DRN-2878390
The complaint
Mr N has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Advantage Gold account.
Mr N has given a number of reasons why he says the account was mis-sold. These include 
that his account was upgraded to the Advantage Gold account without his knowledge. He 
also says that he was told he wouldnt be eligible for a free account and he had to get a fee-
paying one. He also says he wasnt told of any alternative fee-free accounts and was told he 
had to get the account to take out a loan/overdraft/mortgage.
What happened
Mr Ns account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee-paying Advantage Gold account 10 March 2009
Account rebranded as a Select Platinum account July 2015
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that the Advantage 
Gold account had been mis-sold. 
Mr N disagreed and so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ns complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think NatWest mis-sold the packaged account to Mr N.
Id like to explain why I think thats the case.
At this point, it may help for me to explain that where matters are in dispute, as they are 
here, I have to make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened 
based on everything that is available. Therefore when considering the reasons why Mr N 
says the account was mis-sold, I have to consider what he says and his recollections of the 
sale, alongside all of the other evidence that is available. 
Mr N says he was told he had to get the Advantage Gold account to take out a 
loan/overdraft/mortgage. However I cant see that Mr N did apply (either successfully or 
unsuccessfully) for a loan, overdraft or mortgage shortly after he opened the Advantage 
Gold account or indeed at any point in the years that he held the Advantage Gold account. 
Therefore it seems unlikely that he agreed to the Advantage Gold account because he was 
led to believe it was his only way to obtain those products.
Mr N has also said that he was ineligible for a fee-free account and that the Advantage Gold 
account was the only option presented to him. But I can see that Mr N opened a fee-free 
Step account at the same time as the Advantage Gold account. So Mr N was clearly aware 
that alternative fee-free accounts were available through NatWest and that they were an 
option available to him at the time. 
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr N said that he was told that he had to agree 
to the Advantage Gold account to set up Direct Debits and Standing Orders. However, from 
what I know about the Step account at the time, it did allow Standing Orders and Direct 
Debits to be set up. So I find it unlikely that he was told he couldnt set up these payments 
when they were both supported by the Step account. 
I note that when Mr N initially complained, he said that he couldnt remember how the 
account had been sold to him and had said that the account had been sold without his 
knowledge. This suggests that Mr N didnt remember agreeing to the account at all - which is 
understandable as it did take place many years ago. But this does leave me with some 
doubts about the accuracy of what he is now able to recall about the sale.
Therefore, when taking everything into account. I am unable to conclude that its more likely 
than not that Mr N was mis-led into thinking that fee-free accounts werent available or that 
he had to have the fee-paying Advantage Gold account to obtain a 
loan/overdraft/mortgage. So overall, I think Mr N was likely to have been given a fair choice 
and that he agreed to the Advantage Gold account knowing that it was optional and that fee-
free accounts were also available if he didnt want to pay for one.
Mr N says the Advantage Gold account was recommended to him. Whilst I dont doubt that 
the features of the account wouldve been discussed with Mr N, I cant see anything to 
suggest that NatWest assessed Mr Ns insurance needs or recommended the Advantage 
Gold account because it met his particular insurance needs. So I think the account was sold 
on a non-advised basis. This means that NatWest did not have to check if the insurance 
benefits met his needs. But it did still have to give Mr N important information about the 
account, so that he could decide for himself whether it was worth having.
NatWest has provided a copy of the application form that Mr N signed when he agreed to the 
Advantage Gold account. And it says that Mr N was provided with a copy of the Insurance 
policies summaries and the insurance key facts document. So I think its likely that Mr N was 
given information about the insurance products during the sale. After all, by explaining what 
insurance benefits the account came with, it wouldve made the account seem more 
attractive.
NatWest has provided us with evidence to show that Mr N registered and claimed under the 
mobile phone insurance. Mr N disputes the evidence that NatWest has provided. He says 
that he only claimed once on the policy. But even if I just accept what Mr N says, that still 
shows that he was aware of the mobile phone insurance that came with the account and that 
he knew how to go about making a claim. So I think that Mr N was given at least some of the 
important information about the account during the sale. And Ive seen nothing about Mr Ns 
circumstances at the time that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, 
had he been given more information about the account and associated benefits.
So, taking everything into account, I am unable to conclude that Mr Ns Advantage Gold 
account was mis-sold. I understand that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr N may 
now feel that the account has been poor value for money, and he has had little benefit from 
having it. But that doesnt mean that it was wrong or unreasonable for NatWest to have sold 
it to him when it did.I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr N, as I can see he feels very strongly about 
this matter. But I cant simply take what Mr N has said on its own, because as mentioned 
above, I must weigh his testimony up against all of the other evidence that has been 
provided. And having weighed everything up, I am unable to conclude that his account was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman