DRN-4388837
Complaint
Mr N is unhappy that CPS Transfers Limited didnt do more to protect him when he fell victim 
to a scam. Mr N has brought this complaint with the assistance of a professional 
representative, but for simplicitys sake Ive referred only to Mr N in the text of this decision.
Background
In late 2020, Mr N fell victim to an investment scam. He was cold called by someone who 
purported to offer advice on investment opportunities. That person persuaded Mr N to place 
his money into two separate investments.  Unfortunately, the person who had contacted him 
wasnt a legitimate investment advisor at all, but a fraudster.
He was told he needed to create an account with CPS Transfers. He was persuaded to 
deposit his funds into this account. Those funds were then converted into cryptocurrency 
which was held in his e-wallet with another business, Cryptopay. In total, Mr N transferred 
£29,675 into his CPS Tranfers account and on to his e-wallet. This took place across several 
payments between 22 December 2020 and 18 February 2021.
He complained to CPS Transfers that it shouldve done more to protect him from the scam. It 
didnt respond to the complaint in time and so Mr N referred his complaint to this service. It 
was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She noted that CPS Transfers Ltd 
needed to have systems in place to detect unusual or out of character activity that might 
have been connected with fraud. However, she wasnt persuaded that it wouldve had 
reasonable grounds for intervening in connection with any of these individual payments. She 
therefore didnt think it had done anything wrong in processing Mr Ns payments.
Mr N disagreed with the Investigators view. He argued that:
- Several payments should have been concerning from the firms perspective. In 
particular, he highlighted the second payment he made which was for £13,400.
- He pointed out that the period over which the scam took place was two months  this 
meant that the payments were made in a relatively condensed period of time and this 
ought to have been a cause for concern.
- The position of CPS as a business that specifically provides services allowing 
customers to purchase cryptocurrency means it shouldve been more mindful of the 
risks posed by cryptocurrency scams.
Because Mr N disagreed with the Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. Good industry practice required that firms be on the lookout for payments 
that were out of character or unusual to the extent that they might have indicated a fraud 
risk. On spotting such a payment, Id expect it to intervene in a manner proportionate to the 
risk identified.
We now know that Mr N had been targeted by a scammer. However, the question I have to 
consider is whether that risk ought to have been apparent to CPS Transfers at any point 
during the period in which the scam took place and how it shouldve responded. Ive 
considered that question carefully, and, while I know it will be hugely disappointing to Mr N, 
Im afraid I agree with the Investigators conclusions. 
Its important to bear in mind that this was a specialist account  as far as I understand it, it 
can only be used to either purchase cryptocurrency or receive the proceeds of 
cryptocurrency sales. As a result, the fact that Mr N was investing money in cryptocurrency 
was therefore not a particularly helpful indicator of fraud risk. I also need to consider the fact 
that these purchases of cryptocurrency from a CPS Transfers account were, in effect, 
transfers between two accounts under Mr Ns control  which meant that any risk would be 
less apparent. In addition, Mr N opened the account for the purpose of making these 
investments. That meant CPS didnt have any historic data to use as a basis for comparison 
when deciding whether specific activity on the account was unusual or out of character.
It would be an onerous requirement to expect CPS Transfers to question every customer 
purchasing cryptocurrency  that would mean it raising specific queries with every one of its 
customers about the wider circumstances of each individual payment. I would expect it to 
take additional steps where it had compelling grounds to believe that a customer was at risk 
of financial harm due to fraud. However, although Mr N made one sizeable payment here 
(the £13,400 payment on 24 December 2020), I dont think the value of that payment alone 
is enough for it to have had reasonable grounds to think there was a significant increase in 
the risk of fraud.
I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the fact that Mr N has fallen victim to a cruel 
and cynical scam. I have a great deal of sympathy for him and the position hes found 
himself in. However, my role is limited to looking at the actions and inactions of CPS 
Transfers and Im satisfied it didnt do anything wrong in processing these payments.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman