DRN-3431418
The complaint
Mr W complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) unfairly charged him
for excess mileage and for damage after he took the decision to voluntary terminate a hire
purchase agreement (in respect of a car) in his name.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr W acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement from
BMWFS. The cash price of the car was £16,987.00 and it was approximately three years old 
with 39,606 miles on the odometer.
The total repayable under the agreement was £20,400.03. Mr W was required to make 47 
monthly payments of £265.44 and there was a final optional payment of £7,924.35 if he 
wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement.
The agreement set out that Mr W had the right to terminate the agreement at any time
before the final payment was due. In doing so, BMWFS would be entitled to the return of the
car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. The agreement set out this
was £10,202.02.
In May 2021 Mr W chose to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early. In 
June 2021, after Mr W had handed the car back, BMWFS charged him £1,115.42 for excess 
mileage and £434.00 for damage  a total of £1,549.42.
The agreement set out that Mr W could terminate the agreement early by returning the car
and by paying:
any arrears and any other sums which have become payable under the agreement
before the termination (including any excess mileage charge)
the amount (if any) by which one-half of the total amount payable exceeds the 
aggregate of the advance payment and repayments paid
compensation for damage to the car that is deemed beyond fair wear and tear
The agreement also set out that Mr W had an annual mileage allowance of 8,000 and a
total mileage allowance of 71,606 (inclusive of 39,606 miles on the odometer at the time of 
acquisition). It said that if he exceeded this allowance BMWFS could charge him 5.64 pence 
for every mile that he exceeded the allowance by. It said that in the event he terminated the 
agreement early, the mileage allowance would be pro-rated for the time the car was on hire.
Mr W didnt think the £1,115.42 excess mileage charge and £384.00 of the damage charge 
(£434.00 less £50.00) was enforceable so referred the matter to our service for investigation. 
Mr W paid BMWFS £50.00 of the damage charge he accepted was enforceable in 
July 2021.
After paying the above £50.00  reducing his total liability to £1,499.42  Mr W entered into a 
payment arrangement with BMWFS to pay it £30.00 a month commencing September 2021. 
This meant that by July 2022 Mr W had a debt recorded in BMWFS books of £1,169.42 
(£1,499.42 less £330.00 [11 monthly payments of £30.00]).
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld in part.
He was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess mileage charge correctly in line
with the terms of the hire purchase agreement and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
He also found that the terms of the agreement were clear around the possibility of an
excess mileage charge being payable on voluntary termination. 
In summary, he said:
S99 of the CCA sets out the right for a consumer to terminate a hire purchase
agreement early and S100 sets out what liabilities a consumer has on termination.
In brief, on termination a consumer is liable to pay at least half of the total price of
the agreement. Total price is defined by S189 of the CCA as the total sum payable
under the hire purchase agreement. It doesnt include charges for items that are
payable as compensation for breach of an agreement. This means that any charges
for breaches of the agreement are in addition to any liability for termination.
S99 sets out that any liabilities that the consumer accrued prior to termination arent
to be affected by the termination.
The hire purchase agreement set out that the excess mileage charges will accrue
immediately prior to termination. The term in Mr Ws agreement was clear that the
charge accrued before termination and was therefore not affected by the termination.
The terms of the agreement dont set out that exceeding the mileage allowance is a
breach of the agreement. The excess mileage charges must therefore be included in
the total price of the agreement.
The mileage charge therefore accrued prior to termination and counted towards the
total price of the agreement. Mr Ws accrued liability under S100 therefore included
paying an additional amount of £1,115.42.
The credit agreement set out clearly the terms surrounding when excess mileage
would be charged, when it would accrue, and how much it would cost.
The agreement made it clear that this charge would be payable on voluntary
termination of the agreement if any pro-rated mileage allowance had been exceeded.
When considering all the terms of the agreement as a whole, he was satisfied it was
made clear and not misleading about when an excess mileage charge could be
applied and for how much. He was therefore satisfied it was fair and reasonable for
BMWFS to charge the additional amount.When the car was collected, by an agent of BMWFS, it was inspected with Mr W present. 
The report produced following this inspection noted the following damage and charges (net 
of VAT):
scratched LHF wheel £68.00
paint chips on LHF door £40.00
rust on LHR inner door shut £45.00
scratched boot lid £106.00 
scratched RHR door window trim £29.00
scratched RH sill £106.00
paint chips on RHF door £40.00
total invoiced to Mr W £434.00
The investigator considered the charges invoiced to Mr W to decide if they were fair and 
reasonable given that the car was approximately seven years old when returned in 2021 
(with an odometer reading of 88,050) and approximately three years old when first acquired 
by Mr W in 2017 (with an odometer reading of 39,606).
Having done so he came to the view that BMWFS could fairly and reasonably charge for the 
following:
scratched LHF wheel £68.00
rust on LHR inner door shut £45.00
scratched RH sill £106.00
total £219.00
but not the following:
paint chips on LHF door £40.00
scratched boot lid £106.00 
scratched RHR door window trim £29.00
paint chips on RHF door £40.00
total £215.00
BMWFS responded to say it accepted the investigators view and therefore it would reduce 
the sum it was seeking from Mr W (for damage) to £219.00 (from £434.00).
Mr W responded to say that to a certain extent he understood the excess mileage charge 
was payable by him, but not the reduced damage charge given the age of the car when it 
was returned.
The investigator considered Mr Ws response to his view but wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In paying his monthly rentals to BMWFS, the hire purchase agreement allowed Mr W use of 
the car for the duration of the agreement. He also had the option to purchase the car outright 
at the end of the agreement in exchange for the final payment of £7,924.35. While Mr W was 
entitled to use the car, that use was subject to certain conditions, such as maintaining and 
taking care of the car and only driving a maximum mileage each year and overall, throughout 
the lifetime of the agreement. The agreement set out what would happen should Mr W not 
meet those requirements.
Mr W exercised his right to voluntarily terminate the agreement. In some instances, voluntary
termination allows the hirer to simply hand back the car without having to pay anything more.
But this is dependent on, amongst other things, how much has been paid to the agreement,
whether there are arrears to be paid, the condition of the car and whether any excess
mileage or other charges are due.
In this case Mr W accepts that he was required to pay at least £10,202.02 to voluntary
terminate the agreement. But he disputes the excess mileage charge of £1,115.42 that has
been added on top of this figure.
The CCA sets out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate their hire purchase
agreements and the liability that is due on termination. The termination your rights section of
Mr Ws hire purchase agreement also refers to the liability that is due on termination and in
his case, that was £10,200.02. Various sections of the agreement Mr W had with BMWFS
also referred to the liability on early termination, including where excess mileage, damage
charges or other charges may increase the final liability.
Whether or not its fair for a lender to apply the charge will be unique to every case, as it will
depend on the terms of the agreement that has been entered into. In other words, what Ive
to decide is has the agreement been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for
excess mileage without contravening what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary
termination? In Mr Ws specific case, I think it has. Ill explain why.
As explained by the investigator, S99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to
termination arent affected by the termination. What this means is that Mr W is liable to pay
any charges which have built up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these
charges are in addition to the other liability for early termination.
The first page of Mr Ws hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Excess Mileage
Charges. This section sets out the mileage allowance and what charges will apply if that
mileage is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early the mileage allowance
will be reduced to reflect the shorter period of hire and that your obligation to pay any
excess mileage charge will accrue immediately prior to termination. Im satisfied Mr Ws
agreement is worded clearly in setting out when excess mileage charges accrue.The agreement also has a section headed Termination: your rights. This section contains
specific wording which BMWFS were required to include in the agreement, and in summary
sets out that so long as Mr W has paid at least half the total amount payable under the
agreement, he will not have to pay any more. Ive thought about whether this conflicts with
the rest of the terms of the agreement, specifically those that explain charges for exceeding
the mileage might apply.
Having read all of the terms of the agreement as a whole, I dont think the agreement is
either unclear or misleading concerning the charges for excess mileage. I think it explains
that the excess mileage charge can be applied in addition to other charges for voluntary
termination. I dont therefore consider that the way this specific agreement has been
constructed has prejudiced Mr W.
Im also satisfied that any excess mileage charge that would be applicable under this
agreement will have accrued prior to termination. It follows that Mr W is liable to pay the
excess mileage charge and that this is consistent with what is allowed to be charged under
S99 of the CCA.
So overall, Im not persuaded BMWFS has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr W in
seeking from him £1,115.42 in respect of excess mileage.
I note that Mr W submits that immediately prior to acquiring the car on finance with BMWFS, 
he was advised that if he financed any replacement car with BMWFS then there would be no 
excess mileage charge payable on the car.
Now I accept I cant say for certain Mr W wasnt advised what he says he was, but Mr Ws 
submission in this respect isnt supported by the documentation that has been provided to 
our service, much of which has been signed. Therefore, Im not persuaded it would be 
appropriate for me to direct BMWFS to waive the excess mileage charge for this reason.
The investigator came to the view that BMWFS could fairly and reasonably charge Mr W for 
the following:
scratched LHF wheel £68.00
rust on LHR inner door shut £45.00
scratched RH sill £106.00
total £219.00
Having had regard to the inspection report produced by BMWFS agent and the various 
photographs that have been provided Im satisfied, like the investigator, that BMWFS can 
reasonably charge Mr W for the above damage and that in all the circumstances £219.00 
represents a fair and reasonable sum for this damage. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I can confirm that when coming to this conclusion I took a 
pragmatic approach to what constitutes fair wear and tear given the age of the car both 
when it was returned and when it was first acquired rather than applying (without question) 
guidelines published by one or more third party organisations.
I note that Mr W says that a third party (in the trade) said the car was in good condition for its 
age. But this isnt, in itself, sufficient for me to conclude that BMWFS should have to waive 
the reduced charge of £219.00. I appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed by my findings but in summary Im satisfied that 
BMWFS can (for the reasons given above) fairly and reasonably hold him liable for 
£1,115.42 in respect of excess mileage and £219.00 in respect of damage.
My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited must reduce the sum its 
seeking from Mr W (in respect of damage) by £215.00 to £219.00 (from £434.00) and ensure 
this reduction is fairly and accurately reflected in anything that its reporting to credit 
reference agencies. But it need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman