DRN-2970437
The complaint
Mr I complains about OANDA Europe Limited (the business) applying a margin closeout on 
the positions he had opened which caused him a loss.
What happened
Your text here The business provides an online trading platform (fxTrade) and access to 
other platforms through which clients can trade leveraged products  Contracts for 
Differences (CFD) and spread bets  in various underlying instruments on an execution only 
basis.
Mr I opened a trading account with the business in April 2020 and traded as a retail client. 
He made several trades in S&P 500 and held a position amounting to 40 units as of 21 
September 2020 when his margin fell below the margin required and the business closed his 
position at a loss. This led him to complain to the business.  
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter (FRL) to Mr I, in 
summary, it said the following:
The margin close out was in respect of a sell order for 40 units in SPX500/USD 
which was filled on 21 September 2020 at 02:18:34PM UTC at a price of 3245.30 
USD which resulted in a loss of 10,270.50USD.
The margin closeout was initiated correctly as the available margin dropped below 
the required 50% margin requirement.
The margin requirements are governed by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
At the time of margin closeout, the position closed was the only one open.
When multiple positions are running the fxTrade platform will automatically initiate a 
margin closeout whereby all tradeable open positions in the account are 
automatically closed.
It would not amend leverage on behalf of a client.
It has investigated the issue he was having with logging into the platform and this 
isnt the result of a wider issue affecting its servers. Its terms and conditions make 
clear it is for him to ensure he can access the platform.
The fact the candlestick chart he is looking at is approaching the take profit order he 
has placed but the order isnt triggered may be due to the chart he is viewing. For the 
order to execute the applicable market price must meet the price he has specified.
It will not reinstate positions that have undergone correct margin closeout and if he is 
not satisfied with the service, he can find a broker that he thinks is more suitable.
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In short, he found the following:
There was a regulatory requirement that the business close open positions on 
speculative investments when the margin requirement fell below 50%.
The businesss terms and conditions required clients to maintain sufficient funds to 
meet the margin requirement on open positions this being 50% of the margin needed 
to place the trade.
Once the margin fell below 50% of the margin requirement the business was obliged 
to close the position.
The business cant be held responsible for Mr Is inability to access the platform due 
to internet problems.
It was for Mr I to ensure he could access the platform and the business had no 
obligation to monitor and manage his account.
Mr Is concern over the order in which the positions was closed is noted but he only 
had one position in S&P 500.
Once the position was closed it couldnt be reinstated.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary he made the following points:
The business has not acted in accordance with the terms and conditions contrary to 
what the investigator has said.
He has funded his account in two similar situations.
The service is internet based and the only way to fund the account is to log in which 
he tried but the business seems to have blocked him.
His account had sufficient money, but the market price moved aggressively for no 
reason and this makes him question about how the business has handled his orders 
and how conflicts of interest have been avoided.
On many occasions where the price of the financial instruments has resulted in his 
positions being closed he has asked for these to be reinstated but this has been 
refused which proves the businesss bad intentions and failure to act in the best 
interest of the client.
There were six or seven positions and if it had closed only one of them closing all 
positions could have been avoided.
The regulator requires firms to protect client money and by closing out all the 
positions that isnt what the business did.
He had sufficient funds and still had 3000 USD or more in his account at closure.
The terms refers to closing one or more open positions not all simultaneously.
The business should have closed out the position with least risk first and given time 
for him to fund the account.
The business should have had alternative features in place to protect the client such 
as an offline money wallet or auto leverage change.
If the concern is the margin, why didnt they let him reinstate and fund his account.
How can the investigator confirm the problem with access to the platform wasnt a 
business server issue if he hasnt investigated this himself?
He thought it could be the network and internet connection issues but because of the 
refusal to let him reinstate and fund his account he is now accusing the business of 
blocking him.
Whether it was due to internet issues or the business blocking him he had sufficient 
money in his account and tried to fund the account. If the business isnt liable, then 
neither is he and it should give him his money back.
The positions werent correctly closed, and it is possible to reinstate them. 
The investigator responded to the further points raised by Mr I and said his view hadnt 
changed. He said Mr I had one position made up of six trades in the same instrument and 
this was his only open position at the time it was closed. He said he had seen no evidence 
that the business had blocked Mr Is access to his account as he had suggested and that it 
had said there were no problems with its servers.The investigator said that the maintenance margin amounted to 3501.92 USD and that the 
balance on Mr Is account at the time his position was closed was only 3235.89 USD  so 
below the margin required.
Mr I provided a further response and in summary made the following main points:
The investigator hadnt addressed the points he made previously.
He didnt have one position but seven different positions amounting to 44 units in 
S&P 500 one of which he managed to close reducing his positions from seven to six 
and the remaining units to 40.
He didnt agree that the businesss margin close out rules meant that where there 
were multiple positions are running the platform will automatically initiate a margin 
close out with all open positions being closed.
If the business do close all positions on margin breach this is wrong and against what 
all other brokers do.
The business should have reduced the overall position incrementally or firstly closed 
out one of several positions to provide some breathing room.
The business should have additional features in place in the platform to protect 
clients if they cant log into their account, like other brokers do.
If the platform does automatically close positions this is a mistake in the system that 
the business needs to fix.
The proof that the business blocked access is that he was not able to access his 
account to fund it and it then closed all his positions and then refused to reinstate 
these as he requested.
It is the investigators responsibility to seek evidence and investigate, not just rely on 
what the business had said.
As Mr I didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear what my role is. I need to consider the evidence provided 
by the parties and relevant law, regulation, and best industry practice - although I am not 
bound by this  and come to a decision that is fair and reasonable.
It is for me to decide what weight to give to any piece of evidence and where there is a 
dispute between the parties on any particular fact or issue I will make findings on a balance 
of probabilities  what is more likely than not.
In reaching a fair and reasonable decision I will concentrate on what I consider to be the 
main issue/s in the complaint. I will not necessarily address every issue raised by a party 
and I am not required to do so.
I understand why Mr I feels strongly about this matter, given the reason he has suffered a 
loss isnt because he didnt have the funds available to put into his account to avoid margin 
closeout, but because he wasnt able to access his account to put more funds in or take any 
other action in relation to his margin. However, having considered the evidence, I agree with 
the investigator that the business did nothing wrong and I am not going to uphold this 
complaint for reasons I explain below.
I have firstly considered whether the business should have applied margin closeout. The rules under which the business operate are set out in the Handbook of the FCA, in the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
COBS 22.5.13R sets out margin close out requirements that firms must apply for retail 
clients trading restricted speculative investments. In short, the rule requires firms to close a 
retail clients open position(s) where their net equity falls below 50% of the margin 
requirement.
COBS 22.5.11R sets out different margin requirements  so for a trade where the underlying 
asset is a major stock market index, minor foreign exchange pair or gold the margin 
requirement is 5% of the value of exposure the trade provides and that is the margin that the 
business required Mr I to have on opening a trade in S&P500. 
I have also considered the terms of business that applied to Mr Is account at the time. I set 
out below the key paragraphs of the terms:
6.8 We may perform Margin Closeout if the market moves against you, and/or to comply 
with Applicable Law, as detailed further in paragraph 9. A margin closeout will result 
in us closing some or all of your Open Positions. This would realise any losses or 
gains on your Open Positions. We do not need to give you advance notice or time to 
respond to Margin Closeout. This is detailed further in paragraph 9 below.
9.3 In order to keep a position open, you are required to maintain a minimum amount of 
money in your Account, this is known as Margin Requirement.
9.4 You must maintain sufficient funds in your Account at all times to meet the Margin 
Requirement on your Open Positions(s). The Margin Requirement is 50% of the 
Margin required to open your positions.
9.7 We may use any money we hold on your behalf, or close out some or all of your 
Open Positions, in order to meet a Margin Call, including on other sub-accounts.
9.8.We will close out one or more of your Open Positions when you do not have 
sufficient funds available on your Account to cover the Margin Requirements, ie: the 
available funds fall to below 50% of the Margin needed to open your Positions
From the information available the business closed his position in S&P 500 when the funds 
in his account fell below 50% of the required margin. This was in line both with its regulatory 
obligation and its own terms of business as set out above. So, the business did nothing 
wrong with closing Mr Is position when it did.
I note that Mr I has argued that he didnt have one position in S&P500 at the time of margin 
closure. He has referred to having made seven separate trades in S&P 500 and closing one 
of these leaving six open positions which were then closed out. He has raised this because 
he argues that the business shouldnt have closed all the positions in one go.
I think there is some confusion over the meaning of trades and positions with the terms 
often being used interchangeably. I accept that Mr I made six different trades in S&P 500, 
but I am not satisfied this means he had six open positions. 
I note that paragraph 10.11 of the terms of business states:
We may establish trading and leverage limits on your Account at our sole discretion, or to 
comply with Applicable Law, with or without notice. Such limits may include, but are not 
limited to.limits on the size of any Transaction or series of Transactions which together create a large size Open Position (my emphasis).
I think this shows that one position can be made up of a series of transactions and I think 
that was the case with Mr Is six trades in S&P 500. I think he had one sell position in S&P 
500 amounting to 40 units. I think the trades he made simply increased the size of his 
position. As I think there was only one position there is no issue about the business closing 
this when the margin fell below the required amount.
I note that Mr I said he closed one of the trades that he made which amounted to four units. I 
am not clear on whether he is suggesting this is evidence that the individual trades were 
separate positions but if he is, I dont agree. There was nothing preventing him from 
reducing the size of his overall position by selling units in the same way he could increase 
the size of his position by purchasing more units.
I note the margin rules includes the following information about strategies to avoid margin 
close out:
Incrementally reduce the size of your positions as you get close to margin closeout. fxTrade 
allows you to trade in arbitrary units, as opposed to fixed lots, which makes this simple to 
do.
In the circumstances I dont think the fact that Mr I sold four units before margin closeout is 
evidence that he had more than one position.
However, I have in any event considered whether the business would have done anything 
wrong if the six trades Mr I made in S&P 500 were treated as six separate positions. He 
argues that the terms and conditions dont entitle the business to close all open positions in 
one go. 
I acknowledge that paragraph 6.8 of the terms refers to closing some or all of your open 
positions and paragraph 9.8 in effect says the same. There is therefore an indication in the 
terms that the business could choose to close only some positions. However, it also allows 
that they can close all open positions. Furthermore, Margin Closeout is defined in the terms 
of business in the following terms:
means the automatic closing of all your Open Positions by the Trading Platform, which 
occurs when the amount in your Account doesnt meet the Margin Requirement.
So, it seems in practice margin closeout will involve all open positions being closed out. 
Given the definition of margin closeout and the fact that paragraph 6.8 and 9.8 both allow 
for all positions to be closed, I dont think that the business would have done anything wrong 
in closing six open positions in any event. 
I note Mr I argues that the positions shouldnt have been closed simultaneously but I think 
the definition of margin closeout indicates this is what will happen automatically and there is 
nothing in the terms of business which suggests margin closeout of all positions cant be 
simultaneous.
Mr I has suggested that the business has failed to adhere to its obligations relating to best 
execution in relation to his trades. He has referred to the provisions of COBS 11.2A in this 
regard. The best execution rules dont prevent firms from closing out positions for margin 
breach. The business did nothing wrong in closing out Mr Is position when his margin fell 
below what was required. 
If there had been evidence to suggest that the price on close out was less than should have been applied then it could be argued that the busines did something wrong, but I have seen 
no such evidence.
Mr I has suggested that the business should have had features to protect clients that other 
brokers provide. He has referred to an offline money wallet or auto leverage change as 
examples. However, the business doesnt provide such options to clients, and isnt required 
to do so. Mr I didnt have to use the businesss service, he chose to do so. In doing so he 
accepted the basis on which the service was provided and cant then complain what he 
agreed to didnt include what he wanted. 
Mr I says he tried to fund his account but was unable to access the platform. When the 
investigator asked him about this, he said he was at a funeral and the internet wasnt good. 
The business confirmed in its FRL that it investigated whether there was any issue with its 
servers and no problem was identified.
However, in response to the investigators opinion Mr I suggested that the business had 
blocked him from accessing his account. From what he has said he has now suggested this 
because he thinks the businesss refusal to reinstate his positions and allow him to fund his 
account indicates it deliberately blocked his access in the first place. He has provided no 
evidence to support what he has now suggested happened. 
There is no evidence to suggest that the business deliberately blocked access to the 
account. I note Mr I suggested this is something we needed to investigate but that isnt part 
of our role. What I must do is consider the evidence provided by the parties and make a fair 
and reasonable decision based on that evidence.
Mr I originally suggested that he had poor internet access, and this is why he couldnt access 
his account. I think he is unlikely to have put forward this explanation by mistake and this 
also ties in with the businesss enquiries which identified no issue with its servers. I dont 
think there is any basis to Mr Is subsequent suggestion that the business blocked access. In 
short, I think it is more likely than not that his inability to access his account was because he 
had a poor internet connection at the time as he originally indicated. 
Mr I has also argued that as he isnt responsible for his inability to access his account the 
business should repay him the money. He is suggesting that as the terms of business 
include provisions which mean the business wont be liable for events beyond its control the 
same should apply to him. 
Such provisions are quite normal in agreements between firms and clients. However, the 
relevant terms only apply to the business not to him and there is no basis for me finding that 
because he wasnt responsible for not being able to access his account that the business 
should repay the loses to him. 
In short, it doesnt matter whether he was unable to access his account through some fault 
of his own or because of matters beyond his control. It was his responsibility, at all times, to 
ensure he had sufficient margin and as such he is liable for the loses arising on margin 
closeout.
There is also no basis for finding that the business should have reinstated his positions after 
margin closeout simply because he has the funds available. The business has not acted 
unreasonably in refusing to reinstate the positions given the terms of business dont require 
it to do so. The only circumstance I think it would be reasonable to ask it to do this would be 
where it has wrongly applied the margin closeout in the first place  which isnt the case 
here.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman