DRN-3805940
The complaint
Mr O complains about the actions of TSB Bank plc when he was the victim of a scam in 
which his money was sent to one of its customers accounts. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So I will keep my 
summary of the background brief and focus on the reasons for my decision. 
Between May 2019 and August 2019 Mr O made six payments totalling £60,000 from his 
bank account with N to an account held with TSB Bank. At the time he believed the 
payments were towards an investment through a genuine accountancy firm. Mr O says he 
later learned the accountancy firm was bogus; the representative of the firm had used a 
fictitious name; and his money had been sent to an unknown third-party account. Mr O 
would like TSB Bank to refund his loss.
Ive issued a separate decision setting out which aspects of Mr Os complaint we can  and 
cant  look into. Now that the jurisdiction matter has been decided, Ill share below what I 
think about the aspects of Mr Os complaint we do have the power to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear Mr O has been the victim of a scam. I can see he acted in good faith 
and can appreciate why it would feel unfair to him that he should bear the loss. But having 
thought very carefully about everything, Ive come to the same outcome as our Investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. Understandably this will be a very disappointing outcome 
for Mr O, so I will explain why.
I note Mr O feels its TSB Banks responsibility to return/refund his money as it was moved to 
an account held with TSB Bank by mistake. I can, of course see, given the funds credited 
an unknown third-party account and not the beneficiary Mr O thought the payments had 
been sent to, why he would refer to the payments as a mistake. But I think its important for 
me to start by explaining that under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), which 
are the relevant regulations in place here, these payments are considered authorised. I say 
this because Mr O provided the account details (which hed been given by the fraudster) to N 
and asked it to make the payments. 
Also, an account that is later found to have been utilised fraudulently doesnt automatically 
entitle any victims who were tricked into sending funds to that account to a refund of their 
losses. I could only direct TSB Bank to refund Mr Os loss if Im satisfied (in relation to 
matters within my jurisdiction) it reasonably failed to prevent it or did something wrong where 
it would be fair to ask it to provide a refund.
So with that in mind Ive carefully reviewed the operation of the account and what was 
known to TSB Bank at the time Mr Os payments were received and spent. Im satisfied from 
what Ive seen that the account activity would not have given TSB Bank cause for concern  
so I cant fairly say that it couldve prevented Mr Os loss.
I appreciate Mr O feels strongly that hed provided in his payment instructions the 
beneficiarys name (the accountancy firm) and believes that TSB Bank should have checked 
this matched the accountholders name before crediting the account. And by not doing so, it 
has missed an opportunity to prevent his loss. However, at the time Mr Os payments were 
made, there was no requirement on receipt of a payment for the recipient bank to check 
whether the name on an account matched the named payee. If the funds were credited to 
the specified account number and sort-code (or IBAN) the payment was considered to have 
been executed correctly. Im satisfied that was the case here. So likewise, I cant fairly say 
that TSB Bank couldve prevented Mr Os loss in this way.
Mr O didnt report the payments as fraudulent until 2021. As a significant amount of time had 
passed between the payment dates and the reporting of these as fraudulent, it's not 
surprising that no funds remained which could be returned. I have reviewed the information 
provided by TSB Bank and Im satisfied the money Mr O had transferred to the beneficiary 
account had been spent before it received notification of fraud. So Im satisfied that 
TSB Banks response to N was appropriate and it correctly advised no funds remained that 
could be returned. I dont think there were any failings at this point by TSB Bank that 
impacted the recovery of Mr Os money.
And finally, I can see Mr O asked TSB Bank to provide him with details of the beneficiary 
accountholder, and if it couldnt (due to data protection) he asked if it could send this to the 
Police and/or Action Fraud. But in these circumstances, there is no obligation, nor a 
requirement, on TSB Bank to do so. To explain TSB Bank are required to comply with 
privacy laws. If it does not have a lawful basis for holding and processing personal data 
(which includes disclosing that information to a third party) it would be in breach of those 
laws. Here, there isnt an exemption or an enactment which would allow TSB Bank to share 
a third-partys personal data with Mr O directly. Further TSB Bank themselves havent been 
a victim of crime, Mr O has. So it would be for Mr O to report matters to the Police, this isnt 
something Id expect TSB Bank to have done. I am however confident that TSB Bank would 
share any relevant information with the Police, upon a request from them to do so.
Despite my natural sympathy for the position this leaves Mr O in, taking all the above into 
consideration I dont think TSB Bank couldve prevented Mr Os loss. And Im satisfied it did 
all it reasonably could to assist in the recovery of the funds. It follows that I cant fairly tell 
TSB Bank to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman