DRN-1622325
 
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a monthly premium mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mrs V was sold a MPPI policy in 1999 during a meeting. The MPPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 24 months per claim if Mrs V was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Vs complaint should be upheld. Mrs V didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Vs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Vs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs V was eligible under the policy. Based on Mrs Vs 
age, employment and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Mrs V was 
eligible under the policy at the time of the sale.
BoS had to make it clear to Mrs V that the MPPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to Mrs Vs account. Mrs V says that it wasnt made clear to her that 
the policy was optional and that she was led to believe she had to have it. BoS disagree.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mrs V and 
BoS have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form and a separate MPPI 
application form. The mortgage application form had a separate section for MPPI. Within that 
section were two equally clear options to take or refuse MPPI. I note that the option to take 
MPPI has been selected. And Mrs V also signed separately for it. In addition to this, Mrs V 
completed a separate application form to take MPPI.
So all in all, while I appreciate what Mrs V has told us, I think its more likely that BoS made it 
clear to Mrs V that MPPI was optional and that it was only added to her account because 
she chose to take it out.BoS accept they advised Mrs V to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was suitable 
for Mrs V. I dont know if BoS took all the steps they should have to check if the MPPI was 
suitable for Mrs V but I do think the policy was suitable for Mrs V. I say this because:
 
Mrs V has told us she was entitled to six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from her employer if she was off work sick.But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this and for a longer period of time  potentially for up to 24 months. It 
would also have paid out for the same length of time in addition to any redundancy 
pay Mrs V may have been entitled to.
 
Mrs V doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the policy. 
 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the MPPI itself was unaffordable for Mrs 
V at the time of the sale.
 
Mrs V could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mrs V, BoS also had to give her clear 
information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in 
the policy  so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs V wasnt as clear as it should have been but this 
in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for her.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think BoS mis-sold Mrs V this MPPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Vs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman