DRN-3124512
The complaint
Mr R complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited blocked his U account and havent 
released money held in the account back to him. 
The U account is a pre-paid payment card administered by Wirecard Card Solutions.
What happened
Mr R had a U account.
  
In March 2020, U account blocked Mr Rs account while it carried out a review after three 
payments totalling £7,000 were paid into his account with the reference wedding gift. 
Following this a number of payments were quickly made to various retailers and £2,000 
transferred out to another account. 
As part of the review U account wanted to know more about the three payments  and asked 
Mr R the reason for the payments, who sent him the money and what he spent it on. At the 
time of the review Mr Rs balance was just under £4,000.
Mr R explained that the money had been given to him by a very close friend as he was due 
to get married and hed recently spent money on a new office, which had stalled due to 
Covid. So, his friend was helping him out and using money from his savings. Unhappy with 
Mr Rs explanation, in July 2020, U account wrote to Mr R and told him it was closing his 
account and returning his account balance back to the original source. 
Mr R complained to our service. He said being without his money had made it difficult to 
make ends meet. He said hed had trouble paying his rent and buying food. And hed been 
trying to find out what was happening with his account for more than a year. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Rs complaint and asked him for more information about the 
payments made into his account. He asked Mr R to provide proof of his entitlement to the 
funds. Mr R didnt provide any information but said the money had been given to him as an 
investment for his business.  
The investigator considered Mr Rs explanation, but he didnt think U account had acted 
unfairly when it returned the money to source and closed Mr Rs account.  Mr R disagreed. 
He maintained the money was for an investment in his business and other money had also 
come into his account which was a wedding gift. He said the investigator only looked at one 
side of what had happened and hadnt taken into account what hed said.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Mr R has said he is concerned that at weve not listened to what hes said about 
things. And believes that weve taken sides with the business  in other words that we are 
not impartial. Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is 
to consider what both parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that 
evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint. If Mr R does not agree with our view, 
he does not have to accept it, and if he does not accept this final decision, he will be free to 
continue to pursue his concerns by other means should he wish to do so. I cannot, however, 
advise him on how to go about doing that.
The investigator was right to point out that U account has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict 
customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. And ask a 
customer for information about payments made into an account. The terms and conditions of 
Mr Rs account also permit U account to review an account. 
Having looked at the information U account relied upon, Im satisfied that they were 
complying with their legal and regulatory obligations when they blocked Mr Rs account and 
asked him for information. I say this because the activity on Mr Rs account statements show 
that the three payments were out of character. Mr R hadnt previously received any large 
payments and the account had been dormant (apart from one transaction of £100) since 
Mr R had opened the account in January 2018. So I think the concerns U account had about 
how Mr R was operating his account were reasonable. 
The payments made out of the account also didnt marry up with Mr Rs explanation, for 
instance I cant see any spending related to a wedding. I note too that Mr R has changed his 
explanation regarding the purpose of the payments  initially hes said the money was a 
wedding gift, which is referenced on his statements. But hes also said it was an investment 
for his business. And despite being asked by the investigator, hes not provided any 
evidence to support either explanation. This makes it very difficult for me to place much 
weight on what hes said. 
U account sent the remaining balance of Mr Rs account back to source. This ensures the 
funds are sent back to the correct person. Especially, as in this case U account werent able 
to verify Mr Rs entitlement to the funds. I agree that this was the right action in the 
circumstances. So, I cant say U account has treated Mr R unfairly when it decided not to 
release the funds to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman