DRN-3456757
The complaint
Mr B and Ms F complain that they were mis-sold an Advantage Gold Account (AGA) in 1999 
by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B originally opened the account on his own and Ms F joined the account later.
Mr B and Ms F say that Mr B was told an overdraft facility was only available on fee-paying 
accounts, and he didnt want or need the AGA.
NatWest says Mr B chose to take out the account based on the information it gave him, and 
Mr B and Ms F didnt lose any money through having the account.
Mr B and Ms F have referred to a conversation Mr B had with a NatWest bank manager in 
1999 and say this was the conversation that led Mr B to open the AGA.
I wasnt there, so I cant know what was said. I can only look at the information available 
today to make my decision.
Ive looked at the records NatWest has provided and, while I dont doubt Mr Bs honest 
recollections, I think its more likely than not that his memory of the sale is mistaken. I say 
this because Mr B had a fee free account before the AGA, and he had asked for and been 
given substantial overdrafts with his fee free account. 
Also, fee free accounts with overdrafts were widely advertised and available from many 
banks and financial institutions at the time. So, if Mr B had wanted to either have or continue 
a fee free account with an overdraft and NatWest had said he must have a fee paying 
account, I think its more likely than not that he would have looked elsewhere and found what 
he wanted. 
So, in my view, its more likely than not that Mr B knew he had a choice whether to open the 
AGA and he chose to do so based on the information NatWest gave him.
Ive not seen any evidence that NatWest discussed Mr Bs circumstances with him. And this 
service has seen evidence that NatWest sales at this time were generally non-advised. So, I 
think its more likely than not that was a non-advised sale.
So, NatWest was only required to give Mr B enough information about the AGA to make an 
informed decision.
And I think it did. I say this because Mr B and Ms F made substantial savings on their 
overdraft over the years through having a better interest rate through the AGA, and there is 
nothing I can see that they werent told that would have put them off it. They also later used 
some of the wider benefits such as the mobile phone insurance, so they seemed to have 
been aware of the product details.
Mr B upgraded the account to a Premier Account in 2001 and it migrated to a Black account 
in 2012. By the time of these changes Mr B was an experienced user of packaged bank 
accounts so I think its more likely than not that he knew he had a choice and chose to make 
them. And for the reasons given above I think he had the information he needed to make an 
informed decision on both occasions.
I note as well that NatWests calculation of the benefits Mr B and Ms F received on their 
account show they saved more money over the years on their overdraft than they paid for 
their account. They also used some of the other benefits, so even if I had found in their 
favour, which I havent, they would not have received any redress.
In summary, I think its more likely than not that NatWest didnt do anything wrong when it 
sold the AGA or did the later upgrades. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr B and Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman