DRN-2262564
The complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua defaulted his account and registered the 
default with credit reference agencies without informing him.
What happened
Mr G had a credit card account with Aqua. He says he experienced financial difficulties in 
July 2019 after he had to give up his part-time job. He contacted Aqua. He says it agreed he 
didnt have to make any payments. It told him he could start making payments when he 
could, and no late fees would be applied to his account.
Mr G says he started working again in January 2020 and made a payment to his account. 
When he tried to make a further payment in February, he says he couldnt do this because 
Aqua had defaulted his account and sold it to a third party.
He complained to Aqua. He says he had difficulty getting his complaint logged because it 
wasnt clear who owned the account. 
Aqua investigated his complaint. It said Mr G hadnt made any payments between 4 June 
2019 and 7 January 2020. Because no payments had been made for more than 180 days it 
said it had defaulted the account and sold it to a third party on 28 February 2020. It said this 
was in line with its terms and conditions, policies and procedures. It also said it had issued a 
default notice to Mr G on 23 August 2020.
Mr G says he didnt receive a default notice. And he says Aquas final response letter to him 
(dated 16 April 2020) referred to a default notice dated 23 August 2020 - which was a future 
date. So, he complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said she was satisfied Aqua had sent Mr G 
various letters about his account including a default notice which was dated 23 August 2019 
and a termination letter dated 13 September 2019. Mr G said he hadnt received these, but 
our investigator said she was satisfied they had been sent to him at the correct address. She 
said Aqua wasnt responsible if the letters hadnt been received. 
Our investigator also said shed listened to a call between Mr G and Aqua in November 
2019. She said Aqua made clear to Mr G that although it had agreed he didnt need to make 
any payments, it had told him if the account remained in arrears for 180 days it could default 
and could be sold to a third party. She said Mr G had confirmed during this call that he 
understood.
Having considered everything, our investigator acknowledged that Mr G had experienced 
some frustration and inconvenience as a result of what had happened when he raised his 
complaint. She noted the default notice had been issued in August 2019 and not August 
2020 as stated in Aquas final response letter. But she thought that despite this the complaint 
should not be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed called Aqua in January 2020 when hed made his payment 
and it hadnt told him the account was going to default. He was also adamant he hadnt 
received the default notice or termination letter from Aqua. He wanted the default removed.
Because Mr G didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says he started to experience financial difficulties after his part-time work ended. Its 
not in dispute that he made no payments to Aqua between 5 June 2019 and 6 January 2020. 
Its also not in dispute that during that period Aqua had agreed it didnt require him to make 
any payments. It also stopped charging him interest and other charges.
Ive looked at the letters which Aqua sent to Mr G during this period. There were several 
letters setting out the payment arrangement  which was extended on a number of 
occasions. The payment arrangement was that Mr G would pay £0.00 each month and the 
interest rate during the period of the plan would be 0%.  But although this was described as 
a payment arrangement the letters included additional important information.
The letters stated that, because Mr G was paying less than 1% of the balance, the account 
will continue to be overdue. And regulatory notices would continue to be sent, credit 
reference agencies would be informed and Aqua could also sell the account. So, although 
payments had been suspended, arrears continued to accrue on the account.
Ive also listened to the telephone call between Aqua and Mr G in November 2019. During 
this call Aqua explained it was important that Mr G understood certain points. It explained 
that if the account reached 180 days in arrears there was a risk it could default, and the 
account could be sold. He was also told that in the meantime the arrangement would be 
reported to credit reference agencies. 
This information was also in line with the other notices which Aqua sent to Mr G. He was 
sent a default notice dated 23 August 2019 and a termination letter dated 14 September 
2019. Mr G says he didnt receive these letters. But Aqua has provided us with a copy of its 
records which show that both letters were sent to Mr G and they were correctly addressed. 
So, Im satisfied the letters were sent. And although Mr G says he didnt get the letters, I 
agree with our investigator when she said Aqua cant be held responsible for that.
It is the case that Aqua told Mr G in its final response letter it had sent him a default notice 
dated 23 August 2020. Im satisfied, having considered all the information thats been 
provided, Aqua made a typographical error in its final response letter. But I dont think this 
typographical error alters the fact that the default notice was sent on 23 August 2019.  
I can see Aqua sent Mr G a further letter dated 11 December 2019 which warned him it 
intended to register a default within 28 days. He says he wouldve expected Aqua to tell him 
about its intention to default the account when he spoke to it in January 2020. But Aqua 
hasnt any record of a conversation with Mr G in January 2020 and theres no evidence to 
support what Mr G says about this conversation. 
Im satisfied Aqua sent Mr G a default notice and termination letter on the dates set out 
above. Im also satisfied it told him, during the call in November 2019, the account would be 
defaulted after it went 180 days in arrears. And, it sent him a further warning in December 
2019 to tell him that the default would be registered after 28 days unless the full amount which was outstanding was repaid in full. Although Mr G made a payment on 7 January 
2019 he didnt repay the full amount outstanding.
So, having considered everything here, I agree with our investigator that Aqua didnt do 
anything wrong when it registered the default with credit reference agencies and sold the 
account to a third party. I dont require it to remove the default or take any other action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aqua.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman