DRN-2558225
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received from TSB Bank plc (TSB) in relation to the 
balance in his account. 
What happened
During a call to TSB on 6 October 2020, Mr K was advised that his state pension hadnt 
credited his account. He was concerned about this, so he called the next day to find out if it 
had. It was during this call, that he was made aware that the pension had credited the 
account and that he was incorrectly advised the previous day. Mr K says that during the call 
the advisor made an inappropriate comment about the high balance of his account. Mr K 
doesnt know why this comment was made and says that this has been quite distressing for 
him.  
Mr K raised a complaint with TSB in regard to the incorrect advice that he had received on 6 
October. TSB upheld his complaint and apologised to Mr K. they also awarded him with £20 
compensation to cover any expense, distress and inconvenience that this matter may have 
caused. Mr K accepted the resolution, so TSB closed the complaint.
TSB say that Mr K had contacted them again on 17 October, regarding the comment made 
to him about his high account balance on the call dated 7 October. TSB havent formally 
responded to Mr K regarding this issue, but they have provided us with their comments. TSB 
have said that the reason was most likely to have been for security reasons and to ensure 
that the customer is getting the most from their money.  
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and upheld it. The investigator feels that 
TSB did provide poor customer service in regard to the comment. The investigator asked 
TSB to send written communication that explains the risks of having a high balance in a 
current account. Mr K isnt happy with the view and would like compensation from TSB to 
acknowledge the stress this matter has caused. So, this has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im aware that Mr K is satisfied by the actions taken by TSB in relation to the incorrect 
information they gave to him regarding his pension. As this matter isnt in dispute, I wont 
make a finding on this, I will focus on the remaining issue that is currently in dispute. 
TSB have said that their branch calls arent recorded, so Im unable to verify what was said 
during the call on 7 October 2020. Ive thought very carefully about the information that Ive 
seen from both parties in regard to this. Im inclined to say that TSB could have done more 
on this occasion. 
TSB have said that their member of staff wouldve had Mr Ks best interests at heart, and 
that their staff are expected to ask questions regarding an account. They say this is 
designed to provide added security for their customers and to provide better banking 
facilities. As TSB didnt explain their position more clearly, they have provided poor customer 
service on this occasion. 
Im not persuaded that this warrants any compensation because I dont think it was the 
cause of material distress or inconvenience to Mr K. He appears to know why TSB have 
made this comment. Ive listened to a call between Mr K and our investigator where Mr K 
confirms that TSB have mentioned his account balance and products that may be available 
to him in the past. As TSB havent been able to offer him a better interest rate, he hasnt 
opted for an alternative account. Im satisfied that although the bank could have provided a 
better standard of customer service on this occasion, theres been no real impact on Mr K 
that would warrant compensation. 
Im not expecting TSB to provide Mr K a written explanation for their comment, as Mr K 
doesnt want this, and the reasoning has been explained within this decision. To confirm, 
there are no limitations regarding the balance that Mr K can have in his account. Further, 
should he want advice in managing his money, hes said he knows he can contact TSB 
himself. And in case Mr K isnt aware, he has the option of updating his marketing 
preferences which should limit the extent to which front line staff instigate conversation about 
his balance and alternative products. The bank has said this can be done either online or at 
any local branch.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I agree that TSB Bank plc could have explained their 
position more clearly, but I dont think they need to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman