DRN-2677756
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with what happened when they applied to take out a lifetime 
mortgage with Legal & General Home Finance Limited (L&G). 
Theyre unhappy that L&G said a strip of land had to be registered in order for the mortgage 
to proceed. This led to delays in the application which meant the mortgage offer expired, and 
when a new offer was issued it was at a higher interest rate and didnt have cashback on 
completion.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T applied for a lifetime mortgage on 30 January 2020. They received advice 
from an independent mortgage adviser and applied for a £63,700 mortgage at a fixed 
interest rate of 5.65%. The product was noted to give 2% cashback at completion.
A valuation of their property was carried out, which gave a slightly lower figure than 
Mr and Mrs T had thought.
L&G issued a mortgage offer on 7 February 2020. That was for £59,150 with a fixed interest 
rate of 5.64%. The offer noted cashback of £1,183 would be paid when the mortgage 
completed.
A revised mortgage offer was issued on 10 February 2020, with the only change being the 
fixed interest rate was slightly lower at 5.37%.
L&Gs solicitor received the mortgage offer, and as part of the legal process it ran a title plan 
search to check the land to be charged under the mortgage. That search found a strip of 
unregistered land that was deemed to be a potential issue in the future so L&G wasnt able 
to proceed until that was resolved.
L&Gs solicitor emailed Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor on 13 February 2020 saying We have 
reviewed the title plan and note there is a small strip of unregistered land in between the two 
sections of your clients title. It would appear that some neighbouring property have the 
same arrangement whereas others do not. Does this strip form part of your clients property? 
Do they use it exclusively? Can they make an application for adverse possession or is it 
some sort of pathway that is in use by other properties?
L&Gs solicitor reminded Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor on 20 February about the title issue. As 
Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor confirmed that the piece of land should be included in the title, 
L&Gs lending policy required it to be registered.
Then on 26 February it emailed Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor saying:
We thank you for your recent letter with enclosed documents. We are unable to proceed 
in the matter until all our clients requirements have been satisfied.
We note your client advised that there the strip of unregistered land should be included in 
the title. We require you to submit the application in the land registry and provide us the 
official copies for the unregistered land. Also confirm that there are no buildings in the 
possessory title.
If you have provided information with an expiry date, such as searches, redemption 
figures, buildings insurance or the like, you must note the expiry and provide updated 
documents ahead of completion.
Please note the mortgage expiry date 31/03/2020 and ensure you send the complete 
information to us in good time before the expiry.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor submitted an application to the Land Registry in 
March 2020.
Mr and Mrs T said, The Land Registry sent a letter saying they were coming to our property 
in March - then didnt come - (we never saw them until they came on 5th June 2020). 
Theyve also told us that when they signed the mortgage deed on 18 February they were 
unaware of this issue as their mortgage broker didnt tell them until 19 February, and then 
their solicitor told them on 20 February. They said they wouldnt have signed the mortgage 
deed if theyd known about the issue.
As the title issues still hadnt been resolved in June, with no updates forthcoming from 
Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor about how long it would take, the application was marked as 
aborted.
Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor finally emailed on 15 July to say the strip of land had been registered 
and so matters could now be moved forward.
Unfortunately by then the product Mr and Mrs T had applied for had been withdrawn so a 
new product needed to be selected. This was a fixed interest rate of 5.41% but with no 
cashback.
A revised offer was issued on 20 July, and the mortgage completed on 3 August.
Unhappy with everything that had happened, Mr and Mrs T complained to L&G who didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Matters were then referred to us and our investigator didnt think L&G had done anything 
wrong. As Mr and Mrs T didnt agree it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have set out their account in considerable detail. I trust they wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. 
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service is impartial between, 
and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this means is that we dont represent 
either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint will be 
looked at and what issues should and shouldnt be considered.
Im sorry to see what a difficult time this was for Mr and Mrs T, and Id like to thank them for 
being so open with us. Things clearly couldnt have been easy, and I hope matters have 
improved for them now.
Mr and Mrs T said, in answer to our investigators findings You found L&G did not act 
unfairly and said they had no causal responsibility for what happened. You separate them 
from the the intermediaries but we feel our complaint is about the composite working of all 
interested parties; below we find fault with their collective handling of our case.
In deciding this complaint Im only able to look at the acts (or omissions) of L&G. Im not able 
to consider the acts (or omissions) of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage broker or their solicitor, nor 
can I consider the acts (or omissions) of the Land Registry. I also cant consider a complaint 
about the composite working of the parties. Mr and Mrs T appointed their own mortgage 
broker and solicitor, those parties were nothing to do with L&G and it has no responsibility 
for anything those other parties did or didnt do. With that in mind Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
and Mrs T but theres simply no grounds for me to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that L&G progressed the initial application promptly, with an offer being 
issued less than two weeks after the application was made. Once the offer was made, 
matters were passed to the solicitors to deal with. Thats completely normal industry practice 
and Id never expect a lender to instruct its solicitor to start the legal work before an offer has 
been issued.
L&Gs solicitor received its instructions to start the legal work on 10 February, and within 
three days  so on 13 February - it had identified this potential problem with the title and 
queried it with Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor. I cant comment on why Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage 
broker and/or solicitor didnt pass this information onto Mr and Mrs T until 19/20 February as 
that wasnt down to L&G.
Once Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor had confirmed the piece of land should be included in the title, 
L&Gs solicitor explained what needed to be done:
We note your client advised that there the strip of unregistered land should be included 
in the title. We require you to submit the application in the land registry and provide us the 
official copies for the unregistered land. Also confirm that there are no buildings in the 
possessory title.
There was nothing further that L&G or its solicitor could do then until it received confirmation 
from Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor that matters had been resolved.
Mr and Mrs T have said:
This issue is very annoying to us. As far as we can deduce, a near 100 years possession 
by my wifes family and 46 years by us, should have been enough to validate our 
legitimate possession of land which like our neighbouring properties, in a clearly 
residential area, surely met the Land Registration Acts 12 year criteria for adverse 
possession. Still, we had no choice but to adhere to [their solicitors] request to apply to 
the Land Registry; after all, we had already signed the mortgage deed!They also said that the issue hadnt been raised with previous mortgages, remortgages and 
an equity release mortgage theyd undertaken.
Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ts confusion, all I can consider here is if L&G was following 
its own lending policy. I cant consider what other lenders may or may not have agreed to. 
L&G has provided me with a copy of its policy about this issue and that states that adverse 
possession will only be accepted where the borrower is registered at the Land Registry as 
the owner of the title. That isnt at all an unusual policy in the secured lending market  it 
certainly isnt unfair or unreasonable - and L&G are entitled to follow it. It also didnt have to 
release the funds with an undertaking the work would be completed at a later date.
But Mr and Mrs T didnt need to adhere to this request even though theyd signed the 
mortgage deed. Thats because the deed isnt binding until the mortgage completes. That is 
something Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor should have explained to them, that they had the right to 
walk away at that point if they werent happy with what L&G required. It wasnt L&Gs 
responsibility to explain that to Mr and Mrs T.
Mr and Mrs T have said
However, what was not known to us, or explained by anyone, was that it would take until 
15th July 2020 to give clearance to proceed. No-one had hinted that this procedure could 
have invalidated our offer. Surely, we felt. Land Registry business was related to specific, 
on-going mortgage contexts, and ours had been completed by us? Surely, Legal and 
General had the power or responsibility necessary to expedite Land Registrys actions in 
relation to this particular lifetime mortgage context? 
Unfortunately L&G had no power  or responsibility  to expedite things with the 
Land Registry. It also couldnt have explained the possible timescales to Mr and Mrs T as it 
wouldnt have known them, and they were entirely out of its control. L&Gs responsibility 
ended at the point Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor was notified of what needed to be done if 
Mr and Mrs T wanted to proceed with the mortgage. In fairness, L&Gs solicitor also 
reminded Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor that the mortgage offer had an expiry date. With that, L&G 
and/or its solicitor could do no more. It was then simply waiting for Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor to 
confirm that work had been done, or that Mr and Mrs T no longer wanted to proceed.
Mr and Mrs T have queried the questions that were asked of their solicitor, I quote:
In the letter of September 11th 2020 (Enc 6), we find the quotations one not identified and 
one from to Compliance Manager - unconvincing. In the unidentified one the questions 
seem spurious, as they must have been and satisfied by the valuers report, which was 
charged with making Checks for any problems making the property unsuitable for 
Legal and General (see Enc. 3 Pages 2 & 3). The valuer took extensive measurements 
and photographs on February 4th 2020 and questions such as Does this strip form part of 
your clients proerty? and Do they use it exclusively? must have been evident and 
answered or why did they send the Offer of February 10th  2020? We have the same 
doubt about the Compliance Managers question: If it was a shared path then it would 
need to be checked? Surely the valuer was satisfied this was not the case in his report!
The roles of the surveyor and the solicitor are separate and discrete. The surveyor went out 
and viewed the property as it had been declared to be; that included the land in question. 
The surveyor wouldnt check the land registry information so they had no reason to query or 
highlight these issues. Thats where the solicitor comes in  they check the title to ensure 
what has been declared as the property, actually can be covered by the legal charge. The 
questions raised are legal concerns, hence why they were asked of Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor. Mr and Mrs T have raised concerns that they were treated unfairly as the land registration 
issued wasnt disclosed to them before they signed the mortgage deed. They say they would 
have withheld their signatures until the matter was resolved if theyd known. Its not clear 
what difference Mr and Mrs T think this would have made, as if they hadnt signed the 
mortgage deed then the offer would still have expired when it did, and the registration 
wouldnt have taken place any sooner. They werent legally bound by that deed until the 
mortgage completed so they could still have withdrawn their application and applied 
elsewhere. 
But in any event, that would be a matter between them, their solicitor and their mortgage 
broker. L&G had no idea  and had no reason to know or ask - when Mr and Mrs T would be 
signing the deed and whether theyd been notified of the issue. If Mr and Mrs T feel they 
would have gone to a different lender if theyd been told sooner, then they need to raise that 
as a concern with their broker and/or their solicitor. It isnt something I can consider here as 
it wasnt L&Gs responsibility to give Mr and Mrs T that information.
Mr and Mrs T have said that it isnt fair they lost out as they ended up on a higher interest 
rate and didnt receive the cashback that was available on the original product.
L&Gs mortgage offer was clear that it was only valid for 50 days:
This Offer is valid for 50 days, unless we withdraw this Offer before then, which we can 
do at any time. We are not obliged to make any loan if we are not satisfied that we have 
received all confirmation required from our solicitors and the loan satisfies our lending 
criteria.
And that it was subject to L&G being satisfied with the legal title:
Your lifetime mortgage will be secured by way of a first legal charge on your property. 
We cannot complete this lifetime mortgage until we have received all the documents we 
need and we are satisfied with the title to your property. The solicitors will be working on 
this, but please be aware that this can take some time.
The Understanding the legal process brochure has a section entitled Frequently asked 
questions which states:
How long is my lifetime mortgage offer valid for?
Your Legal & General lifetime mortgage offer is valid for 50 days and most lifetime 
mortgages complete within this time. However, if your lifetime mortgage doesn't complete 
within 50 days there is no need to worry. Your adviser can ask us for a new lifetime 
mortgage offer, as long as your circumstances haven't changed and it's been no longer 
than six months since we valued your property and carried out our checks.
What happens if the interest rate changes?
If during this time our interest rates have changed, and we provide you with a new lifetime 
mortgage offer, it could be on a higher or lower interest rate. If this happens, your adviser 
will explain this to you.
Are there any circumstances that will affect the legal process?
There are some situations where the legal process is more complex and where more 
information is needed for example, when repaying your existing mortgage, purchasing a 
property or following a divorce. This can make the process take longer It's important to 
keep in touch with your solicitor to get regular updates.It is clear from this that the offer is only valid for 50 days and if the rates have changed then 
any new offer would be on that new higher or lower rate. Whilst it doesnt specifically state 
about cashback in this section, as that is part of the pricing of a product it automatically 
follows that if a new product (interest rate) is needed, then whether or not cashback is still 
available depends on whether or not that product also offers cashback. Here the 
replacement product didnt offer cashback, so it is right that L&G no longer had to offer that 
to Mr and Mrs T.
The fact the application was formally aborted in June is just a technicality, and a red herring. 
Even if Mr and Mrs T had come back to L&G at the start of June to say everything was in 
place, they still would have needed to transfer to a new product without cashback as they 
were so far over the 50 days allowed within the 10 February offer.
If Mr and Mrs T werent happy with the replacement product that was offered by L&G then 
they needed to discuss that with their mortgage broker at the time so he could search the 
market to see if this was still the right product for them. If Mr and Mrs T werent aware of the 
change in the product  or they feel it wasnt suitable for them  then thats something theyd 
need to raise with their broker directly.
The mortgage offer had expired some months earlier and that product (with cashback) was 
no longer available. At the time Mr and Mrs T were ready to proceed L&G issued a new offer 
 as its frequently asked questions document said it would  on a product it had available at 
the time. It had no responsibility to make the earlier withdrawn product available to 
Mr and Mrs T as it hadnt done anything wrong to cause the delays.
Mr and Mrs T have said, I quote:
Then on September 11th 2020 (Enc. 6) she says an extension is only provided as an 
exception, generally when a case is due to complete within the next few days. (Where is 
this information in their legal processing brochure we ask? (Enc 4) If, as she says, further 
on, that Legal and General do not have any influence with Land Registry, how could 
they have been certain then that it could not have been completed soon after the expiry 
date or March 31st 2020 (The letter of April 1st 2020 (Enc 8) implied it was a possibility)
L&G couldnt have been certain that the registration wouldnt have been completed soon 
after the expiry date on the offer. But thats irrelevant because the application wasnt marked 
as cancelled until June. If the registration had happened soon after 31 March, then Ive no 
doubt that L&G would have considered the option of that short extension to allow things to 
complete, and if the extension wasnt given then Mr and Mrs T could have complained about 
that at the time. But as registration didnt happen soon after 31 March the point is moot.
Finally, Mr and Mrs T have raised some new issues about a sheet of paper that was 
enclosed with their mortgage offer saying a desk-top valuation had been carried out. Those 
issues didnt form part of the original complaint made to L&G. Our rules state that a business 
must be given the opportunity to investigate and respond to any issues first, so Mr and Mrs T 
would need to raise those issues directly with L&G as a new complaint if they want them 
looked into. Mr and Mrs T may then be able to bring that as a new complaint to this service  
subject to our rules  if they remain unhappy with the outcome. 
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs T found themselves in, 
none of that was due to any act (or omission) on the part of L&G and that is all I can 
consider in this decision. As L&G did nothing wrong here, I cant uphold this complaint, 
however much Mr and Mrs T may want me to.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman