DRN-2612857
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lowell Financial Ltd has harassed him while trying to recover a debt. 
Mr L complains Lowell is asking him to repay money he doesnt owe. 
What happened
Lowell says it acquired a credit card debt in Mr Ls name in March 2018 with an outstanding 
balance of around £885. Lowell says the original lender closed and defaulted Mr Ls credit 
card in July 2017. Both Lowell and the original lender sent Mr L a Notice of Assignment 
setting out the new arrangement at the beginning of April 2018. 
Mr L has asked Lowell to send him proof the debt exists and that it is entitled to collect it 
from him. Lowell has obtained a copy of the loan agreement, statements from the original 
lender and the notices of assignment Mr L was sent. Lowell hasnt agree to send Mr L a 
copy of the deed of assignment. 
In December 2019 Mr L complained to Lowell and said it was harassing him to make 
payments for a debt it hadnt proved exists. Lowell didnt agree it had harassed Mr L and 
said it had previously sent him documents that show it is entitled to contact him about the 
outstanding balance. 
Mr L referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Mr L has told 
us that in September 2020 a new business contacted him about the outstanding balance. 
The investigator thought Lowell had dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else. Mr L asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has told us his complaint is that Lowell has harassed him for payments and that it 
hasnt proved the debt exists. I understand Mr L feels the information Lowell has provided to 
date isnt sufficient to show it is entitled to ask him to make repayments. Ive looked at the 
available information to see if Lowell has treated Mr L fairly. 
Lowell says it acquired a credit card debt in Mr Ls name in 2018 and has provided copies of 
the notices of assignment both businesses sent him. Lowell has also sent Mr L and this 
service copies of the credit agreement he accepted with the original lender. I understand Mr 
Ls signature isnt shown on the credit agreement, but businesses are allowed to provide 
reconstituted copies where the original is no longer available and Im satisfied thats what 
Lowell has done here. 
Lowell has also provided copies of statements it says were sent to Mr L by the original 
lender that show the spending on the credit card and payments he made, before the account 
was closed and defaulted. 
Taking all the available information into account, I dont agree with Mr L that Lowell failed to 
show it bought a debt in his name. The information Ive seen shows Mr Ls credit card 
payments werent maintained which meant the account was closed by the original lender. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions provided by the original lender and they specifically 
say it could transfer its rights and the debt. The notices of assignment confirm the original 
lender took that step when it sold Mr Ls debt to Lowell in 2018. 
Mr L has complained that without providing legal proof he is liable for the debt, Lowells 
attempts at recovery are harassment. Mr L has confirmed he understands its not the role of 
this service to say whether a debt can be enforced in court. We decide cases on a fair and 
reasonable basis. Taking the above information and documents into account, Im satisfied 
Lowells decision to contact Mr L and ask for repayment of the outstanding debt it acquired in 
2018 is fair and reasonable. 
Ive looked at the level of contact Lowell has had with Mr L but havent found it has harassed 
him. For the reasons Ive given above, Lowell is able to contact Mr L and request repayment 
which is what it and its agents have done. 
Mr L has told us that he was contacted by another collections agent acting for Lowell. Lowell 
has confirmed it appointed new collections agents to Mr Ls account in August 2020. But 
Lowell can appoint collections agents to act on its behalf so Im unable to agree its made a 
mistake. 
Ive considered everything Mr L has told us and sent in relation to this complaint. Ive also 
looked at all the available information from Lowell. Having done so, I havent found that 
Lowell has treated Mr L unfairly by contacting him in relation to the outstanding balance of 
the credit card debt. As a result, Im not telling Lowell to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman