DRN-2980987
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are business partners trading as S. They complain that Covea Insurance plc 
(Covea) unfairly turned down their business protection insurance claim. 
What happened
S held a business protection insurance policy with Covea. Mr and Mrs T made a claim on 
that policy to cover its losses arising from the business closure as a result of the national 
Government-imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Covea declined the claim as it said COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr 
and Mrs T didnt agree. They said they thought the wording of the policy, specifically the 
wording for Infectious Disease, meant that their claim should be covered.
Mr and Mrs T complained to Covea but it explained that, although the policy would provide 
cover in the event of certain Infectious Diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of 
the named diseases. Mr and Mrs T werent happy with that response so brought the 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said that, while he sympathises with Mr and Mrs Ts situation, he didnt think there was 
cover available under the policy. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T are looking to claim on their business protection insurance policy. There are a 
range of business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different 
risks. When considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining their claim, the starting point 
is to consider the specific policy Mr and Mrs T took out. 
Ss policy included cover for Infectious Diseases. The policy states that it would provide 
cover for interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result ofany human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding 
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by 
any person whilst at the Premises, or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises.
The policy provides a definition for Disease, which sets out a list of specified illnesses that 
are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
I realise that COVID-19 wasnt something Covea would have known about when the policy 
was drafted, but there are other policies that were on the market that did provide cover for 
the pandemic  usually policies that cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and 
updated on a Government defined list. In contrast, Ss policy sets out a specific list of 
illnesses which are covered by the policy. And having reviewed the policy wording, there is 
nothing which implies that it provides cover for other illnesses, including any new illnesses 
which might emerge. So I think the purpose of the policy is to provide cover in the event of 
the specific illnesses listed and I dont think the policy can or should fairly be interpreted as 
covering any illnesses that arent specified in the list set out in the policy.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover COVID-19. However, I dont think SARS and COVID-19 are the same 
disease. The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. 
And the World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses 
are different, and it announced that COVID-19 was the name of this new disease on 11 
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
these two diseases are the same.
Ss policy also provides cover for business interruption resulting from Damage or Denial of 
Access. However, I dont think anything in that wording extends to damage caused to the 
business itself by way of a specified illness or disease such as COVID-19, or even a 
Government-imposed act. Rather, these terms refer to physical damage or loss and I havent 
seen anything to indicate that COVID-19 caused damage to property  so I dont think these 
sections cover Mr and Mrs Ts claim.
I have also considered whether the policys Public Emergency extension would provide 
cover. The policy provides cover for the actions or advice of a competent Public Authority 
due to an emergency likely to endanger life or Property in the vicinity of the Premises which 
prevents or hinders the use of or access to the Premises; excludinginfectious or 
contagious diseases.
As the word diseases isnt capitalised, it isnt limited to the definition of Disease outlined 
above  and therefore isnt limited to the list of specified illnesses outlined separately in the 
policy. So for that reason, I think COVID-19 is caught by this exclusion and therefore, I dont 
think cover is available for these circumstances under this section of the policy.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on Mr and 
Mrs T. But for the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the 
policy, I dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 
8 October 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman