The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a claim he made under his 
buildings insurance policy for fire damage.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr M made a claim to UKI for fire damage to the exterior of the front of his 
property. He said the door, the front windows, some guttering and the external render was 
damaged. UKIs agent inspected the damage. They noticed scaffolding was in place and 
some of the render in the area where damage had occurred had been removed.
During a discussion between the agent and Mr M, he said his neighbour had taken a video 
showing the render in place at the time of the fire. The agent asked Mr M to send UKI the 
video. Mr M provided a still photo from the video and agreed to try to get the video from his 
neighbour. Mr M later said he was unable to provide the video because his neighbour was 
on holiday.
UKI declined the claim. It said the photo Mr M provided hadnt alleviated its concerns. It also 
said the policy contained a condition which required Mr M to provide any relevant information 
UKI asks for. Based on that policy condition, UKI said it wasnt satisfied Mr Ms claim was 
covered. Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered it. She thought it was unfair for UKI to decline the claim  she 
thought UKI should consider the claim without it. She said it was reasonable for UKI to ask 
for the video. But as Mr M said it was his neighbour who had taken the video, Mr M didnt 
have control of it. She had discussed it with Mr M, and he said the video had been deleted 
by his neighbour.
UKI didnt agree with our investigator. It said that when its agent had first discussed the 
video with Mr M in July, it was still available  or if it wasnt, Mr M hadnt said so. After that 
UKI had asked Mr M a number of times for the video but he hadnt provided it. Hed said his 
neighbour was on holiday but not that it had been deleted. UKI questioned whether Mr M 
had received the video from his neighbour and chosen not to share it with UKI  or whether 
he had only received the photo. It also questioned why the neighbour would send a photo to 
Mr M and not the video. Lastly it said Mr M had only mentioned the render damage after he 
had been told he would have to pay an excess for the claim and that his premiums may be 
affected by the claim.
As UKI didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
DRN-1715647investigator that UKI was unfair to decline the claim, so Ill be upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
After the inspection by its agent, UKI has repeatedly said it has concerns about the claim. 
And, in particular, it has concerns about Mr M's claim for the external render. But when it 
declined the claim, it relied on one reason alone to do so  the policy condition about 
providing information. So thats the only point Ill consider in this decision. The condition 
says:
for any claim you must give us any relevant information and evidence that we ask for.
In any insurance claim its the consumers responsibility to show the things theyre claiming 
for have been damaged in a way the policy covers. Sometimes an inspection by the insurers 
agent is enough to achieve that. But where the damaged item or material isnt available to 
inspect, insurers will often ask the consumer to provide evidence to support their claim.
I can understand why UKI asked to see the video. The photos Ive seen of the front of the 
building show a section of render has been removed. Mr M says he removed it after the fire 
had damaged it, so he would like to include the cost of replacing the render in his claim. UKI 
would like to see evidence that the render was in place at the time of the fire  and that it 
was damaged by the fire. I think thats a reasonable enquiry to make.
Mr M initially agreed to provide the video. He later said he was unable to because his 
neighbour was on holiday. And more recently he says his neighbour has deleted the video. 
Mr M provided a photo which I understand was taken from the video. It clearly shows a fire 
outside the front of the building. The flames appear to be reaching the height of the second 
floor and theres thick smoke rising. The fire occurred at night, so the photo was taken in the 
dark. There are also several firefighters directly in front of the camera. Because of the angle 
the photo was taken from, as well as the other features Ive described, the render cant be 
seen clearly. Theres no way of knowing whether the video would have been any clearer.
UKI has questioned what exactly happened to the video and photo, including speculation 
about what the neighbour was likely to have done with them. Mr M has told us he was only 
provided the photo, which he has passed onto UKI, and he wasnt provided the video. I 
havent seen any evidence to contradict that, so I accept what Mr M says. That means hes 
shared with UKI the only information that was made available to him by his neighbour  the 
photo. He wasnt in control of the video and didnt have it available to send to UKI. And as 
its been deleted, he now wont be able to send it to UKI.
For this reason, I dont think it would be fair for UKI to rely on the policy condition to decline 
the entire claim. I think it should accept the video isnt available and reconsider the claim 
without it.
 
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to reconsider the claim, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman