DRN-4373477
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim for subsidence on his home 
insurance policy.
Mr M has been represented throughout this claim and complaint. However for ease Ive 
referred only to Mr M, but all references include the actions of his representative.
What happened
Mr M had home insurance with AXA. In 2022 he made a claim after noticing cracking in the 
extension to his property. AXA investigated but subsequently declined his claim. It said the 
subsidence had happened because the foundations of the extension were insufficient for the 
soil type and nearby vegetation. It said the foundations were 600mm when it said new home 
building guidance said they should have been at least 2,200mm. It said there was an 
exclusion to the subsidence cover for faulty workmanship which would apply.
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said he had a building approval certificate to show that the
build had been signed off at the time, so he couldnt have known that the foundations werent
deep enough. He made a complaint but AXA didnt uphold it, so he brought it to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that this service
doesnt generally think that its fair to judge all properties against the new home guidelines
AXA used here as these only apply to the building of new homes. So she thought it fair that
the foundations were compared to the rules set out in the applicable building regulations at
the time instead. She said, in these it says the foundations of the extension should be at
least 750mm. And as they were built at only 600mm they were insufficient so AXA had acted
fairly by declining the claim.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
On 13 September 2023 I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
When an insurance claim is made it is for the insured to prove that there is an insured peril 
a problem thats covered by the policy. It is then for the insurer to either accept the claim or
to prove an exclusion in the policy applies.
In this case, AXA has accepted that there is an insured peril  subsidence. However it has
said that the subsidence has only happened because the foundations of the extension are
defective, and this is excluded under the policy.
The policy states, under the section for subsidence cover:
What is not covered
Loss or damage arising from the use of defective materials, defective design or faulty
workmanship.
I need to decide whether AXA has applied this exclusion fairly in this case.
AXA has said that standards applied by a builder of new homes  Ill refer to them as
N - stipulate that foundations should be built 2,200mm deep in areas with clay soil. And its
investigations have shown that the foundations of Mr Ms extension are only
600mm deep. So it said that as the foundations dont meet Ns guidance, they are
defective.
Ive looked at the guidelines issued by N and I dont agree these apply here. N provides
guidelines for new build houses. Mr Ms claim relates to an extension to their
property which wasnt a new build. So the builders of the extension werent required to
consider this guidance. For this reason, it wouldnt be fair to apply it here.
Instead we would expect the extension to be built in line with the relevant building
regulations at the time.
The relevant regulations at the time the extension was built in 2014 state the foundations
should be 1,000mm in high shrinkage clay soils, but this may be increased where there are
nearby trees. So I agree that the foundations didnt meet these requirements.
However, when deciding if a business was fair to apply an exclusion for defective
foundations, wed expect it to not only show that the foundations didnt meet the building
regulation requirements at the time, but also that if they had done then this would have
prevented the subsidence.
Here, AXA has said that it found roots at a depth of 2,100mm. That means that even if the
foundations had met the building regulations and been built to a depth of 1,000mm, or
indeed anything up to the depth of the roots, then the subsidence would still have happened.
Im therefore not persuaded that the depth of the foundations is the cause of the subsidence
and think it would have happened even if they were sufficient.
Ive put this to AXA and its said that while roots were found at 2,100mm, desiccation
occurred at 800mm. So it says that while subsidence likely still would have occurred if the
foundations were built sufficiently, it wouldnt have been as bad.
Ive considered this and Im not persuaded that this means it has acted fairly by applying the
exclusion. It has admitted that the subsidence would still have occurred if the foundations
had been built in line with building regulations. And while it speculates that the damage
would not have been as bad, there would still likely be cause for Mr M to claim. Based on 
this, I dont think its done enough to show that the exclusion it is relying on is material to the
need to claim. And I therefore dont think its fair for it to apply the exclusion in the
circumstances.
Based on this, I am minded to direct AXA to accept Mr Ms claim for subsidence and settle it
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.Response to my provisional decision
AXA responded and didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that the building 
regulations I referred to in my decision reference Building Standards. And these standards 
reference the guidance produced by N about the appropriate depths for foundations based 
on the distance the structure is from different vegetation, that I said we wouldnt consider. 
AXA said that based on the vegetation here, the foundations should be built to a depth of 
2,200mm. It said that as roots were found at 2,100mm then the foundations being built to 
this depth would have meant the subsidence didnt occur. And the guidance should be 
followed as it is referenced in the regulations I applied in my outcome. 
Mr M didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate AXAs point about the reference to Ns guidance in the building standards, 
however this doesnt change my position. The exclusion AXA has relied on requires the loss 
to have arisen due to defective design or faulty workmanship. And this service considers a 
reasonable standard to hold builders to is the building regulations at the time. As these are a 
legal requirement rather than just guidance. 
The document AXA has referred to is British Standards BS 8004:1986: Code of practice for 
foundations. The building regulations I referred to in my provisional decision reference these 
standards. And the standards themselves refer to the guidance from N. So while I appreciate 
that the British Standards provide a link to the best practice guidance, these arent 
regulations that builders are required to follow under law. These are guidance for best 
practice for new homes and often go much further than building regulations. 
The building regulations that apply here required the foundations to be built to a depth of 
1,000mm. And to add to this where there are nearby trees. And while I agree the foundations 
of Mr Ms extension dont meet this, my consideration was based on whether this was 
material to the loss. And Ive not been persuaded that it was. 
If the builders had followed the regulations, even allowing a significant amount of additional 
depth to allow for nearby trees, the roots are at such a depth that the subsidence would still 
have occurred. So I dont think its fair to say that just because the maximum depth provided 
in new homes guidance isnt met, that the defective workmanship exclusion would fairly 
apply. 
Im therefore not persuaded to depart from the outcome I laid out in my provisional findings. I 
therefore require AXA to accept the claim and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to 
accept his claim for subsidence and settle it in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman