DRN-1516411
The complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1995 in connection 
with a store card.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD as the insurer accepts responsibility for 
the complaint.
What happened
In 1995, Mrs C applied for a store card by completing an application form in store. PPI was 
added to her account. She says the PPI was sold as though she had to have it. At the time 
of the sale, she was going into a new job for a two year contract where all her expenses 
were paid, so she didnt need to have this insurance because she had her full salary to rely 
on. 
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs C 
couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also 
provided life cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicators 
view, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
As AXA France has accepted responsibility for looking at this complaint, I will refer to AXA 
France as the seller  for ease.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA France made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
France produced a copy of Mrs Cs store card application. I can see there was a tick box 
stating Yes, I want my account covered by Payment Protection Insurance This box is 
ticked on Mrs Cs application  either by her or a member of staff. I noted she declined 
other offers on the application form - so I think the form was diligently completed and there 
was probably some sort of discussion about the things she wanted and didnt want. And as 
she signed the form, I can reasonably assume she checked the details were correct. So I 
think her signature means AXA France probably made it clear the policy was optional and 
that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not be able to 
remember this.
I dont think AXA France advised Mrs C to take out the PPI. This means AXA France didnt 
have to make sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear 
information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
I dont know exactly what information Mrs C received about the policy at the time of the sale. 
But even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont 
think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained 
below.
Mrs C was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. So I think she would have received a benefit from the PPI.
She told us she was employed and in good health. I noted Mrs C said she was about to start 
a new job with good benefits, but AXA France said Mrs C was in another job at the time of 
the sale which had limited sick pay if she was away from work due to illness. The policy 
could have paid out in addition to Mrs Cs limited employment benefits so could have proved 
useful to Mrs C if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. She could also have 
benefited from the additional life cover. So I think she would have seen a benefit in having 
the cover.
I dont know if AXA France made the cost and benefits of the policy clear enough for Mrs C 
to understand what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, 
I think if Mrs C had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she would have 
thought the policy potentially useful and affordable  particularly as I have already decided 
she probably chose to buy PPI. So I still think she may have found some benefit in the 
policy.
Taking everything into account, I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I 
think she would still have taken out the cover even if she had been given full details about it.  
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Cs submissions, but they do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman