DRN-2777680
The complaint
Miss H complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) incorrectly suspended her 
account, delaying a withdrawal and causing her distress 
What happened
Miss H holds an account with NS&I. 
On 30 October 2020 Miss S contacted NS&I by telephone to make a withdrawal of £5000 to 
pay her rent. She was asked three security questions, but she couldnt answer them 
because the questions generated by the computer system were not the ones she had set up 
when she opened account, and they were not applicable to her. 
Miss H called a further twice, but the same questions were asked, and after five failed 
attempts to pass security, her account was suspended. A temporary password was ordered, 
and the call handler attempted to reset the password, but this also failed, and a signature 
form was ordered. 
The same day, a manager listened to the call and checked the original security questions 
that had been set up. He called Miss H back to explain that NS&I were at fault as the 
incorrect security questions had been asked. The manager was able to process the £5000 
withdrawal that day, and it reached Miss Hs account on 2 November 2020, which was the 
same day as it would have reached her account if there had been no issues. Miss H was 
able to pay her rent on time. 
On 2 November 2020 Miss H complained to NSI about the what had happened, and on 3 
February 2021 they issued their final response. They apologised to Miss H for their error and 
offered her £50 for the inconvenience caused. Miss H was unhappy with this and brought 
her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Hs complaint and she thought that the 
payment offered by NS&I was fair. 
Miss H disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not upheld the complaint, and I will explain why below. 
As NS&I have accepted that they have made an error, the only question for me to consider 
is whether the payment offered by NS&I was fair for the distress caused. 
I note that Miss H was making the withdrawal to pay her rent, and during the course of the 
day, as she kept failing security, she became increasingly distressed at not being able to 
make the withdrawal and she was worried about the impact this would have on her ability to 
pay her rent on time. I understand that she was concerned that this may have caused bank 
charges, and problems with her tenancy and I can see how worrying this would have been 
for Miss H.
However, I can also see that NS&I acted the same day to sort this out, and the manager 
rang Miss H back, apologised for the error, and processed the payment. Although I accept 
that Miss H was worried about what might happen if the payment didnt go though on time, in 
this case, it did go through, and no financial detriment was caused, so I cant take account of 
what might have happened. 
Having considered this, Im satisfied that £50 is a fair offer for the distress caused, and I note 
that NS&I have already paid this to Miss H.
My final decision
My decision is that National Savings and Investments do not need to do anything further.   
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman