DRN-1516447
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the actions of Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) when a 
car she was paying for under a conditional sale agreement developed a fault. 
Miss W has brought her complaint to this Service through a representative but, for simplicity, 
I will refer to her throughout.
What happened
Moneybarn agreed a loan of £9,180 for Miss W on 16 November 2018 via an intermediary. 
The total amount owed (excluding a deposit of £319 paid to the dealership which sold the 
car) came to £18,076 which was to be repaid over 59 instalments of £3011.
The loan was granted under a conditional sale agreement meaning Miss W would own the 
car once the loan had been repaid. Moneybarn was the owner until that point and Miss W 
was, in essence, paying for the use of it. Any complaints about the quality of the car as given 
to Miss W then falls to Moneybarn. 
It seems the car displayed a warning light at the point of sale. This was investigated in 
January 2019 by the dealership that sold the car to Moneybarn. The dealership confirmed 
that it originally thought the repair would involve a software update but it turned out to be 
more complicated than that. It found that repair would involve replacement of a wiring 
harness.
The car wasnt booked in for this repair until August 2019. I understand from Miss W that 
that was the earliest date convenient for her. Miss W was without the use of the car then for 
the time it was with the dealership, in other words from mid-August 2019. 
Miss W complained to Moneybarn in early September because of the length of time it was 
taking to repair the car. In mid-November, having failed to sort the matter out, Moneybarn 
decided to end the agreement. Moneybarn explained that the car had been sent to a 
specialist repairer and, at some point during the repair process, failed to start. Both it and the 
dealership accepted that the car had been faulty from the outset and was now unusable. 
I understand Miss W had received a refund of her deposit from the dealership. Moneybarn 
proposed to refund the payments Miss W made during the time she was without the car 
(from August 2019 onwards). It said she made eleven payments altogether and it offered to 
refund three. Moneybarn also offered to pay her £250 for any inconvenience caused and 
would consider a refund of any out-of-pocket expenses Miss W had to pay during that time. 
It seems both parties agree about what happened but Miss W says that Moneybarns offer 
isnt sufficient compensation - she doesnt feel that Moneybarn should be able to keep any of 
her monthly payments as the car was faulty from the outset. She also said that it doesnt feel 
fair to her that Moneybarn has profited from the matter - it charged her interest on her loan 
and would potentially be able to recoup the money it paid for the car from the dealership. 
1 All figures quoted are rounded to the nearest pound.
Miss W explained that due to her circumstances she relied on her car and her mental health 
has suffered because of the stress this matter has caused. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Ws complaint and found that Moneybarns 
offer was fair as Miss W had been able to use the car until it went to the dealership for 
investigation and had driven it approximately 6,000 miles. She didnt recommend that 
Moneybarn  should pay any more than it had offered. Miss W disagreed and asked for her 
complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time.
As the facts of the case arent in dispute I wont go into what happened in any more detail. It 
seems to me there are two aspects that Miss W is unhappy about  that Moneybarn keeps 
her repayments from the time she was able to use the car and the level of compensation 
offered to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience the matter caused. 
Having considered everything, Ive concluded that the offer made by Moneybarn is a fair one 
and so, although I am upholding Miss Ws complaint, I am not asking it to pay any more 
compensation. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss W and I hope my 
explanation below makes it clear why I have come to this conclusion.
As mentioned, Moneybarn was the owner of the car. The finance agreement states that the 
car would not become Miss Ws property until shed made all the payments. Miss W paid 
each month for the use of the car, knowing that it would become her property at the end of 
the agreement, assuming all payments were made. In the meantime she was, in effect, 
renting the car from Moneybarn. 
Moneybarn was obliged under The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to ensure that the 
quality of the car was satisfactory, in other words that it was of a standard a reasonable 
person would feel was satisfactory or as expected taking into account factors such as the 
cars age, the mileage, the price it was sold at etc. It is not in dispute that the fault existed 
prior to Miss W taking possession of the car. Miss W was therefore supplied with a car that 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. However, it doesnt seem that the issue limited or impaired 
Miss Ws use of the car prior to August 2019. So I cant say that she was unable to make fair 
use of the car for the time it was in her possession.
Miss W says that she didnt know she could complain to Moneybarn about the quality of the 
car and only got in touch with it when the dealership took longer than she expected to repair 
it. But, shes also said that she didnt leave the car in for repair until August because it wasnt 
convenient for her until then, so I dont think she would have made fewer payments had she 
been in touch with Moneybarn any earlier. I understand Miss W had no further use of the car 
though the agreement wasnt cancelled until November. So I think its fair that Moneybarn 
refunds Miss Ws payments for the months where she didnt have the use of the car.
I want to reassure Miss W that I have considered what shes told us about the impact this 
matter has had on her. I dont doubt that it has been stressful and I am sorry to hear that her 
circumstances have been difficult. However, I think Moneybarns offer of £250 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused is in line with what I would expect to award under the 
circumstances. And so in this case Im not asking it to pay any more.Putting things right
Moneybarn has already made an offer to settle Miss Ws complaint and I think the offer is fair 
in the circumstances of this case. 
My understanding is that the car was never returned to Miss W but, to be clear, if it hasnt 
already done so, Moneybarn should:
End the agreement ensuring that Miss W doesnt pay anything further; and
Collect the car at no cost to Miss W; and
Refund three of Miss Ws monthly payments to reflect the time she had no use of the 
car; and
Pay her an amount of £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused her; and
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Miss Ws credit file. 
Moneybarn has said it would consider any out of pocket expenses Miss Ws needed to pay 
while she was without her car. If Miss W wishes to take up this offer she should get in touch 
with Moneybarn directly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Ws complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited and it should put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman