DRN-2440265
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited are chasing him for a 
debt that his representatives say they cannot prove.
What happened
This complaint is regarding two credit cards and a loan in Mr Hs name, all of which 
defaulted in 2009. Cabot bought the loan and one credit card in 2012, and bought the other 
credit card in 2017.
Over the years, Mr H paid towards these debts via a debt management company who was 
representing him, and on occasion he spoke to Cabot directly about his payments.
In 2018, Mr Hs representation changed. His new representatives disputed the debts, asking 
that Cabot prove that Mr H owed them and that the amounts were correct. Cabot were able 
to provide some evidence, but not everything that had been requested. Mr Hs 
representatives argue the debts are unenforceable, and that Cabot should write off or reduce 
the balances, or stop all collection activity.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that only a court can look at enforceability  we can only consider whether its fair 
for Cabot to pursue the debts. They felt Cabot had sufficient evidence to support the loan 
and one credit card. And the other credit card had been sold alongside the loan, and Mr H 
had been paying towards it for years, so they felt it was unlikely that the amount was 
incorrect or that it wasnt Mr Hs debt.
Mr Hs representatives accepted that one of the credit cards was sufficiently evidenced, and 
that we couldnt consider enforceability. But they didnt feel the other credit card or loan had 
been sufficiently evidenced, so they argued it would be more reasonable if Cabot wrote them 
off. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, I cannot make any findings on whether these debts are 
enforceable or not  only a court can do that. So if Mr H would like to pursue that issue, he 
may wish to seek legal advice on that point. But I have carefully considered whether its fair 
for Cabot to continue pursuing these debts. Having done that, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator, and for much the same reasons.
Both sides now seem to agree that the credit card debt for around £870 is genuine. Cabot 
have now provided Mr Hs credit agreement and statements, as well as the notice they gave 
Mr H that theyd taken over the account. So I think that this debt is genuine and that its fair 
for Cabot to ask for repayments.
The original agreement and statements arent still available for the loan. But I have looked at 
the loans electronic records, which show it was taken out using Mr Hs personal details, 
contact details, employment details, and bank details. The loan was paid into a bank account 
in his name and repayments were made from the same account. The records show the full 
transaction history and support the amount thats owed now. Cabot were also able to provide 
a screenshot showing they sent Mr H a notice of assignment when they bought the debt 
back in 2012. And Mr H had been paying towards it for years without any prior dispute. So 
I think this debt is genuine too, and that its fair for Cabot to ask Mr H to repay it.
The other credit card, of around £2,700, is a more finely balanced issue. The original 
documents arent still available, which is rather unsurprising given all the time thats passed. 
But it does mean theres limited evidence to go on.
However, I am mindful that this credit card came from the same original creditor as the loan 
 which I am satisfied is genuine  and was sold alongside that loan. Cabot have provided a 
screenshot to show that they sent Mr H a notice of assignment when they bought this credit 
card, and Mr H didnt dispute the debt at the time. Indeed, it looks like he was content to 
repay it for a number of years. And according to the contact notes, he even got in touch with 
Cabot directly to agree payments and discuss the possibility of a settlement offer. It seems 
rather unlikely that hed do that if the debt wasnt his or if the amount was significantly wrong.
There does not seem to have been any dispute about this credit card at all until the latest 
representatives took over for Mr H. And its not clear what the basis of the dispute is. Aside 
from the age of the account and the resultant lack of available documents, there doesnt 
seem to be any substantial evidence that this isnt Mr Hs debt, or that the balance had been 
worked out incorrectly. As far as I can see, Mr H had accepted the amount owing until the 
representatives said otherwise.
So I dont think I have a good reason to conclude that this isnt Mr Hs debt  based on the 
available evidence and the balance of probabilities, I think it most likely is his. In regard to 
the amount owing, Cabot have provided the transaction history to show how the balance got 
to where it is now since theyve owned the account. And Ive got no reason to conclude that 
the balance was wrong when Cabot bought the debt. If it had been, Id have expected Mr H 
 or his representatives at the time  to have disputed it years earlier. 
So on balance, while I understand where Mr Hs representatives are coming from, I think its 
fair for Cabot to continue asking for repayments on these debts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman