DRN-2488740
The complaint
Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr T took out PPI in 2001 at around the same time as he applied for a mortgage. The PPI 
gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the
balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and
what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T says he didnt knowingly agree to PPI, if it had been explained to him he would have 
refused it. And he says the bank has told him his PPI application form wasnt signed which 
supports his claim. Mr T cant recall where or how the PPI was sold to him. Halifax no longer 
has this on record, but it reviewed it as an advised sale in branch. It did this to be fair to Mr T 
as this put more responsibility on the bank for how it sold the policy. 
I think its most likely Mr T took out PPI during a phone call with the branch, not in person. I 
say this as the PPI application form lists the branch responsible for the sale, and the 
welcome letter the bank sent to Mr T on 22 August 2001 refers to the cover having been 
arranged on the telephone. 
This letter refers to a copy of Mr Ts completed application form that was enclosed, saying if 
the information is correct no further action was required. I think its most likely thats why the 
copy of the PPI application the bank has on file is unsigned. If Mr T hadnt agreed to PPI, or 
didnt want it, I would have expected him to contact the bank on receipt of this letter. There 
was nothing in the letter or on the application form that I think could reasonably have led 
Mr T to believe the PPI was mandatory. Mr T has said more recently that he didnt receive 
the letter, but I have to take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might 
impact what he recalls. The bank has a copy on file, and Ive seen no evidence to suggest it 
wasnt sent.
On balance, I think its most likely Halifax made it clear Mr T had a choice about PPI  and 
he opted to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr T. And I think it seems to have been right for him based
on what Ive seen of his circumstances. Mr T says he was entitled to at least six months sick 
pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits for up to 24 months for 
each successful accident and sickness claim. And it also offered redundancy cover for up to 
24 months. He also told us he had savings worth at least six months salary but the PPI 
would have allowed him to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for his future needs. Mr T was borrowing a large sum over a long period 
secured against his home. Given the serious consequences of missing mortgage payments, 
I think the PPI wouldve been useful if Mr T was sick, had an accident or lost his job. 
Mr T says Halifax did not explain the details of the policy and I agree its possible Halifax 
didnt give Mr T all the information he needed before deciding to buy PPI. I dont know that it 
pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr T doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions. I also dont know when it first made the cost clear, 
but the PPI was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and it was apparently affordable.
So I dont think better information about the policy wouldve changed his mind about buying
it.
It follows I dont think Mr T has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman