DRN-3202182
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain American International Group UK Limited (AIG) unfairly turned down 
their claim for their cancelled holiday. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs S booked a holiday abroad and took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy with AIG. They were due to travel in mid-November 2019.  
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs S had to cancel their holiday due to Mrs Ss health. She had been 
allocated a hospital appointment for November 2019 for a type of biopsy. The appointment 
was during the time Mr and Mrs S were due to be away on holiday. And they made a 
cancellation claim against the policy. 
AIG reviewed the claim and requested Mrs Ss medical records. It said these showed Mrs S 
had been aware she was under investigation for a medical condition at the time of booking 
the trip and talking out the policy. And it said because of this, the claim was declined. 
Mr and Mrs S complained. AIG said it had reviewed the claim, but thought it had been right 
to decline it. It said this was because the medical evidence showed in July 2019 when the 
policy was taken out, Mrs S was aware she was awaiting hospital tests and investigations, 
and she hadnt declared this.
Unhappy with AIGs response, Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened, and said they didnt think AIG had acted 
unfairly. 
AIG made no further comments on the investigators view. However Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed. They asked for a decision from an ombudsman, so the case has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AIG said Mrs S failed to take reasonable care when answering its medical questions. As part 
of the application process, it asked: Has anyone travelling been placed on a waiting list 
currently for investigations or treatment?. And Mr and Mrs S had answered no. 
Mrs Ss medical records showed she had seen her doctor in May 2019, and had been told 
she was being referred to the hospital for a scan. This was prior to Mr and Mrs S booking 
their holiday and taking out their policy in July 2019. And based on this, I think it was 
reasonable for AIG to say Mrs S didnt answer its question correctly in relation to medical 
investigations. 
Im satisfied AIGs question was clear and demonstrated that it wanted to know if the 
policyholders were waiting for any investigations or treatment. And the medical evidence Ive 
seen shows Mrs S had been told she had been referred for a scan at a hospital, before she 
took out the policy. So Im persuaded she needed to answer yes to the question AIG 
asked. 
AIG provided evidence from its underwriters confirming, had the information about the scan 
referral been declared, it would have most likely been unable to offer the policy at all, or it 
would have added an exclusion. And because of this, Im satisfied the misrepresentation 
was a qualifying one.  
I note the investigator stated AIG had classed the misrepresentation as careless, but based 
on the action AIG has taken, it has viewed the misrepresentation as reckless / deliberate. 
The evidence Ive seen shows Mrs S was told in May she was being referred for a scan, she 
booked her holiday and took out her policy out in July and underwent the scan in August, all 
in the same year. So because of this, I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to class the 
misrepresentation as reckless / deliberate. 
And in these circumstances, the remedy available under CIDRA is that AIG can decline the 
claim and avoid (cancel as if it never existed) the policy, and it doesnt have to refund any 
premiums. AIG declined the claim, but Ive not seen any evidence that it avoided the policy. 
And Im satisfied AIG has not acted unfairly. 
Mr and Mrs S have made a number of representations about the further referrals and tests 
Mrs S underwent. At the time of booking their holiday, Mrs S had been referred for a scan at 
the hospital, and this took place in August 2019. The appointment in November 2019 which 
caused the cancellation of the trip, was in relation to a different referral for a biopsy. Ive 
considered all of these points, but I dont think they make a difference in the circumstances 
of this case. Whilst I appreciate there were separate referrals and medical conditions 
involved, Im satisfied Mrs S made a misrepresentation based on the referral for a  hospital 
scan made in May 2019, which Im satisfied she was aware of at the time of taking out her 
policy. And in line with CIDRA, this entitled AIG to decline any claims. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against American International Group UK Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman