DRN-3429331
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-sold a long-term holiday product by Westgate Palace, LLC 
(Westgate), a Florida company. Because he paid in part using a credit card issued by 
MBNA Limited, he says that he has a claim against it in the same way he has a claim 
against Westgate. 
Mr T been represented by a claims management company, so references to his evidence 
and submissions include those made on his behalf. 
What happened
In August 2015 Mr T and his partner bought a long term holiday product from Westgate. Mr 
T used his credit card to pay part of the purchase and then to make smaller, regular 
payments. They appear to have been loan repayments, but their precise nature is not 
important to the overall outcome here. 
In 2017 Mr T contacted MBNA to say he thought the holiday product, which had some 
features of a timeshare, had been mis-sold. In doing so, he said:
He and his partner have been unable to use the timeshare.
He was told he was buying the freehold of a unit, but that is not the case.
He was told he would receive an income from the timeshare.
He was told that the property was worth US$25,700, but it isnt.
Westgate was in breach of Florida regulations (specifically because it did not provide a 
copy of the Public Offering Statement and because it did not act in good faith), which in 
turn was a breach of the implied term that relevant regulations had been followed.
Westgate was in breach of the EU Timeshare Directive and there was a breach of 
contract by misrepresentation.
The timeshare sale meant that the credit card agreement created an unfair relationship.
MBNA sought further information about the complaint from Mr T  including information 
about the accommodation, how bookings were made, information about the propertys 
freehold, any information he had been given about rental income and information about 
booking other properties. When it received further information  which was not everything it 
had requested  it contacted Westgate. 
Westgate provided further documentation. In particular, it sent copies of the cancellation 
notice (which had given Mr T ten days in which to cancel the contract if he was not happy) 
and Mr Ts signature confirming receipt of a CD-Rom of the Public Offering Statement. 
MBNA said therefore that Mr T had not shown that he had a valid claim against Westgate 
and did not uphold his claim. Mr T referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
thought however that MBNAs response had been fair and did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr T did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 , statements made by a supplier in 
relation to a transaction financed or proposed to be financed under pre-existing 
arrangements between a credit provider and the supplier are deemed to be made as agent 
for the creditor.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part; 
and
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the credit provider and the supplier.
Credit includes the use of a credit card account, and the arrangements under which 
suppliers are able to take credit card payments are, through membership of card schemes 
such as Visa or Mastercard, sufficient to constitute pre-existing arrangements.
I am satisfied that the card payment in this case was taken by Westgate and that it was the 
supplier within the meaning of the Act. I must therefore consider Westgates actions and 
whether they might give rise to a claim which Mr T can bring against MBNA.
I note that Mr T has said that Westgate was in breach of both the EU Timeshare Directive 
and of relevant regulations in Florida. But both cannot apply. I think it more likely that the 
contract was governed by Florida law and that the regulations that the resort developer and 
the seller of the timeshare had to follow were also matters of Florida law.
The specific breach of local regulations alleged by Mr T is that Westgate did not provide him 
with a copy of the Public Offering Statement. But Westgate produced evidence that it provide 
a copy. Mr T did not challenge that evidence. In my view, that raises some questions about 
the credibility of other elements of Mr Ts case.      
In general, I think that the evidence of any statements made leading up to the sale and 
evidence that they were untrue is very vague in this case. I would expect to see a much 
clearer and more detailed account of what happened, and I note that MBNA pressed Mr T 
for more information to support his claim on a number of occasions. For example, if Mr T 
was routinely having difficulty making bookings, I might have expected to see some 
contemporaneous evidence of that  even if, as he says, bookings could only be made by 
telephone. And its not clear why, if Mr T was told that the timeshare was worth US$25,700, 
Westgate would be prepared to sell it to him for some US$10,000 less than that.   
I do not therefore believe there is enough for me to conclude that it would be fair to uphold 
the complaint about MBNAs response to the section 56 and section 75 claims. It follows too 
that I do not believe that a court is likely to make an order under sections 140A and 140B of 
the Act  under which a court can review the terms of a consumer credit agreement if it 
creates an unfair relationship.My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require MBNA Limited to do anything 
further to resolve Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman