DRN-3193752
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the poor handling of their claim for damage from an escape of 
water by their home insurer, AXA Insurance UK plc. The complaint has been brought by Mrs 
P and I have referred to her throughout, but all references include Mr P.
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs Ps home suffered extensive damage from an escape of water from 
the tank in the loft. She called AXA and an emergency plumber was arranged. Mrs P said 
what followed was a catalogue of error by AXA and its contractors over the next 12 months, 
resulting in severe mental stress for her entire family. She said their home has resembled a 
building site and theyve been treated without compassion or concern for their wellbeing. 
AXA appointed a loss adjuster who assessed the damage. The loss adjuster recommended 
an asbestos check and removal of damaged materials and arranged drying out. Mrs P said 
pending a skip, which she had to chase, material was dumped on her drive and her family 
then loaded the skip. The loss adjuster revisited in December 2019 and a scope of works 
was produced and a settlement of about £9,700 was offered. 
Mrs P said her home was unsafe particularly for family members with medical conditions and 
she requested alternative accommodation (AA). But AXA declined as they had a functioning 
bathroom and kitchen. She said the original plumber didnt complete the repairs satisfactorily 
and didnt check for further leaks and water poured through from another source. Mrs P paid 
for this repair herself as she didnt want to make a second claim and pay another excess.
Repairs began in March 2020 but were halted due to the covid lockdown. Mrs P paid to 
resolve further leaks as AXA told her its contractors wouldnt recommence refurbishment 
until all leaks were resolved. She said shed paid huge electricity bills. She said she wasnt 
happy with the standard of the work carried out and asked the loss adjusters to inspect. She 
said they agreed it was sub-standard and to put another team on site when work 
recommenced. Mrs P said she couldnt get the plumber to return and correct sub-standard 
work and had to arrange a new plumber, who quoted her £10,000 to complete the work. 
Mrs P complained that in July 2020 the loss adjusters told her the contractor wouldnt return 
and she had to accept a cash settlement. Mrs P wants AXA to honour its offer of £10,212 
along with reimbursement for the further leaks and a hotel stay at Christmas as the work 
wasnt finished as promised by the loss adjusters, and for utility charges and a damaged 
alarm system. She also wants compensation for replacement floorboards and loft insulation.
Mrs P said AXA kept changed its cash offer - and its final offer of £3,000 is unacceptable, 
but AXA didnt respond to her complaint. AXA said its contractors were unable to complete 
the works, due to the condition of Mrs Ps home but as the works were partly completed the 
full settlement of £10.212 wouldnt be available. AXA is offering Mrs P £4,071.25 for the 
outstanding works. AXA said some of the work Mrs P requested was for uninsured losses 
and further work should be considered by Mrs Ps current insurer. AXA said its loss adjusters 
are prepared to discuss the scope of work and cash settlement with Mrs P.
In its response to Mrs Ps complaint AXA said, concerning delays, that drying took longer 
than anticipated and new leaks were discovered, and it had to wait for its contractors to be 
available. AXA said it caused no unnecessary delays. AXA said it hadnt offered AA as Mrs 
P had access to cooking, washing and toilet facilities and so her home was habitable. AXA 
said Mrs P hadnt alerted any safety concerns about living at home and had they been 
known its loss adjusters and contractors would have addressed these.    
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said AXA is entitled to cash 
settle the claim and did so fairly given that there was damage outside of the claim. She said 
Mrs Ps plumber wasnt provided by AXA. The investigator said theres no evidence that Mrs 
Ps home was uninhabitable and so AA didnt need to be offered. She said AXA would 
discuss its offer of settlement of the claim with Mrs P if she wished.
Mrs P disagreed with the investigator. She said the investigator had incorrectly stated that 
the original plumber wasnt provided by AXA, and she had requested AA as her home had 
been left in a dangerous and unhealthy condition. Mrs P said she was unaware her broker 
had changed her home insurer before the further leaks emerged, had she been she would 
have made a second claim and not paid for the works herself. She said she didnt think 
AXAs offer of settlement was fair or the work carried out was of a reasonable standard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is inherent with a complex and time-consuming claim such as Mrs Ps that there will be 
disruption, and this will be stressful to the policyholder. When we consider whether or not to 
uphold a complaint concerning delay and disruption we look to see if the insurer has caused 
unnecessary and avoidable inconvenience. 
Following a large-scale escape of water, the property needs to be thoroughly dried out. Mrs 
P was unhappy with the noise of the dryers and on occasions switched them off. This is 
understandable but will have prolonged the time in which her home took to dry out. 
Unfortunately a second leak was discovered and needed to be resolved before the repairs 
could continue, and then the covid lockdown took place. The delays that I have seen with 
Mrs Ps claim do not appear to have been caused by AXA and so I dont think it would be fair 
to hold AXA responsible for the time taken on Mrs Ps claim. 
I think it was unfortunate for Mrs P that the original leak occurred and even more so that 
further leaks emerged after the repairs had started. This was nobodys fault, but it obviously 
prolonged the claim and affected the work that had taken place. I sympathise with Mrs P for 
seeing the work start in March 2020 and almost immediately stop because of the covid 
lockdown, this must have been very frustrating for her.
AXAs contractor didnt think the claim could be progressed because new leaks emerged 
causing new damage. AXA thought that to complete the works, it would have to undertake 
uninsured works and accept liability for damage that wasnt part of the initial claim. AXA 
made an offer to cash settle the claim. AXA is entitled under the policy to offer a cash 
settlement and Ive looked at the circumstances to see if this was fair. The leaks emerging 
after the repairs had started occurred after Mrs P had taken out a policy with a new insurer 
and werent linked to the original leak. Consequently, I can understand why AXA would not 
want to make repairs and refurbishment for this damage before it could complete the work 
for which it was liable.  Mrs P has said that the plumber that carried out the original work which she complained 
about was arranged by her broker on AXAs behalf. She is unhappy with the standard of the 
work and that the plumber didnt check for further leaks. Mrs P didnt have emergency 
assistance cover with AXA and this means AXA didnt arrange and isnt responsible for the 
plumbers work. Mrs P will need to take up any complaint she has with her home emergency 
insurer. Her broker should be able to assist with this.
Mrs P complained that AXA wouldnt consider the new leaks as part of her claim. The issue 
here is that Mrs P changed insurer before secondary damage and further utility charges 
were incurred. As the secondary damage came some time later and wasnt linked to the 
initial escape of water, I dont think the damage and associated expenses and utility costs 
are AXAs responsibility. Mrs P had a new insurer by the time of the secondary damage and 
should direct any claim to that insurer. 
Once repairs have been started by an insurer, we generally expect these to be followed 
through to a conclusion. But here, AXA said this wasnt possible due to the condition of Mrs 
Ps home following secondary uninsured damage from further leaks. I think this is a fair 
reason for putting forward a cash settlement and so Ive considered if the amount is 
unreasonable for the work, as Mrs P has said. AXA has offered Mrs P £4,071.25 for the 
outstanding works. I have seen the schedule of works from AXAs loss adjuster and given 
that the initial works were largely completed I have no reason to believe this isnt a 
reasonable offer for the remainder of whats covered by her claim. 
AXA has said the amount of the settlement is open to discussion and review between the 
parties as indicated to Mrs P by AXA and our investigator. Mrs P can provide further 
evidence to AXAs loss adjusters, for example a scope of works detailing what repairs should 
be covered under the claim.
Mrs P said AXA should have offered her and her family AA. Mrs Ps policy does have 
provision for AA it says this will be paid, While your home cannot be lived in because of loss 
or damage covered by this policy. I have seen what both parties have said about the state of 
Mrs Ps home and photos, but Im not convinced that it wasnt possible for Mrs P and her 
family to live in their home after the leaks. 
AXA has said Mrs P didnt make a request for AA and didnt tell its loss adjusters that she 
considered her home to be dangerous to family members. It would be normal work for an 
insurers loss adjusters or contractor to address safety concerns within a property during a 
claim. I havent found anything to suggest that Mrs P raised safety concerns to AXA or its 
agents during the claim. Had Mrs P raised this I think AXA agents would have put in place 
safety precautions. As a consequence, I havent found that AXA were at fault here. And it 
follows that I dont think AXA should have to pay for Mrs Ps hotel stay over Christmas.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman