DRN-3163754
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Summary and background to complaint
Mr M said HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
with a credit card. 
HSBC didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold  because it 
said Mr M had referred the complaint to us too late.
But HSBC has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of Mr Ms PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr M about the high level 
of commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ms complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought HSBCs payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr disagreed with the adjudicators opinion but didnt raise any new or additional points. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
HSBC sent its final response on 24 December 2012 (offering redress of £12.94). So, Mr M 
had until 24 June 2013 to refer his complaint to us. But he didnt do this until                         
1 February 2021. So, the complaint was referred out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about that. But, while I know this will be disappointing for 
him, I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply here. I believe Mr M could have 
referred his complaint to us by 24 June 2013. 
There are two other copy letters from HSBC to Mr M. One is dated 14 January 2021 which 
offered Mr M £21.81 being the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% 
of Mr Ms PPI premium. But this is a separate issue from Mr Ms mis-sale complaint. HSBC 
responded to that on 24 December 2012 and it is that issue I am considering int his decision. 
And the other letter is dated 5 January 2021, and which again offered redress of £12.94 to 
resolve the complaint. Mr M has said it was only this latest letter offering payment he 
received and hence the complaint being brought to us.
However, I have checked the initial final response letter dated 24 December 2012 and see 
that it is correctly addressed (as are the other two). And I have no reason to think this wasnt 
sent by HSBC as intended. And we know the majority of correctly addressed 
correspondence reaches the intended recipient. And Mr M hasnt told us of any problems he 
has had with his post.    
So, Im sorry that were unable to help Mr M with his complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
Non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided HSBC should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that HSBCs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
HSBC didnt tell Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
HSBC and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
HSBC didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by HSBC not disclosing 
the high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not driven to conclude that he wouldnt have purchased the policy but for HSBCs 
failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for HSBC to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr M paid for his PPI policy  I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So, I consider that HSBCs offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My decision
Im unable to consider Mr Ms complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that HSBC 
UK Bank Plc should pay Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision about the commission aspect of the complaint before 15 February 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman