DRN-3969487
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by providing her 
with an overdraft she couldnt afford. She says Lloyds acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mrs S held an account with Lloyds and applied and was approved for an overdraft with a 
limit of £500 in January 2020. 
Mrs S complained to Lloyds that it acted irresponsibly by approving an overdraft facility for 
her. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. And as Mrs S was dis-satisfied she referred the 
complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ss complaint and thought that the initial overdraft 
lending was reasonable based on the information Lloyds had, but they felt that Lloyds ought 
to have known Mrs S was in financial difficulty following the overdraft renewal date in 
February 2021.
Lloyds didnt respond to our adjudicators view so the complaint was progressed for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is it 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs S would be 
able to repay what she was being lent before providing any credit to her. Our website sets 
out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were 
proportionate. 
Mrs Ss overdraft is what we refer to as an open-ended credit facility. This means the checks 
Lloyds carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Mrs S would 
be able to repay her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. 
Mrs S applied and was approved for an overdraft with a limit of £500 in January 2020. Lloyds 
says her application was credit scored taking into account information Mrs S provided about 
her income and how she had managed her account with it, as well as information held by 
other lenders provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information 
Lloyds was satisfied her score was high enough to provide her with the overdraft facility she 
requested.
I accept that Mrs Ss financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information she disclosed to Lloyds at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told Lloyds this. But Lloyds was reasonably entitled 
to rely on the credit check it carried out. 
And having viewed Mrs Ss statements leading up to the increases I can see that Mrs S was 
managing her account with Lloyds and that the monthly credits to her account matched what 
she declared on her overdraft application.  And given the relatively modest overdraft limit 
requested I think Lloydss checks went far enough and I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in 
agreeing the overdraft facility for Mrs S. 
But by the renewal date of 3 January 2021 I think it was evident she was in financial 
difficulty. Mrs Ss statements showed that she hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for 
an extended period of time and spent the majority of time at the top of her limit and at times 
direct debits were being returned. Although there were still some credits coming into the 
account they were less than when the overdraft was approved and overall the overdraft 
wasnt reducing. 
Lloydss own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. Mrs Ss statements show she was clearly struggling to 
manage her overdraft limit with Lloyds, there was little money coming in and when it did 
come in it went straight out again to service other accounts or pay for bills and day to day 
living. 
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
And having carefully considered everything provided, think that Lloyds acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from February 2021. By this point, 
it ought to have been clear that Mrs S was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed 
within a reasonable period of time. I accept that Lloyds did offer support and assisted Mrs S 
by refunding some overdraft fees when she got in contact with it but this is a year after her 
account was showing signs of financial difficulty.
So I think that Mrs Ss overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that 
Mrs S wasnt using her overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the 
same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mrs Ss overdraft usage early enough I think it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably.
Mrs S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mrs S fairly and she lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ss complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ss overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from February 2021 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mrs S to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Ss credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in February 2021.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ss credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and direct it pay the 
fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman