DRN-2042537
The complaint
Mr H and Miss R are unhappy that Vitality Life Limited has amended the terms of their 
Vitality Lite rewards programme, part of their personal protection policy. As a result, they 
have lost a discount on their monthly gym membership.  
To resolve their complaint they want the benefit to be reinstated back to how it was before 
the removal in October 2019, without them having to make any other changes to their policy.   
What happened
Mr H and Miss R took out a joint a PruProtect with Vitality policy in April 2009 through a third 
party financial adviser. The policy provides level life assurance for a 20-year term, with a 
£32.89 monthly premium. When Mr H and Miss R took out their cover, it included Vitality 
Lite Rewards benefits. The Vitality scheme provides discounts and benefits to members that 
achieve Vitality points, which count towards their Vitality status (increasing from bronze, 
silver, gold and platinum). These are attained on measurable activities such as exercise and 
health check-ups. One of the benefits of the Vitality Lite Rewards scheme was discounted 
gym membership.  
On 16 September 2013, Vitality sent a letter to Mr H and Miss R explaining that several 
benefits were being removed from the Vitality Lite rewards scheme, and part of this was their 
discounted gym membership. It explained that they did have the option of upgrading their 
policy to include their new replacement scheme, Vitality Plus, providing they did so by 30 
November 2013.  
For an additional payment (noted as £4 per month) on top of the monthly policy premium, 
some Vitality policyholders can pay to be a member of the Vitality Plus programme, which 
has been in operation since 2014. Vitality Plus is an annual programme that runs between 
policy anniversaries. Each year on its expiry, the policyholder may renew it for another year 
or inform Vitality that it is no longer required. It can also be cancelled with 30 days notice. 
Vitality did not hear further from Mr H and Miss R in 2013. However, though it should have 
ended their gym benefit, it did not make the required change on its computer system.  
On 2 September 2019, Mr H and Miss R were told by their gym that their discounted 
membership would be coming to an end. They had each received a letter from the gym 
setting out that that as of 1 October 2019, they would no longer receive a discount on their 
monthly membership fee. The fee would be increasing from £34 to £43 per month and their 
direct debits would be changed accordingly. This was because Vitality had stopped its 
Vitality Lite Rewards scheme back in 2013, but the change had been overlooked.   
The following week, Mr H and Miss R contacted Vitality. Vitality explained that it shouldnt 
have fallen to the gym to notify Mr H and Miss R but that it was correct that their discount 
should have ended. This was because the Vitality Lite rewards scheme had ceased back in 
2013. However, it had told all its customers in 2013 of the change, so Mr H and Miss R had 
continued benefitting from it for a further six years.  
Given Mr H and Miss R could not apply for Vitality Plus without amending the terms of their 
cover, it sent Mr H and Miss R a new quote for a Vitality Life plan with Vitality Optimiser 
(including Vitality Plus). 
Once theyd received their new quote, Mr H and Miss R complained. Mr H told Vitality that 
he wanted to cancel the policy altogether. He said the letter of 2013 had never been sent to 
them and the first theyd heard of the loss of gym discount benefit was in 2019. 
Thereafter, several telephone calls took place between Mr H and Vitality. He explained how 
because neither the gym nor Vitality had properly explained the changes, this left him and 
Miss R with insufficient time to make other arrangements. 
On 1 October 2019, Vitality wrote to Mr H and Miss R to explain that it rejected the 
complaint. It said it gave its customers three months notice (in September 2013) that the 
discount would come to an end in December 2013. However, because of an error, Mr H and 
Miss R were not notified of the gym membership discount ending until the gym had told them 
directly.  As such, it offered them £100 to compensate them for the failure to provide the 
same notice that other customers had received.  
It also said it had considered the fact Mr H and Miss R were told by the gym, rather than 
being notified by Vitality and this was accounted for in the £100 compensation payment. It 
offered an apology for the overall miscommunication. 
Vitality said it couldnt add the Vitality Plus programme to Mr H and Miss Rs policy because 
only policyholders with a monthly premium exceeding £40.00 were eligible to add that 
benefit. It was for that reason it had offered to quote them for a new policy, but to do so 
would mean they would be required to re-underwrite their health as it may have changed 
since the original policy was taken out.  
Mr H and Miss R remained unhappy with Vitalitys response. Mr H emailed Vitality to explain 
that the wanted it to add Vitality Plus to their policy without an additional charge, and without 
them having to reapply for cover as new customers. Mr H also said that the discount he and 
Miss R had been receiving from 2013 to 2019 was 40-50%, not the 25% that Vitality had 
suggested.    
Vitality was not willing to change its view on the outcome of the complaint. So Mr H and Miss 
R brought their complaint to this service. They said that the removal of the benefit was 
wholly unfair as it was one of the reasons they had chosen to take out the policy in the first 
place. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He felt the complaint should be 
rejected. Specifically, he believed that the £100 payment Vitality had offered Mr H and Miss 
R was reasonable in the circumstances where theyd had the benefit of a gym membership 
discount that should have come to an end in 2013. Though the failure to withdraw the benefit 
sooner was a mistake by Vitality, the payment of £100 was intended to provide 
compensation for the delay. Since Vitality was permitted to make changes to the benefits it 
offered, the investigator didnt think it was obliged to do anything more.  
The investigator also noted that if Vitality had reasonably asked for new health details if it 
was to requote them for additional cover, as their medical circumstances may have changed. 
Finally, he explained the discount given under the Vitality Lite scheme had been a little over 
20%, not the 40-50% Mr H had quoted. The higher figure was the discount Vitality Plus 
customers receive  something the gym had set out in the 2 September 2019 letters. 
Mr H said he and Miss R wanted the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. He recognised they had been paid £100 compensation in October 2019, but this did not resolve the matter 
fully for them. They feel that the compensation does not account for how unfairly theyve 
been treated as longstanding customers with Vitality.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I realise my decision will be a disappointment for Mr H and Miss R, I have reached 
the same conclusions as our investigator. I wont be asking Vitality to do anything further. Ill 
explain my reasoning for this decision below.
We do not act in the capacity of a regulator. That means our decisions dont ordinarily 
interfere in how a business may conduct its operations or exercise what may be commercial 
judgment on the provision of a particular service. That remit falls to the FCA. 
Instead, we provide dispute resolution, where we have a duty to make decisions based on 
what we think is fair and reasonable in all circumstances of the case. So, to decide if Vitality 
has been fair in operating the Vitality programme, I need to look at the terms applying to the 
programme and determine if I consider it has operated within those terms. 
Having looked at the policy schedule issued to Mr H and Miss R dated 2 April 2013, it says:
Vitality is our proven health and wellness programme that can help you to get and 
stay healthy through a range of tools, activities and health partner discounts. It also 
rewards you for taking part in the programme with reduced premiums each 
yearthis schedule is to be read together with the Rules for the PruProtect Plan. The 
Vitality programme naturally changes over time as new opportunities arise. It is also 
dependent on our relationship with third party providers and the range of services 
they offer.
The PruProtect policy terms referred to in the schedule provides the full details of the Vitality 
scheme. It says:
E3. The Vitality commitment
We will keep the Vitality programme available for the duration of your plan. As this 
could be many years, we will revise both the Vitality programme and Vitality partners 
from time to time. Our Vitality programme naturally changes over time as new 
opportunities and technologies arise. It is also dependent on our relationship with 
third party providers and the range of services they offer. The rewards we offer are 
separate to your plan and have their own terms and conditions.
We may change the way we award points or eligible activities in the Vitality 
programme and the Vitality status you may achieve as a result. We may also change 
our Vitality partners from time to time and the incentives we offer. There may be 
instances where other aspects of the Vitality programme, such as particular benefits, 
may be significantly enhanced, changed or withdrawn. These changes may occur if 
our Vitality partners offer additional services or become unable to maintain their 
levels of service to us, or where we add new Vitality partners to the programme.
Vitality changes may also be required to prevent the fraudulent use of benefits. 
Revisions may be required as a result of other factors beyond our control. In most 
cases changes to Vitality will be made at plan anniversary, but in some circumstances the Vitality programme may change at any time. Other than changing 
a Vitality partner or offering revised rewards, we will consult an independent expert in 
health and wellbeing before we make any change.
We will usually tell you about any changes to the Vitality programme, including any 
price increases, at least six weeks before the changes take effect, unless were 
unable to do so due to factors outside our control. If we make a change other than 
changing a Vitality partner or offering revised rewards we will notify you at least 6 
months before we make the change.
If you are not satisfied with the changes we make to the Vitality programme, you may 
cancel your plan in accordance with the information in provision F2.
I consider the above terms and the policy wording to be clear in setting out that the Vitality 
scheme is a reviewable benefit, for which the terms may be amended. This is distinct from 
the life and critical illness provisions of the main policy, which are set throughout the policy 
term. There is no guarantee that any one benefit offered under the scheme will remain the 
same. Contrastingly, Vitality has explained that it may change the incentives it offers from 
time to time by providing its programme members enough notice of the change, as it 
commits to do within the policy literature.
Mr H and Miss Rs IFA told Vitality in March 2013 that theyd changed their address. When 
Vitality sent the programme change letter to them on 16 September 2013 it was rightly sent 
to the newly updated address. Whilst it is unfortunate that Mr H and Miss R did not receive it, 
the letter did provide sufficient notice that the Vitality partner would remain the same, but the 
programme provisions would be changing effective 1 December 2013. 
I do not hold Vitality at fault for the letter not arriving with Mr H and Miss R. It was correctly 
addressed, and the vast majority of postal correspondence is properly received. However, it 
did make a mistake by not picking up that no reply had been received from Mr H and Miss R. 
As of 1 December 2013, their gym discounts (as at 2019, a discount of 21% each - £43 
reduced to £34) should have ended.  
I recognise the loss of discount and the changes to the Vitality programme came as a 
surprise to Mr H and Miss R, however, as Ive said above Vitality was legitimately able to 
make periodic changes to this benefit in accordance with the PruProtect policy terms. It 
follows that I do not find it to have acted unfairly or unreasonably in any way regarding the 
amendment. I cannot therefore order Vitality to reinstate the benefits of the Vitality Lite 
scheme, as Mr H and Miss R have asked for. Those benefits no longer exist. 
I also recognise that it is not merely the case that Mr H and Miss R have benefitted from a 
discount they shouldnt have received. Thats because though each of them has saved just 
under £700 in discounts during the period from 2013 to 2019, they could have received a 
larger discount (of 40  50%) by amending their policy to a higher premium of a level above 
£40 per month. 
Mr H and Miss R would have needed to amend their policy terms if they wanted to retain a 
gym discount and therefore that does require re-underwriting of their health circumstances  
though Vitality must recognise that the underwriting should be backdated to 2013, as this is 
when Mr H and Miss R could have considered joining Vitality Plus if the error in gym 
membership discount had been properly picked up at the time. 
That notwithstanding, I dont believe Vitalitys error has caused any further loss that should 
justify additional compensation. The gym failed to provide sufficient notice of the amendment 
in September 2019, not Vitality. But even if it had done so in accordance with the terms set out above, the payment of £100 exceeds six months of discount for both Mr H and Miss R 
combined and six months is the longest notice period within those terms.  
Mr H and Miss R remain free to consider their options under the policy (by joining the Vitality 
Plus scheme or cancelling the policy), and they may wish to seek advice from their IFA or 
elsewhere before taking any such action.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman