DRN-3430344
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that she was given unsuitable advice by RLUM Limited to invest in 
unit trusts.  
What happened
In August 1994, Mrs M was advised to invest £3,600 in the UK Income with Growth Trust 
and was advised to invest a further £3,000 in December 1994 in the UK Growth Trust. She 
surrendered them both in 2004 and received just over £11,000 back in total. In 2021 she 
complained via a claims management company (CMC) that the investment had been mis-
sold. The CMC said that as an inexperienced investor, she was advised to take too much 
risk and was advised to invest too much of her available money.
RLUM replied and said they thought the advice given in August 1994 was suitable. However, 
they had no point of sale documents for the December advice, and so compared the 
performance of Mrs Ms investment, with the return available from the Bank of England base 
rate of interest, plus 1% (BOE + 1%). They found that Mrs Ms investment had performed 
better than that, and so she had not suffered any financial loss. Mrs M, and the CMC on her 
behalf, remained unhappy with the advice, and so the complaint was brought to our service.
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found it should be upheld. She 
agreed with what RLUM said about the advice given in December 1994. However, for the 
advice given in August 1994, she found that Mrs M had been advised to take too much risk 
with her money. The fund she was advised to invest in involved mostly equity investments, 
and the investigator felt this was too risky for Mrs M based on both her attitude and capacity 
for risk. The investigator recommended that RLUM calculate the return Mrs M would have 
achieved had she invested 50% of the amount invested in the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index, and 50% using BOE + 1%.
RLUM agreed the complaint should be upheld but disagreed with the benchmark that the 
investigator suggested. They said that based on the date of the investment, they felt it would 
be fair to compare the whole amount invested, with the return available from BOE + 1%. 
They said that if the benchmark the investigator suggested was used, there would be a loss 
payable to Mrs M, but if they just used BOE + 1%, then there would be no loss to pay. They 
said they used BOE + 1% for the December sale, because they assessed Mrs Ms attitude to 
risk as being low and that is the same as the risk level the investigator suggested Mrs M 
should have taken in August. 
The investigator said that for the December advice, its arguable that Mrs M ought to have 
been advised to not invest at all, so BOE + 1% may have been too generous a benchmark 
and that the return from just BOE base rate may have been more appropriate. Regardless, 
there was no loss payable for the December advice, and she wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind about the August advice. RLUM were concerned that this was a change in 
approach, and so asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice given in August 1994
In August 1994 when they met Mrs M, the adviser completed a fact find document and it 
shows that Mrs M was retired, earning £2,400 per year. Her husband was present at the 
meeting and his income was recorded as £9,600 (gross) and was planning on retiring in 
around three years. They owned their house mortgage free and each held £1,500 in cash in 
bank accounts. Their monthly income would have been around £900 to £1,000 per month 
after tax and their joint expenditure was around £700 per month.
Between them they had three relatively small endowment policies with a few years left to 
maturity. Mr M had around £3,500 from a policy that had just matured, and they held £6,000 
each in Personal Equity Plans (PEPs).
Mrs Ms aim was to have a comfortable retirement. She was advised to invest £3,600 in the 
UK Income with Growth Trust, which I understand comprised of over 90% equity 
investments, and the rest fixed interest. All parties now agree that this represented too high 
a degree of risk for Mrs M to take, based on her circumstances in August 1994. For 
completeness, I also agree. The adviser did not record Mrs Ms attitude to risk at the sale. 
From the key features document, its clear that this fund included risk. I can see she had a 
small amount of investment experience, having invested in a PEP which, by definition, 
included risk. So, I think Mrs M would have known that risk was included in this investment 
and was willing to take some amount of risk. 
Ive carefully considered how much risk she ought to have been advised to take, given her 
circumstances. As a household, they appear to have had a sufficient level of income to cover 
expenditure, leaving between £200 and £300 disposable income each month, after tax. So, I 
think its likely shed have been able to make up for some potential losses. The amount 
invested appears to have come from a combination of cash held on deposit and the maturing 
endowment policy held by her husband. Mr and Mrs M were left with just under £3,000 in 
cash after investing in August 1994. Based on these circumstances Im convinced she could 
afford to take an amount of risk.
However, Im not persuaded that she could afford to take the level of risk involved in the UK 
Income with Growth Trust, due to the high level of potential fluctuations involved with that 
amount of equity content. Mr M was due to retire in around three years time, so their 
household income was likely to change. This is especially important given the adviser 
suggested that he needed to contribute more to his pension, in order to retire as comfortably 
as they wished. So, I dont think Mrs M had the capacity to make up for the potential losses 
that could be sustained in this Trust. 
Ive taken the above into account in considering an appropriate benchmark to use, to reflect 
the type of return Mrs M would have received had she invested at a suitable level of risk. I 
appreciate RLUM may have had experience of our service using simply the return from BOE 
+ 1% as a benchmark in similar complaints in the past. However, we consider each case on 
its own merits and what is fair and reasonable in one case, may not apply to others. The 
investigator suggested a mix of two measures as a suitable benchmark, and I agree that this 
is a fair and reasonable way of calculating whether there has been any financial loss. Ill 
explain why. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index tracks the performance of a 
basket of assets and is currently made up of around 50% equities, 30% fixed interest and 
cash, and 20% property and alternatives. The rate of interest provided by BOE + 1% is 
designed to reflect the general rates widely available in savings vehicles, including fixed rate 
bonds and bank/building society savings accounts. 
The mixture of those two measures, is designed to reflect a situation where Mrs Ms money 
was exposed to some actual market fluctuation, accounted for by the equity content in the 
index. As Im persuaded Mrs M was willing and able to take a small amount of risk, I think its 
fair that the benchmark used should reflect potential drops in the markets, as well as positive 
growth. 
BOE + 1% by itself, would always produce a positive return, which may be more or less than 
that produced by the 50/50 mixture Ive set out. Given its not possible to know exactly where 
shed have invested, I think a fair measure to use is a benchmark that involves slightly more 
risk, than the return reflected by BOE + 1% alone. In my view, the 50/50 mixture more 
accurately represents the sort of return Mrs M wouldve been able to achieve had she been 
given suitable advice. On that basis, Ive set out below how RLUM should go about 
calculating compensation. 
The advice given in December 1994
Im in agreement with the investigator that Mrs M ought not to have taken any risk in 
December 1994. Given the amount of her overall assets already at risk by December 1994, I 
dont think it was suitable for her to invest a further £3,000 in a fund that invested in just 
equities, as the UK Growth Trust did. 
While we dont know exact details of her assets in the December due to a lack of any fact 
find or suitability letter from that time, theres no evidence of Mrs M having received a 
windfall since the previous advice, or of her circumstances changing substantially. So, I think 
its likely the amount invested at this time came from the amount they were left with on 
deposit in August, of around £3,000, plus anything further theyd saved in the interim. This 
being all their remaining savings, Im satisfied that they ought not to have taken risk with 
their investment. 
Im mindful of the fact that Mrs M was able to tie the money away for many years after 
investing in the December. It appears they didnt need access to this amount for day to day 
spending. So, I dont think it would have been unsuitable for her to have placed at least 
some of this money into a savings account, or short-term fixed rate bonds, rather than 
leaving it in her current account. I think its likely that had she been suitably advised, she 
would have received interest over and above that produced by simply the BOE base rate. As 
such I think a fair benchmark for this investment would be BOE + 1%. 
RLUM have provided evidence that Mrs Ms actual investment outperformed the interest of 
BOE + 1%. As Im upholding this complaint, for completeness Ive included in the below the 
method RLUM should use to calculate whether redress is payable with regards to this 
investment.  
 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs 
M as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must RLUM do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, RLUM must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investments with that of the benchmarks 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
RLUM should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
UK Income 
with Growth 
Trust  
August 1994 
investmentNo longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: the 
interest rate 
provided by BOE 
+ 1%Date of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
UK Growth 
Trust  
December 
1994 
investmentNo longer in 
forceBOE + 1% Date of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investments at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investments would have been worth at the end date had they produced 
returns using the benchmarks.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on these methods of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
BOE + 1% would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that in August 1994 Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that 
she was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs M into that position. It does not 
mean that Mrs M would have invested 50% of her money in an account providing 
interest at the rate of BOE + 1% and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs M 
could have obtained from investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that RLUM Limited should pay the amount calculated 
as set out above.
RLUM Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mrs M in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman