DRN-3671110
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H and Mr H2 (their son) are unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did in 
response to seven separate claims Mr H2 made on their legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have legal expenses insurance with Amtrust (as part of their home insurance). 
Mr H2 is also covered by that insurance as he is a relative who permanently lives at their 
property. Mr H2 is unhappy Amtrust didnt progress seven claims he made on the policy from 
May 2021 onwards. He thinks all of these should have been referred to solicitors. 
Amtrust said two of the claims had been referred to solicitors but they didnt feel they had 
reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). For two claims, and based on 
the information Mr H2 had provided, it didnt think there was cover under the policy for them. 
And for the remaining three it thought the events giving rise to them had taken place prior to 
the policy start date (meaning they were excluded from cover). 
Our investigator thought Amtrust had acted fairly. She thought it was right to conclude five of 
the claims either werent covered by the policy or were excluded because the events giving 
rise to them took place before the policy started. For the remaining two claims Amtrust had 
asked solicitors to review whether these had prospects of success and she thought it 
reasonable of Amtrust to rely on their opinion that they didnt. 
Mr H2 didnt agree. He said he was never told the policy only offered before the event 
insurance (meaning cover wasnt available for things that happened prior to it being taken 
out). So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of the policy. For cover to be available an insured 
event needs to have taken place. That means the claim needs to fall within the we cover the 
following section of the legal expenses policy. That includes things like contract disputes, 
protection of property and employment. The onus is on a policyholder to show their claim 
falls within one of those sections. If that is the case the claim might still be caught by a 
condition or an exclusion in the policy. But its then for the insurer to show thats the case. 
In common with other legal expenses policies of this type, Mr H2s policy doesnt cover legal 
costs where the date of incident arose prior to the commencement of this Legal Expenses 
Cover. The relevant policy definition of date of incident is the date of the event; or the date 
of the first event where there is more than one event arising from the same cause. 
And the policy doesnt cover Legal costs where prospects of success do not exist. It 
defines prospects of success as Where we consider there is a 51% and above chance of 
succeeding with your claim and enforcing any award and that it would be reasonable to 
advise any private paying client in the same circumstances to pursue the claim.
Ive thought about how that applies to the claims Mr H2 made. For two claims (relating to the 
actions of the police and emails being posted online) Amtrust didnt feel there was cover 
available under the policy for these. Mr H2 disagreed but it doesnt appear hes provided 
Amtrust with further information on why that is (and hasnt been able to provide copies of the 
emails in question). As Ive explained it is for him to show he has a valid claim under the 
policy. Based on the available information, I dont think it was unreasonable of Amtrust to 
conclude that wasnt the case here and so these claims werent covered. 
I also think it was reasonable of Amtrust to conclude that for a claim which appears to relate 
to broadband, and based on information provided by Mr H2, the date of the incident was 
prior to the start of the policy. I think that exclusion would also apply to two other claims he 
made (about action he wanted to take against an individual and a limit being applied to an 
account he had with a financial business). Amtrust did ask Mr H2 if he had previous policies 
which might cover these claims but he wasnt able to provide further information on this. So I 
dont think it did anything wrong in advising cover wasnt available for them. 
Amtrust did accept cover was potentially available for two further claims Mr H2 made which 
both related to disputed transactions against separate banks. But for cover to be provided 
those claims need to have reasonable prospects of success. I think it was right Amtrust 
therefore referred them to panel solicitors so that could be assessed. And in both cases the 
assessment was they didnt (because the amounts in dispute had been refunded to Mr H2). 
Ive read those assessments which I think are properly written and reasoned and I dont see 
any reason why Amtrust shouldnt have relied on them. So again, I think it had reasonable 
grounds for deciding funding shouldnt be provided for these claims either. 
I appreciate Mr H2 has concerns about the type of policy he had. He says it wasnt made 
clear this was before the event legal expenses insurance and so wouldnt cover things that 
had already happened. But I think the policy is clear in relation to that. And legal expenses 
policies sold alongside home insurance dont normally cover things that have already 
happened. If Mr H2 had wanted a policy that would cover this then it was (and still is) open 
to him to try and obtain an after the event policy but, as our investigator has explained, that 
is likely to come at a significant cost. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr H, Mrs H and Mr H2 to accept or reject my decision before 
23 November 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman