DRN-3118814
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc approved her for a credit card account which
she feels was unaffordable for her at that time.
What happened
In 2017, Miss M applied for a HSBC credit account. Her application was approved, and Miss
M was issued with a credit card with a £1000 credit limit. In 2020, Miss M raised a complaint
with HSBC on the basis that she felt that HSBC should never have approved her for the
credit account because the credit had been unaffordable for her at the time of the application
and that this should have been apparent to HSBC at that time.
HSBC looked at Miss Ms complaint, but they noted that theyd undertaken checks into Miss
Ms position at the time of the credit account application and they felt that thered been
nothing resulting from those checks that should have made them consider that the credit
Miss M was being approved for might be unaffordable for her at that time.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Miss Ms HSBC current
account statements for the three months leading up to the credit application showed that
Miss M had exceeded the agreed overdraft limit for all three months. Our investigator felt this
meant that HSBC should have realised that Miss M was struggling to maintain her existing
credit with them such that the provision of further credit would have been unaffordable for
her. Because of this, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Miss
Ms favour.
HSBC didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 September 2021 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that, before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being 
offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
HSBC say that they did that here. They took details of Miss Ms income and 
expenditure which HSBC contend demonstrated that Miss M should have been able 
to afford any potential monthly repayments on the account. They reviewed Miss Ms 
existing HSBC current account which HSBC felt didnt preclude Miss M from being 
approved for the line of credit under consideration. And HSBC also obtained 
information from a credit reference agency to gain a better understanding of Miss Ms 
wider financial position. Furthermore, HSBC maintain that there was nothing resulting 
from any of these checks that they felt should have indicated to them that Miss M 
might not have been able to afford the credit for which she was applying.
In their review of this complaint, our investigator felt that the HSBC current account
statements for the three months leading up to the credit account application provided 
by Miss M, which showed that at the times of the statements dates that Miss Ms 
current account had exceeded the agreed overdraft amount on the account for all 
three months, meant that it should have been evident to HSBC that Miss M was 
struggling to maintain her existing HSBC overdraft such that the provision of further 
credit to Miss M shouldnt reasonably have taken place.
But its notable that the statements provided by Miss M only include the statement 
headers, and dont include the transaction list for each month. And while the 
statements do show that the current account balance exceeded the agreed overdraft 
amount on the date of the statements, they dont show for what period during each 
month the account balance had exceeded the agreed overdraft limit.
HSBC have confirmed that their internal checks included reviewing Miss Ms current 
account and while HSBC acknowledged that Miss M had exceeded her agreed 
overdraft limit on the current account, they explained that Miss M had only done so 
for a short period of time each month. This contention appears to be corroborated by 
Miss Ms credit file which includes the HSBC current account and which shows that 
the balance on the reporting date  which appears to have been a different date to 
the HSBC statement date - was under the agreed overdraft limit for all three months. 
Indeed, Miss Ms credit file demonstrates that there are no instances of the account 
ever being over the agreed overdraft limit on the credit file reporting date and as such 
there is no adverse reporting at all on Miss Ms credit file in relation to that account.
If it had been the case that Miss Ms credit file confirmed that she had exceeded the
overdraft limit on her current account then I would, in all likelihood, have confirmed 
the recommendation put forward by our investigator here. But given that the 
information available to me doesnt appear to suggest that Miss M consistently 
exceeded the agreed overdraft limit on her current account, but rather that she went 
over this limit periodically, but always made payments to her current account to bring 
the balance back within the limit so as to never incur any adverse credit reporting on 
that account, I dont feel that the fact that Miss Ms current account statements show 
the balance on the statement dates as being over the agreed overdraft limit 
necessarily means that HSBC should have considered that the provision of further 
credit to Miss M shouldnt have taken place.
This leads me to consider the credit-worthiness checks that HSBC undertook before
approving Miss Ms credit application in a different light, and given that these checks
included HSBC confirming that Miss Ms income and expenditure information meant 
that she ought reasonably have been able to afford any potential monthly payments 
on the credit account, and given that Miss Ms credit file information at the time of the 
application didnt demonstrate any reporting which might have suggested that she 
was struggling to maintain her existing credit accounts, I dont feel that I can fairly or 
reasonably conclude that HSBC, as a result of this information, should have 
considered that Miss M wouldnt have been able to afford the credit that shed 
applied for such that they shouldnt have approved that credit application.I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss M was wanting, but it follows from 
this that my provisional decision here will be that I do not uphold this complaint and 
that I wont be instructing HSBC to take any further action at this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Miss M and HSBC the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information that they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. 
HSBC confirmed that they had no further comments to make, and while Miss M expressed 
her dissatisfaction at my provisional decision, she didnt provide any further information and 
as such didnt provide anything that might give me cause to reconsider that provisional 
decision.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision in line with my provisional decision, 
and I can confirm that my final decision here will be that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman