DRN-3153213
The complaint
Mr F complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW).   
What happened
In June 2016 Mr F acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with BMW. The 
purchase price of the car was £27,776.80. Mr F made an advance payment of £2,331.14 
which meant that the total amount financed on this agreement was £25,445.66 payable over 
48 months.
Mr F explained that when his agreement was nearing its end, he made a request from BMW 
to extend the agreement with a payment deferral. This was to support Mr F as hed been 
affected financially as a result of the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr F said that hed 
previously had a payment deferral accepted by BMW in April 2020. Mr F says he didnt hear 
back from BMW about his latest request, so he contacted them again in June 2020 but was 
told the request had been declined and that he needed to return the car as the agreement 
had ended.
BMW confirmed in their system notes that Mr F had a deferred payment request declined in 
June 2020 as the agreement had an active repayment plan in place. The system notes also 
confirmed that an existing payment plan was in place for April and May 2020 and that the 
agreement ended on 1 June 2020.
Mr F says when he realised the payment deferral request had been declined, he arranged 
for the car to be collected on 14 July 2020. Mr F says BMW told him to have the car repaired 
prior to its collection, after he told them that it had sustained some damage. However, Mr F 
said the repairs were delayed due to the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on the repairing 
garage, so the collection date was rescheduled for 11 August 2020. BMW system notes 
confirm that Mr F contacted them in July 2020 to advise of the damage to the car and so 
rescheduled the collection for later in the month to allow for the repairs. The notes later say 
that due to delays with the repairing retailer the collection was rebooked for August 2020.
Mr F said that BMW contacted him prior to the collection date in August to advise that as the 
MOT had recently expired, he would have to renew it or pay for them to uplift the car. Mr F 
said BMW advised they werent able to reschedule the collection for the next day and 
booked it for 3 September 2020. BMW system notes show that the MOT expired on 1 
August 2020, so they contacted Mr F on 10 August 2020 to discuss the collection options 
and rearranged it for 3 September 2020.  Mr F said when the car was being picked up, the 
collection agent told him hed be charged for damage to the alloys. 
Mr F said he received a letter in October 2020 from BMW which said he was in arrears by 
£1,400 for the end of contract charges. Mr F complained to BMW disputing the charges. Mr 
F explained that hed asked BMW on more than one occasion if he could return the car 
himself but was told he couldnt do so. BMW system notes advise that the charges are for 
the damage to the alloys and for the late return of the car which all totalled to £1,400
On 21 December 2020, BMW provided their final response to Mr Fs complaint. They didnt 
uphold his complaint. They explained that the charges were applied fairly for the late return 
of the car and for the damage to the alloys that were beyond fair wear and tear.
Unhappy with their response Mr F brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Our 
investigator gave the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. The investigator felt that 
BMW were transparent about the potential charges and that it was Mr Fs responsibility to 
ensure the car was ready for collection.
Mr F responded to our investigator saying that BMW had told him to have the car repaired 
and had followed their instructions all along. Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr F 
asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The terms and condition surrounding the return of the car at the end of the contract is set out 
in the agreement. Under the section other charges, it says if the vehicle isnt made available 
for collection, they may charge for additional daily rentals until the vehicle is returned to 
them. It also says that charges will apply if the vehicle isnt returned in good repair and 
condition.
Mr F signed the agreement, so Im persuaded that hed had the opportunity to read the terms 
and so should reasonably have been aware of the potential end of contract charges. 
Having considered Mr F should have been aware of the charges that could be applied at the 
end of the contract Ive thought about whether BMW were fair to apply the them in the 
circumstances.
Mr F said when he told BMW of the damage to the car, they told him to repair it to avoid 
additional charges from them.  BMW have said they dont have a copy of the call recording 
to verify what had been said. Having reviewed BMWs system notes, I can see on 9 July 
2020 Mr F phoned in to advise of damage to his car. The notes then go on to say that the 
collection had been re booked for 31 July 2020. The notes make no reference to them 
advising or telling Mr F that he had to have the repairs carried out prior to collection. On 
balance I think its unlikely BMW would have told Mr F he had to have the repairs carried out. 
I say this because Mr F said that theyd told him it was to avoid additional charges, which 
suggests there remained the option to have the collection go ahead. So, from the evidence 
provided Im persuaded Mr F was given the option to go ahead with the collection on 14 July 
2020.
Mr F says the repair to the car was delayed due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
BMWs system notes show that although the car was scheduled for collection on 31 July 
2020, Mr F contacted them to cancel the collection and reschedule it. I dont doubt that there 
were delays to the repair of the car which I think was unfortunate in the circumstances. 
However, Mr F had the option to return the car before hand, and only didnt do so because he decided to have it repaired. So, I dont think itd be reasonable to ask BMW to waive fees 
for delays that were avoidable had the car been ready for collection on the initial date. 
The collection was rescheduled further due to the MOT expiring on 1 August 2020. BMW 
system notes states Mr F had an option to have the car uplifted which would come with an 
additional cost. In his complaint form Mr F says that he asked for the collection to be rebook 
for the following day but wasnt able to do so. In the circumstances I dont think it was 
unreasonable that BMW werent in a position to rearrange a collection until 3 September 
2020. 
Ive thought about the fact that it was an unprecedented and unusual time as the Covid-19 
pandemic presented challenges for many businesses and caused numerous delays. 
However, Im of the opinion that had Mr F had his car available for collection, BMW were in a 
position to collect it. And that would have been in spite of the Covid-19 pandemic.  Ive also 
considered that Mr F was given the option each time to either have the car collected with 
additional charges applied for an uplift or repairs, or to reschedule the collection; and on 
each occasion Mr F chose to reschedule the collection. And according to the terms of the 
agreement Mr F would be liable for additional rentals for not having the car available. 
Overall, I find that it was Mr Fs responsibility to ensure the car was in good repair with a 
valid MOT prior to collection or pay additional costs where appropriate. As this hadnt been 
done and Mr F opted to postpone the collection, Im satisfied that BMW were reasonable 
with the timescale they gave for the rescheduled collection and in applying the late collection 
charges.
I acknowledge Mr F says he hadnt used the car since the end of June 2020; although, I 
havent had any evidence to confirm this, I dont doubt what Mr F has said, however as it 
was in his possession and was still awaiting collection Im satisfied Mr F had use of it had he 
decided to. 
Mr F disputes the charges for the damage to alloys. In an email sent on 26 October 2020 Mr 
F explained that the there is an accepted allowance for damage on alloys to be within fair 
wear and tear, taking into consideration theyd been driven for four years. In consideration of 
what Mr F has said Im satisfied that he was aware a degree of damage was present on 
each alloy.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British vehicle lease and rental 
association (BVLRA), and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear on passenger cars, when they are 
returned to a BVRLA member at the end of a finance agreement. 
The collection report provided details of the damage to each alloy being beyond fair wear 
and tear. I have no reason to doubt the validity or accuracy of the charges, or that the 
inspection hadnt been carried out by an industry professional. So, having considered the 
evidence provided Im persuaded that BMW have applied the damage charges fairly and in 
line with the BVRLA standards. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman