DRN-3637948
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they were mis-sold a timeshare product and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as 
Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and Mrs D are represented by a 
claims management business, which Ill call M. Where I refer to Mr and Mrs Ds 
submissions, I include those made on their behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D were existing timeshare owners with Club La Costa Vacation Club (the 
Club). I have not been provided with details of that timeshare, save that it was financed by a 
different lender  not BPF. 
Mr and Mrs D say that, when they staying at the Club in November 2008, they explained 
they were having problems using their timeshare and were persuaded that buying Points 
Rights in the Club would help. 
On 13 November 2008 Mr and Mrs D bought 300 Points Rights from Club La Costa (UK) Plc 
(CLC) at a cost of £3,799. The purchase price was provided through a BPF loan to Mrs D 
for £22,052. That sum included consolidation of the loan which had been used to pay for the 
existing timeshare. 
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs D contacted BPF. They said they had been misled into buying 
the Points Rights. Because BPF had financed the purchase, it was liable to them along with 
CLC, under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. In addition, they have said, 
either in their initial complaint or subsequently:
BPF was guilty of procuring a breach of fiduciary duty, since CLC was acting as agent 
for Mr and Mrs D.
CLC had used pressured sales techniques to persuade them to buy.
They were told that members would have exclusive use of the Club, but that was not 
true.
The contract was in perpetuity. 
CLC was in breach of regulation 26 of The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations).
Parts of the contract were unfair within the meaning of the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).
No proper assessment had been carried out to establish whether the loan was 
affordable.     
The effect of these matters was that the loan agreement created an unfair relationship 
under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act. 
BPF did not accept the arguments made on behalf of Mr and Mrs D. It pointed out that, as 
the sole borrower, only Mrs D could make a complaint about the loan agreement. It also 
noted that some parts of the complaint were likely to be out of time, since they concerned 
events which had happened more than six years previously. 
The complaint was referred to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld  primarily 
because of the time that had elapsed since the sale. 
Mr and Mrs D did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.    
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
M says that BPF did not properly assess the affordability or suitability of the loan, and that it 
was consolidated with Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage, which they have had some difficulty 
paying. I have not been provided with any further information or evidence about that.  
Our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint.  
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in November 2008. No complaint was made until nearly ten years later  It is at 
least arguable therefore that this part of the complaint should have been referred to this 
service by no later than 13 November 2014  six years from the date Mrs D out the loan  
and that, because it was not, we have no power to consider it. 
I have nevertheless considered the position on the basis that Mrs D was not aware that she 
had cause for complaint  because she might not have known that BPF should have carried 
out checks. She has said that she had difficulty repaying the loan, but has not said when that 
came to light.  
I note that the loan was repaid in April 2017. I note too that Mrs D says it was consolidated 
into her and Mr Ds mortgage. The account statements however show that no payments 
were missed in the time the account was open, and there is no suggestion that Mrs D ever 
contacted BPF to say she was having difficulty making payments. So, even if BPF should 
have carried out further checks, it does not appear that Mrs Ds position would have been 
materially different. 
It is significant too that more than 80% of the loan was to consolidate existing borrowing for 
the timeshare. Mrs D already owed that money, whatever BPFs lending decision in 
November 2008. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the Points Rights. CLC is named 
as the seller in both the timeshare contract and in the loan agreement. I am satisfied 
therefore that section 56 and 75 can apply and have therefore considered the effect of what 
Mr and Mrs D have said about the sale itself. 
Misrepresentation and breach of contract
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
A breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract does not fulfil its obligations to the 
other. That is, it does not do what it has agreed to do or does not provide what it has agreed 
to provide. 
However, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on contract 
(which includes claims for misrepresentation) cannot generally be brought after six years 
from the date on which the cause of action accrued. 
Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs D into the contract for the November 
2008 purchase of Points Rights were made on or before 13 November 2008; since they 
were already Club members, its possible that Mr and Mrs D relied on what they were told or 
their own experiences even before that. They did not however raise any complaint with BPF 
until October 2018, nearly ten years later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would 
conclude that any claim for misrepresentation was made outside the time limit in the 
Limitation Act. 
Mrs D has not alleged any specific breach of contract here. M has said that some contract 
terms were unfair and that CLC breached the Timeshare Regulations. I will discuss those 
allegations later, but neither constitutes a breach of contract. Even if I were to take a 
different view on that, a court is likely to take the view that any claim for breach of contract 
based on them would now be out of time.       

I would however note that, in its response to the claim, BPF said that any claim under 
section 75 is limited to £3,799, the purchase price of the Points Rights. That is not correct. A 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation could exceed both the amount of any loan 
used to finance the transaction and the purchase price. And the debtor could bring that claim 
against a creditor in the same way as against a seller. 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. I think there is a real possibility that a court would say that the 
claims against CLC are time-barred in this case. That is an argument that would also be 
available to BPF if it had to respond to a section 75 claim. In the circumstances, I think 
BPFs response was reasonable.    
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties, refunding payments and re-opening an agreement which has come to an end. In considering whether a credit agreement creates and unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any connected agreement, which in this case could include the contract with CLC. 
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. The relationship between Mrs D and BPF in 
this case ended when the loan was refinanced, in April 2017. I have therefore considered the 
points she has made. 
There is little to no evidence about the sale process itself, other than Ms assertion that it 
was high-pressured. In line with laws designed to protect timeshare buyers, however, Mr and 
Mrs D had 14 days in which to cancel both the purchase agreement and the loan agreement. 
If they felt they had been unduly pressured into the purchase, I think it likely that they would 
have availed themselves of that right. 
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act, CLC acted as agent for BPF, not as Mrs Ds 
agent. I am not persuaded therefore that it owed any fiduciary duty towards her, or that BPF 
procured, or could have procured, a breach of any such duty. CLC sold the Points Rights 
and introduced Mrs D to BPF. It was not her financial adviser and was not recommending 
any particular financial product from a range of products.   
The contract was not in perpetuity. The Club is to be dissolved in 2054. That was set out in 
the contract itself. In some circumstances, members may be able to relinquish their 
membership early. Mrs D has not said whether she has tried to do so.  
There was no breach of regulation 26 (or of any other part) of the Timeshare Regulations. 
The contract pre-dates their coming into force in February 2011. And regulation 26 concerns 
payments for long-term holiday product contracts defined in regulation 8. Mr and Mrs Ds 
contract was for a timeshare, defined in regulation 7. 
Even if there were a breach of the Timeshare Act 1992 or of the Timeshare Regulations 
1997 (which applied at the time), that would not necessarily give rise to a claim which an 
individual Club member could bring against CLC. Nor would it necessarily mean that the 
loan agreement created an unfair relationship between Mrs D and BPF.  
M says that some terms of the contract are unfair within the definition in UTCCR. That is 
not for me to say, although I must have regard to relevant law, including UTCCR. The 
remedy if a contractual provision is unfair is however that the provision is unenforceable 
against the consumer  not that the whole contract falls. Mrs D has not said whether any of 
the provisions which she says is unfair has been relied on by CLC or what the effect has 
been on her.                
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a court would have said that the loan agreement 
created an unfair relationship between Mrs D and BPF. It follows that BPFs response to this 
part of the complaint was reasonable. 
I did not uphold the complaint. 
BPF acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and said that it had nothing further to 
add. M did not respond to it within the time I allowed for further submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has raised any new arguments or provided any further evidence, I see no 
reason to change the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint and I do not 
require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited to do anything more to resolve it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman