DRN-2267816
The complaint
Mr S complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited wont provide a refund of his car 
insurance premium for when he was unable to use his car because of Covid-19. 
What happened
Mr S took out a 12-month car insurance with Haven which started on 23 March 2020. The 
country was put into lockdown at the same time and people were told to stay home. Because 
of this Mr S said he was unable to use his car. As Mr S was unable to use his car he 
complained to Haven and asked for a refund. 
Haven looked into Mr Ss complaint and issued its final response letter in May 2020. It said 
they were unwilling to issue a retrospective refund and if Mr S would like to amend his policy, 
he should speak with his broker who would do this on Havens behalf. As Mr S wasnt happy 
with Havens response, he brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt recommended it was upheld. She 
found that Haven had explained to Mr S in its final response letter what he was able to do if 
his circumstances had changed. She also didnt think it was fair and reasonable to ask 
Haven to provide a retrospective refund of his insurance premiums. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed been passed between Haven and his insurance broker and 
that it wasnt fair he was asked to pay for something he couldnt use. Mr S said he knew 
other people who Haven, and his broker, had issued refunds to. He also said he had to have 
his car insured as it was kept on the road outside his house. 
As Mr S didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has also raised a complaint about the broker for his policy. In this decision Im only able 
to consider the actions of Haven. I will respond to Mr Ss complaint about his broker 
separately under that complaint. 
When Mr S took out his policy it was to insure his car for 12 months. He agreed to this in 
return for paying the premium to Haven. Given the date he took his policy out I can 
understand why hes unhappy that hes paying for something hes not able to use as he 
intended. Ive therefore looked at whether I think Haven treated him in a fair and reasonable 
way when he asked for a refund. 
When Haven looked into Mr Ss request it explained that it wouldnt provide a retrospective 
refund of his premiums. Haven also said though that if Mr S would like to amend his policy 
then he should contact his broker who would be able to do this for him, on Havens behalf. I 
dont think Haven have did anything wrong when it said these things and Ill explain why. 
As Mr S has said its a legal requirement to have your car insured when its on the road. Hes 
also said he wasnt able to, and hadnt, taken it off the road and declared it SORN. While Mr 
S wasnt able to use his car as intended, it still needed to be insured and Haven were still 
covering some risk even though he wasnt driving it. So, I dont think Haven did anything 
wrong by saying it wouldnt provide a retrospective refund.
Ive also considered Mr Ss point about Haven providing refunds to friends of his. While I can 
understand it seems unfair if a friend has had a refund and you havent. Ive not seen 
anything to show Haven have been treating other customers differently. So, Im not going to 
tell Haven to do anything more. 
In summary, I know this will be disappointing to Mr S but I think Havens decision not provide 
a retrospective refund to Mr S was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman