DRN-3656129
The complaint
Ms W complains about poor service from HSBC UK Bank Plc and about difficulties she 
experienced trying to use telephone banking.
What happened
To summarise, in late 2021 and continuing into early 2022, Ms W had problems using 
HSBCs telephone banking services. Shed failed the banks security checks, so access to 
telephone banking was temporarily suspended. She was able to restore her access by 
resetting her security details, but subsequently failed security again. 
Ms W feels that staff in branch and at HSBCs contact centre didnt understand her and 
didnt do their jobs properly. She said she spent a considerable amount of time on the phone 
and in branch trying to resolve things and restore her telephone banking access. The 
suspensions left her unable to manage her account. 
Ms W complained. In final response letters dated 7 December 2021 and 6 April 2022, HSBC 
said it was sorry Ms W hadnt been happy with the customer service shed received. It 
offered its reassurance that her feedback had been recorded for future review, as part of its 
ongoing service development. 
Ms W wasnt satisfied, so brought her complaint to this service. When responding to 
requests from our service, HSBC provided fuller information about the contact with Ms W 
over these issues, including call recordings and case notes. Our investigator didnt think 
HSBC had treated Ms W unfairly, so didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms W asked for an ombudsman to review her case and issue a final decision. Im aware Ms 
W has raised other complaints about HSBC, so to clarify, my decision relates solely to the 
issues set out above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge the frustration Ms Ws expressed about what happened. 
Having reviewed her case, I can see she found trying to resolve the difficulties she 
encountered stressful and feels poorly treated by HSBC. Ms W says the problems she had 
were down to HSBCs staff. So I have to decide if thats the case and if HSBC treated her 
unfairly in any way.
Ive reviewed the contact Ms W had with HSBC. There were a number of calls, as well as 
branch attendance. From what Ive heard and from the other evidence provided, I think 
HSBCs staff tried to help Ms W with her queries and treated her fairly and respectfully. For 
example, in calls in late November and early December 2021, Ms W was told by HSBC staff 
that her telephone banking services were suspended and that she needed a new telephone 
security number (TSN). 
In a call on 5 December 2021, Ms W is again told that telephone banking is suspended. The 
call handler gives her information about how she can reset her TSN - which she was 
subsequently able to do - and takes details of the complaint Ms W wishes to raise about the 
contact centre and a local branch. 
Unfortunately, in late January 2022, Ms W again encountered problems. I think the call 
handler tried, as far as she reasonably could, to help Ms W by asking additional questions. 
But, finding the process increasingly frustrating and stressful, Ms W was unable to complete 
the security checks successfully and her access to telephone banking was suspended once 
more.
I accept there were communication issues. There were some difficulties with the quality of 
sound. And I think on occasion Ms W found the accent of the call handler hard to 
understand, sometimes resulting in both parties speaking at once. I also think there was 
confusion on Ms Ws part between the suspension of her telephone banking services, the 
action required to restore the service and general access her account. Ms Ws account 
remained active throughout and she was still able to use her debit card. 
Comprehension and clear communication were further compromised by Ms Ws increasing 
frustration and distress about what was an ongoing problem. At times, Ms W tells the 
handlers its making me ill and that shes sick of it. But I think HSBC responded positively 
and politely to Ms W and tried to help with her queries. 
Its regrettable that, at times, they were unable to assist as Ms W wanted, for example, by 
providing information about transactions and refunds. But this was because of the security 
failures and consequent suspension of telephone banking services. 
Banks are required to keep their customers information secure and safeguard their funds. 
The telephone security checks are there to prevent unauthorised access to the account and 
minimise the risk of fraud. HSBCs terms explain when access to services may be restricted 
and I think HSBC has acted reasonably, in line with those terms. 
So overall, I dont think HSBC treated Ms W unfairly in suspending her access to telephone 
banking services when she failed security. Or, from what Ive seen and heard, in its contact 
with her. It follows I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Jo ChilversOmbudsman