DRN-2726779
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) acted unfairly 
by failing to negotiate a settlement when she sought to end a hire purchase agreement for a 
car early. 
What happened
In June 2018 Mrs H entered in to a four-year hire purchase agreement for a new car. This 
agreement was in the form of a Personal Contract Purchase meaning when the agreement 
matured Mrs H could choose to pay the optional final payment and keep the car, hand it 
back or use it in part exchange for another car.
Unfortunately, Mrs H became aware that her financial circumstances were going to be 
changing in or around December 2020 and that the monthly car payments were going to 
become unaffordable. She contacted MBFS to make enquiries about what her options would 
be in regard to returning the car and ending the agreement early.
MBFS informed Mrs H that there were three options available to her under the agreement. 
She could voluntary terminate the agreement and return the car which would leave a 
shortfall of £4,200 to pay; she could hand the car back and pay a shortfall of £9,756 or sell 
the car and pay a settlement amount of £20,100.
Mrs H says the market value of the car was between £15,000 and £16,000 and so each of 
these options left her with a significant financial burden when her circumstances were going 
to be difficult. Mrs H asked MBFS to negotiate with her in order that a workable and 
achievable settlement figure could be agreed between them. Mrs H says she asked MBFS to 
agree to a settlement figure of £17,000 and for her to sell the car.
MBFS declined Mrs Hs offer and she complained to it. MBFS explained that the settlement 
payment wasnt based on the market value of the car. It said the quotes it had provided were 
based on the remaining amount Mrs H had left to pay under the agreement in relation to the 
amount it had paid out of the car and the agreed repayments under the agreement. 
Mrs H was unhappy at MBFSs response and complained to this service. She said MBFS 
hadnt looked at her case as an individual matter and it had failed to treat her fairly or 
sympathetically.
She also raised The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 7 which sets out that 
lenders should consider consumers in default or arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration. She also raised 7.14 which covers settlements, disputed and deadlock 
debt. She said MBFS should have done the following:
Considered the reasonable offer of payment she had made
Given clear reasons why it had rejected the offer
If rejecting, then it should not engage in conduct that has the effect of intimidating the 
customer
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. He said that 
CONC 7 applied when a consumer was in arrears which wasnt currently Mrs Hs position 
but, in any event, he thought that MBFS had acted fairly. It had agreed two periods of 
payment holidays for her, calculated the settlement in line with The Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004 and raised the option of a payment plan for any remaining 
balance.
Mrs H disagreed with our investigators view. She said that MBFS should have been open to 
negotiating the settlement figure and it had not made any reasonable offer to end this 
agreement in a reasonable manner. The settlement figure was calculated on what she would 
have paid but MBFS was also getting the car back early which resulted in her shouldering 
the bigger financial impact. Mrs H said it would be fair if she could end this agreement facing 
the minimum financial burden. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs H has suffered a change in her financial circumstances and now finds 
herself in a position that the credit agreement for the car is no longer affordable. She has 
reached the decision where she wishes to terminate the agreement and return the car.
When considering whether a credit provider has acted fairly where a consumer is struggling 
to meet their obligations under a credit agreement then I need to have regard to the relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, codes of practice and what I would consider to be 
good industry practice. This is the approach that was also taken by our investigator.
The hire purchase agreement entered into by Mrs H is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. This Act sets out the procedure to be followed for an agreement is to be settled early 
and says that early settlement figures should be calculated using the rules provided by The 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations. MBFS has applied these rules when 
working out the settlement figure due under Mrs Hs agreement.
As explained by our investigator, the early settlement figure is based on what remaining 
monthly payments are due under the agreement and not the actual value of the asset. It 
should also be noted that part of this calculation includes an interest rebate to account for 
the future interest that is no longer needed to be paid as the agreement is being settled 
early. 
While I appreciate Mrs H feels strongly that MBFS has acted unfairly applying this formula to 
calculate her early settlement figure due to her particular circumstances, Im afraid I cant 
agree. MBFS has complied with the legislation and I cant say it has any obligation to 
disregard the rules that are in place though I accept it would have a discretion to do so. But I 
think the operating of any such discretion is a matter for the business and I cant fairly 
criticise it if it chooses not to do so. I also cant reasonably say that the calculation itself 
results in an unfair outcome for a consumer since it is set by the legislation in place.
Mrs H also says that MBFS hasnt treated with her forbearance and due consideration 
because it wont enter into negotiations as to how to settle her agreement. But I dont think 
treating consumers positively and sympathetically means that the business has to 
automatically consider writing off debts or reducing the amount of an outstanding settlement. 
I think its important to note that there isnt a set process that businesses have to follow to 
treat its customers fairly when they experience financial hardship.What I would reasonably expect a business to do is offer assistance and be sympathetic to 
those consumers who struggled to meet their financial commitments. And the sort of steps I 
would be expecting to see would be actions such as payment holidays or the setting of 
payment plans to settle outstanding debts.
Here, Ive seen that Mrs H was allowed to have two payment holidays though she says that 
as these meant her monthly payments subsequently increased, they werent really in the 
spirit of treating consumers sympathetically. However, Ive seen MBFS set out very clearly 
the impact on the subsequent monthly payments if a holiday was taken. It also set out that 
the payments increased in order that the agreement period itself wasnt extended resulting in 
additional cost to the consumer. These holiday periods were allowing a break from making 
the monthly payments when they fell due, without putting the agreement into arrears. I think 
in these circumstances its reasonable for the following monthly payments to then increase. 
Mrs H had also signed and agreed to be bound to the terms and conditions of the credit 
agreement which included the amount of interest that would be payable and the length of the 
agreement.
Ive seen that MBFS has raised that it would be willing to discuss suitable payment plans for 
any outstanding shortfall under the agreement once the car has been returned. I think this 
shows that MBFS is willing to discuss with Mrs H the early termination of her agreement.
So, although I appreciate that returning the car and terminating the agreement early will 
leave Mrs H with a financial burden, I cant say that MBFS has acted unfairly in its approach. 
It has provided information as to her options, allowed payment holidays and is willing to look 
at payment plans once the car is returned. I think its fair to say MBFS has acted in 
accordance with the agreement, the legislation and industry practice. I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to require it in these circumstances to reduce the settlement balance. I 
am not therefore upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman