DRN-4472324
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited didnt pay compensation into
her pension plan as shed requested. Mrs D says that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited
paid the compensation directly to her instead and she has suffered a financial loss as a
result.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision, which I issued last month. 
My provisional decision said:
What happened
Mrs D held a pension plan with Aviva. Mrs D has been resident in Canada since 2005. In
2022 Mrs D received recommendations from her financial adviser to transfer her Aviva
pension plan to a self-invested pension plan (SIPP) with a different pension provider. In this
decision I will refer to the provider of Mrs Ds SIPP as Firm A.
In July 2022 Aviva received a transfer request from Firm A. However, Mrs Ds Aviva pension
wasnt transferred to Firm A until late November 2022. Aviva has admitted that it delayed the
transfer and that if it hadnt been for their errors Mrs Ds pension transfer would have
completed in early September 2022.
Mrs D complained to Aviva about the delays in completing her pension transfer in
September 2022. Aviva responded to Mrs Ds complaint in December 2022. Aviva confirmed
details of the delays that theyd caused to Mrs Ds pension transfer and offered Mrs D £400
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered. Aviva also offered to carry
out an assessment to determine if Mrs D had suffered a financial loss due to their errors.
In March 2023 Aviva wrote to Mrs D with details of their loss assessment. Aviva said that if
Mrs Ds pension transfer had completed in September 2022, instead of when it did complete
in November 2022, then a higher transfer value would have been paid to Firm A. Avivas
assessment identified that the financial loss suffered by Mrs D was £3,143.22. Aviva said
that they would compensate Mrs D for this loss.
In their letter of March 2023 Aviva went on to say: Ive therefore arranged for an additional
payment to be made to you totalling £2,671.74. As any pension payment made directly to a 
customer would be taxed, weve made the same assumption, so 25% is tax free and the rest 
is the same as if basic rate tax had been deducted. However, this doesnt need to be
reported to HMRC as this is a compensation payment.
Mrs D has said that she had told Aviva that she wanted compensation paid into her Firm A
pension and not directly to her. Mrs D therefore complained again to Aviva about the way in
which they had paid compensation to her.
Aviva wrote to Mrs D again in March 2023 in response to her further complaint. In this letter
Aviva said: However, our policy is to pay compensation for financial loss outside the
framework of the relevant pension scheme, rather than into your pension. It allows us to
settle your claim in a reasonable timeframe and prevents us from having to ask complex
questions to ensure that we are not causing further difficulties for you in terms in terms of tax
charges and limits on allowable contributions.
Aviva went on to say: The fact that you are currently living outside the UK also affects the
question of whether it is possible for the compensation to be paid into your pension. If it is
able to accept them, you would be free to pay this amount as a contribution yourself.
Mrs D wasnt happy with Avivas response. Mrs D says that she will need to declare the
compensation payment to the Canadian tax authorities in her 2023 tax return. Mrs D says
that she will then have tax to pay in Canada on the compensation payment.
Mrs D brought her complaint about the way in which Aviva had paid compensation to her to
the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators considered Mrs Ds complaint.
The Investigator upheld Mrs Ds complaint and said that Aviva should pay the loss of
£3,143.22 into Mrs Ds Firm A pension, or if this wasnt possible, Aviva should give Mrs D
documentation to confirm the compensation paid directly to her was notionally taxed at
source.
Aviva didnt agree with the Investigators view, so Mrs Ds complaint has been brought to an
Ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has admitted that it delayed the transfer of Mrs Ds pension to Firm A. Aviva has
completed a loss calculation which has identified that, due to their delay in completing the
pension transfer, Mrs D suffered a financial loss of £3,143.22.
I dont think that the delays that Aviva caused to Mrs Ds pension transfer, or the loss
calculation completed by Aviva, are disputed by Mrs D. Instead, I think that Mrs Ds
complaint is about the way that Aviva paid compensation to her and that she will now have
to pay tax in Canada on the compensation payment.
Mrs D has said she told Aviva that compensation should be paid into her Firm A SIPP and
not directly to her. However, Aviva has paid compensation directly to Mrs D.
Aviva has explained that because they paid the compensation directly to Mrs D, they made a
notional deduction for tax. Aviva has said that this is because any pension payment made to
Mrs D would be liable to tax, after allowing for a 25% tax free cash entitlement. Aviva made
a notional tax deduction of 20% against 75% of the compensation payment. Aviva therefore
paid compensation of £2,671.74 to Mrs D.Mrs D has said that if Aviva had not caused delays in completing her pension transfer, then
the loss adjustment of £3,143.22 would have been included in the transfer value that Aviva
paid to Firm A.
Mrs D has therefore claimed that due to these delays Aviva miscalculated the transfer value
that it paid to Firm A in November 2022. Mrs D has further claimed that the loss adjustment
of £3,143.22 is not compensation but is instead part of the transfer value that Aviva should
have paid into her Firm A pension. Mrs D says that Aviva should now pay £3,143.22 into her
Firm A pension as a transfer value from her Aviva pension plan.
However, I dont think that this is right. I say this because when Aviva completed the transfer
of Mrs Ds pension in November 2022, they correctly calculated the transfer value applying
to Mrs Ds Aviva pension plan at that time. I therefore dont think that Aviva miscalculated the
transfer value that it paid to Firm A in November 2022.
Aviva were Mrs Ds pension provider and administrator of her pension plan. Aviva has
admitted that it caused a delay in completing the transfer of Mrs Ds pension to Firm A. Aviva
then completed a loss assessment to calculate the financial loss that Mrs D suffered due to
their errors. Aviva have then paid Mrs D compensation to cover the financial loss she has
suffered.
I therefore think that loss adjustment of £3,143.22 calculated by Aviva is a compensation
payment and is not a transfer value.
Mrs D has provided evidence from HMRC and MoneyHelper to help support her claim that
the payment of £3,143.22 offered by Aviva is part of the transfer value that applied to her
Aviva pension and therefore can be paid by Aviva into her Firm A pension as a transfer
value.
However, when Mrs D contacted HMRC she told them: Last year when I instructed my UK
personal pension scheme providers to transfer my pensions into my (Firm A) SIPP Aviva
made an error in their calculations and later calculated a loss assessment.
However, as Ive said above, I dont think this is correct. I dont think that Aviva made an
error in their calculations. I think that Aviva correctly calculated the transfer value of Mrs Ds
pension when they completed the pension transfer in November 2022. I therefore think that
HMRC had been told by Mrs D that Avivas error was to incorrectly calculate her transfer
value, but I dont think that this was the case.
The reply that Mrs D has received from MoneyHelper refers to a telephone conversation with
Mrs D. MoneyHelper say in their written reply to Mrs D: you mentioned that the additional
amount was due to a miscalculation of the transfer value. But as Ive said above, I dont
think that Aviva miscalculated Mrs Ds transfer value. I therefore think that MoneyHelpers
reply was based on this wrong information.
Mrs D has said that she became resident in Canada in 2005. Mrs D has therefore not been
resident in the UK at any time during the five tax years before the current 2023/24 tax year.
Mrs D has also said that she has no UK earned income.
I think that this means that a tax relieved pension contribution cannot be paid into Mrs Ds
Firm A pension plan.
As Ive said above, when Aviva made their offer of £2,671.74 to Mrs D, they explained that:
As any pension payment made directly to a customer would be taxed, weve made the
same assumption, so 25% is tax free and the rest is the same as if basic rate tax had beendeducted. However, this doesnt need to be reported to HMRC as this is a compensation
payment.
Mrs D has said that she wants Aviva to provide her with a tax receipt so that she has
evidence of the tax that Aviva have deducted from her compensation payment. However,
Aviva have said: The cash compensation is reduced by a notional amount which takes into
account that had the money been in a pension until retirement 25% would be tax free and
75% would be taxable at basic rate. Therefore there is no tax certificate to be issued as no
tax has been deducted it is a notional deduction only.
I think that Avivas has explained why they deducted notional tax from the compensation
payment and has also explained that the deduction is only for notional tax and not for any
actual tax deducted and paid to HMRC. Aviva therefore also explain why they are unable to
issue a tax receipt as Mrs D has requested.
Mrs D has said that without a tax receipt she will pay extra tax on the compensation payment
in Canada. Mrs D is unhappy about this as it will mean that she has had notional tax
deducted from her compensation payment by Aviva and will then also pay a tax charge in
Canada.
In response to Mrs D, Aviva have said: If Mrs D incurs any tax in Canada on the
compensation then she should submit a claim to us so she is not worse off. We would need
evidence of the tax charge to be provided then we would assess this further claim for
compensation.
I think that Aviva are saying that should Mrs D have to pay tax on her compensation
payment in Canada then, if she notifies Aviva and provides evidence of the amount of tax
paid, Aviva will then compensate her for the Canadian tax. I think that Avivas offer to
compensate Mrs D for any additional tax that she pays in Canada is reasonable.
I therefore think, as Ive outlined above, that its not possible for a tax relieved pension
contribution to be paid into Mrs Ds Firm A SIPP. I also think that the payment of £2,671.74
made to Mrs D by Aviva is a compensation payment. I also think that as Aviva deducted
notional tax from Mrs Ds compensation payment then they are unable to produce a tax
receipt, as Mrs D wants.
However, Mrs D has said that she will now incur a tax liability in Canada on the
compensation payment paid to her by Aviva, and as Aviva made no account of this possible
tax charge when they paid compensation to her, I am upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, I think that Aviva has now said that it will make a further payment to Mrs
D to cover any Canadian tax that she has to pay on the compensation payment of £2,671.74
that she has received from Aviva. As Ive also said above, I think that this is reasonable.
I therefore think that if Mrs D does have to pay tax in Canada on Avivas compensation
payment of £2,671.74 when she submits her 2023 Canadian tax return, then Aviva should
compensate her for the additional Canadian tax.
However, as this will result in Aviva making a second compensation payment to Mrs D, I
think that its reasonable to assume that Mrs D may then have a further Canadian tax liability
on this second compensation payment when she submits her Canadian 2024 tax return.
Should this be the case, then I think it reasonable that Aviva should calculate the gross
compensation that would need to be paid to Mrs D to cover both any additional Canadian taxthat would be payable on this second compensation payment, as well as any Canadian tax
liability on the first compensation payment of £2,671.74.
The resultant gross compensation should then be paid to Mrs D. Otherwise, I dont think that
Aviva need to take any further action.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK
Limited and that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should compensate Mrs D as I have
detailed above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mrs D and Aviva have responded to my provisional decision.
Aviva has said that theyre in agreement with my provisional decision.
Mrs D has said Avivas loss assessment should have been completed on the basis that her 
transfer value was calculated on either 18 or 19 August 2022, had it not been for Avivas 
errors. Mrs D claims that this was when Aviva were in receipt of all documentation needed 
for the transfer to proceed.
Mrs D has also said that the value of her Aviva pension on 19 August 2022 was £45,169.35, 
and therefore this is the value that Aviva should have used in their loss assessment. Mrs D 
has further said that its this error in Avivas calculation of her transfer value to which she has 
previously referred.
Aviva sent Mrs D an email on 3 February 2023 with details of their loss assessment 
calculation. Aviva had contacted Mrs Ds SIPP provider to obtain unit holding information so 
that they could complete their calculation. In this letter Aviva confirmed that the transfer 
value used in their calculations was £45,169.35. This is the same figure that Mrs D says 
Aviva should use and therefore I dont think that Aviva made an error in the calculation of her 
transfer value in their loss assessment, as Mrs D has said. Instead, I think that Aviva used 
the transfer value that Mrs D has said should be used.
Aviva completed their loss assessment calculation on the basis that Mrs Ds pension transfer 
of £45,169.35 would have completed on 2 September 2022, had it not been for their errors. I 
think that this is because Aviva has allowed a period for the transfer to complete, once they 
were in receipt of all documentation, which I dont think is unreasonable.
When Aviva completed their loss assessment calculation, they told Mrs D that if her adviser 
wanted to question any of the calculations then they would be happy to look at any of their 
comments or evidence. Ive not seen any evidence to show that Mrs Ds financial adviser 
has questioned Avivas loss calculation. 
The compensation calculated from Avivas loss assessment has been paid to Mrs D and I 
think that Mrs Ds complaint is about the way that Aviva paid the compensation to her, and 
not about the amount of compensation paid. I also dont think that Aviva made an error in the 
calculation of her transfer value.Mrs D has also said that the compensation calculated by Aviva could be treated under the 
Small lump sum payments made after transfer-out guidance in PTM063700. 
However, I think that this guidance would apply when a member retains small rights in a 
registered pension scheme after a transfer out has been completed. Any such small lump 
sum could then be treated as an authorised member payment provided that certain 
conditions are met. Any such payment would however be subject to tax, and details of the 
tax rules applying are also set out in the guidance.
But I dont think that this guidance would apply in this case. I think that Mrs D fully 
transferred out the pension benefits in her Aviva plan in November 2022 and Ive not seen 
any evidence to show that Mrs D retained any rights in her Aviva pension thereafter. 
Aviva wrote to Mrs D on 31 October 2022 to explain that if her transfer proceeded then they 
would write to Mrs Ds SIPP provider to ask for further information to allow them to complete 
their loss assessment. Aviva went on to say that once their loss assessment was complete 
then they would let Mrs D know their findings.
As Ive said above, Aviva then set out full details of their loss assessment to Mrs D in their 
email of 3 February 2023, once theyd heard back from Mrs Ds SIPP provider. In this email 
Aviva confirmed that they had calculated the difference in the transfer value paid to Mrs Ds 
SIPP on 24 November 2022 and the transfer value that would have been paid on 2 
September 2022, had their errors not delayed the transfer.
Aviva went on to explain that they had contacted Mrs Ds SIPP provider to establish the unit 
holdings that had been purchased in Mrs Ds SIPP when the transfer completed on 24 
November 2022 as well as the unit holdings that would have been purchased had the 
transfer completed on 2 September 2022. 
Aviva set out details of each set of unit purchases, and the difference in value between 
them, and their assessment identified that Mrs D had suffered a financial loss. Aviva then 
confirmed the amount of financial loss suffered, which was £3,143.22, and this figure was 
used to compensate Mrs D.
I therefore dont think that Aviva miscalculated Mrs Ds transfer value, or that the 
compensation is a pension supplemental transfer value as Mrs D has claimed. I also dont 
think that Mrs D retained any pension benefits within her Aviva pension plan once the 
transfer out was completed on 24 November 2022.
Instead, I think that Aviva completed an assessment to confirm the financial loss that Mrs D 
had suffered due to the delays that Aviva had caused. The loss assessment was completed 
using information provided by Mrs Ds new SIPP provider to establish the difference in unit 
holdings purchased, as Ive explained above. 
I therefore still think that the loss of £3,143.22 calculated by Aviva is a compensation 
payment, as I said in my provisional decision.
I will now turn to how Aviva should pay this compensation to Mrs D. 
Mrs D has said in her response that: By insisting that I accept the cash compensation 
option, and deducting a notional tax amount, Aviva has unnecessarily disadvantaged me.
 Mrs D says that this is because the notional tax Aviva deducted is not documented, and as a 
result she cant claim foreign tax credits in Canada. Mrs D has said that this means she will 
pay tax on the compensation payment in Canada. Mrs D has now said that her marginal tax 
rate in Canada for several years has been approximately 17% +/-2%, and she will 
therefore pay tax at this rate on her compensation payment of £2,671.74.  
In my provisional decision Id said that the deduction made by Aviva was a notional one, and 
not an actual tax deduction. Id also explained why I thought that Avivas approach in 
deducting notional tax was reasonable and I dont think that Mrs D has presented any 
additional evidence to say why Avivas approach in deducting notional tax wasnt 
reasonable.
Mrs D has also said that Avivas offer to compensate her for the additional Canadian tax she 
will incur on the compensation payment is not a rm commitment. But in my provisional 
decision I had set out details on how Aviva should now compensate Mrs D for any additional 
tax that she pays in Canada. 
Mrs D has said in her response to me that she wants Aviva to pay the compensation into her 
SIPP. Aviva has already paid the compensation of £2,671.74 to Mrs D and I think that 
Avivas offer to compensate Mrs D for any additional Canadian tax she has to pay on the 
compensation payment is reasonable. I think that this will mean that Mrs D will benefit from 
the compensation payment shes received without losing any of this compensation payment 
to Canadian tax.
  
Mrs D has also said that she will have Canadian tax to pay on any further compensation 
payment she receives. But as Id said in my provisional decision, I think that Aviva should 
compensate Mrs D for any Canadian tax that she pays on her compensation payment when 
she completes her 2023 tax return and Aviva should also compensate Mrs D for any 
Canadian tax that Mrs D would have to pay on this second compensation payment. I still 
think this is fair and reasonable.   
As Ive said above, I still think that the payment of £2,671.74 made to Mrs D by Aviva is a 
compensation payment. I therefore dont think that it is part of a miscalculated transfer value, 
or any retained pension rights that can be transferred into Mrs Ds SIPP. Ive also said that 
Avivas offer to compensate Mrs D for any additional Canadian tax she has to pay is 
reasonable.  
However, as Id said in my provisional decision, as Aviva made no account of a possible
tax charge in Canada when they paid compensation to her, I am upholding Mrs Ds 
complaint.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision Id set out details on how Aviva should compensate Mrs D for any 
additional tax that she will pay in Canada on the compensation payment shes received, and 
any tax she has to pay on this further compensation payment.
However, in response to my provisional decision, Aviva has asked for clarification on how 
they calculate the tax on the second compensation payment as they would not know 
whether any tax is due until Mrs D completes her 2024 tax return.To assist, I have set out the following as an example to show I how think the calculation 
should work. However, the exact rate of tax applying will not be confirmed until Mrs D has 
completed her 2023 Canadian tax return. Aviva will therefore need to set out their own 
calculations once Mrs D has submitted her 2023 Canadian tax return and provided evidence 
to Aviva of any tax she has paid on her compensation payment of £2,671.74.
Mrs D has already said what rate of tax she ordinarily pays in Canada, which she has said is 
17%, +/- 2%. I therefore think that if Mrs D pays tax at this rate on her 2023 income, then the 
likely amount of Canadian tax that she would pay on the compensation payment of 
£2,671.74 would be £454.20, +/-2%. (£2,671.64 X 17% = £454.20)
I think it reasonable to assume that Mrs D would then need to declare the amount of extra 
compensation paid of £454.20 as part of her 2024 Canadian tax return, which if she still paid 
tax at 17%, +/-2%, would incur an addition tax charge of £77.21, +/-2%. (£454.20 X 17% = 
£77.21)
I also think that this extra compensation payment of £77.21 would then incur a further tax 
charge of £13.12, +/-2%, (77.21 X 17% = £13.12) and the extra payment of £13.12 would 
incur a further tax charge of £2.23, +/-2% (£13.12 X 17% = £2.23). 
I appreciate that this further payment of £2.23 would incur a tax charge of 38p, but to simplify 
matters, I think it reasonable that once any additional tax due falls below £1, then no further 
amounts need to be applied.
I therefore think that, in this example, Aviva would pay Mrs D £546.76 (£454.20 + £77.21 + 
£13.12 + £2.23) to compensate for any additional Canadian tax charges that she would 
incur. 
Aviva has also said that they wouldnt know if any tax was due on any further compensation 
payments until Mrs D has completed her Canadian 2024 tax return. But Mrs D has said that 
her marginal tax rate in Canada for several years has been 17%, +/-2%. 
I think that Mrs D has said that her Canadian tax rate has been consistent for several years. 
I therefore think it reasonable for Aviva to assume that the rate of tax that Mrs D pays on the 
compensation payment of £2,671.74, when shes completed her 2023 Canadian tax return, 
is the same tax rate that is then applied when calculating the compensation to be paid to Mrs 
D on any further compensation payment.  
Mrs D has said that to evidence any Canadian tax that she pays on the compensation 
payment, her accountant would need to produce two sets of 2023 tax returns, one including 
the compensation payment and the other not. Mrs D has said that this will result in her 
paying additional fees to her accountant, and she will have to share details of her whole 
finances with Aviva, which she doesnt want to do.
Aviva has said that they would need evidence of any extra tax that Mrs D has to pay in 
Canada on the compensation received, which I think is reasonable. But Aviva hasnt yet 
specified what evidence it would need and has therefore not said that Mrs Ds accountant 
will have to produce two sets of tax returns, as Mrs D has said. 
I therefore think that Aviva will need to confirm to Ms D what evidence they need Mrs D to 
provide to confirm the Canadian tax paid on the compensation payment of £2,671.74.  
I think that if Mrs D does have to pay any extra fee to her accountant to produce the 
evidence requested by Aviva, then its reasonable for Aviva to pay Mrs D for any additional 
accountancy fee she incurs for providing this evidence. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
and Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should compensate Mrs D as I had detailed in my 
provisional decision and as I have further explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman