DRN-2322577
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in January 1992. 
The PPI covered Mr A for accident, sickness and unemployment and protected 
Mr and Mrs As mortgage monthly repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our 
adjudicator. 
So far as the sale of the PPI is concerned, Mr and Mrs A mainly say that they dont feel this 
insurance should have been brought to their attention by the mortgage advisor because due 
to their financial circumstances at the time it was an unnecessary expense. Mr and Mrs A 
told us they dont feel they needed PPI as they had other means to rely on.
Mr and Mrs A took out another Halifax mortgage after this one but it looks like they didnt 
take out any PPI when they did that. So Im concentrating in my decision on the PPI they 
took out with their 1992 mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Mr A was the person covered by the PPI policy, but Mr and Mrs A had a joint mortgage so 
Ive looked at both their circumstances when the insurance was taken out.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. Heres why I say this.
Halifax couldnt provide any documents from the time of sale showing how the PPI was sold. 
Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax or Mr and Mrs A to have kept this. And although Halifax couldnt 
confirm how the PPI was sold, Mr and Mrs A recalled this happened during a meeting with 
Halifax. So I think its most likely thats what happened.
I cant know exactly how Halifax presented or explained the PPI to Mr and Mrs A. Ive no 
reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs A are certain about everything theyve told us. But it would 
be unreasonable to expect Mr and Mrs A to recall exactly what was said at the time. This 
means that what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find that its likely that Mr and Mrs A werent 
given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their account without their consent. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary. 
Based on the information Ive seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as 
optional or that it was added to Mr and Mrs As mortgage without their consent. 
I say this because their mortgage was a major financial commitment which they signed up to 
pay back over 25 years. Mr and Mrs As home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage 
payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than 
they had otherwise. So it looks to me as if Mr and Mrs A couldve found PPI useful if theyd 
needed to claim. And I can see why they mightve felt that having PPI was worthwhile for 
them.  
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Halifax didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs A not to choose PPI if they didnt want to have 
it. On balance, I think its likely that they decided they wanted to have the benefits PPI 
offered and they chose to buy the policy to cover Mr A  even if theyve forgotten this now.  
Mr and Mrs A say Halifaxs advisor strongly advised them to take out the PPI. Halifax looked 
at their complaint on the basis that its advisor had personally recommended PPI to 
Mr and Mrs A. 
A lender making a recommendation about PPI has extra obligations to meet. As well as 
giving clear policy information, Halifax also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
PPI recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs A. So, Ive also looked at their complaint 
keeping this in mind.   
Ive looked carefully at what Mr and Mrs A told us about their situation at the time to see if 
PPI was right for them when they took out this mortgage.  
Halifax told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from when Mr and Mrs A 
took out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use afterwards. I think its 
likely that in all main respects the policy that they took out to cover Mr A wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr A wasnt eligible for PPI. And it looks like he was 
probably the main earner when Mr and Mrs As mortgage started. So I can see why they 
mightve wanted cover in the event that he wasnt able to work.
I think its most likely that the policy protected Mr A for up to 12 months per claim in the 
event he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. And the policy wouldve also paid 
out if he had an accident or was too sick or disabled to work, on top of any work benefits, for 
up to 24 months per disability claim. This was significantly longer than he couldve depended 
on his employer paying him full sick pay. 
And Mr A couldve made repeated claims on the policy. So PPI provided long term cover 
whilst Mr and Mrs A had to pay their mortgage.    
Mr A had other benefits through work. Ive taken into account that Mr A mentioned having 
death in service benefits  but PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different 
circumstances. Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr A if he was 
off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve 
got if hed lost his job, giving Mr and Mrs A some additional financial security in those 
circumstances.
There was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs A took out this mortgage that they would always 
have savings to rely on because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Looking at the mortgage application Mr and Mrs A completed some years later in 2000, I can 
see that they did still have a similar amount in savings  but they also had a number of other 
quite substantial credit commitments listed. It looks like paying for just those monthly 
outgoings alone wouldve wiped out their savings in around 6 months or so if theyd needed 
to rely on these to cover the monthly repayments. So its possible that they mightnt have 
had much spare cash if Mr A wasnt able to work and needed to claim on the policy. And 
having a policy set up that paid their mortgage monthly repayments for at least 12 months  
and potentially for 24 months  wouldve offered them security and peace of mind in what 
mightve been difficult circumstances.
I've also taken carefully into account that Mr and Mrs A had an endowment policy in place 
when they took out their mortgage. But this doesnt mean that the PPI wasnt still suitable for 
them. 
Setting up PPI alongside their mortgage meant they werent at risk of having to cash in their 
endowment policy early  possibly when they couldnt be sure of getting a good return. And 
I think Mr and Mrs A probably preferred to keep this as a long term investment, bearing in 
mind they kept it running rather than cashing it in when they were applying for their mortgage 
and using the proceeds to reduce the cost of their borrowing. In the event, Mr and Mrs A 
kept the endowment policy for its full term. So I think that having cover in place so they 
couldve continued to make their monthly mortgage repayments without having to rely on an 
endowment policy wouldve provided a useful extra benefit to Mr and Mrs A. 
So this information doesnt affect my decision. 
Mr and Mrs A mentioned being able to afford the mortgage on just one salary and I've 
thought carefully about this. But, I think losing Mr As income wouldve had a significant 
detrimental impact on their joint finances. And although Mrs A was in work and she had good 
sick pay benefits too, I think Mr and Mrs A mightve found it hard to keep up with the 
mortgage monthly repayments for long if she found herself unable to work as well  
especially as Mrs A wouldve been on half pay only after the first 6 months off work sick. 
I can see why Mr and Mrs A mightve wanted PPI  even if theyve forgotten this now. And 
I think PPI was suitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr As case. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold. I dont know if the PPI 
cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs A when they bought the policy. But they havent 
suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly premiums. Looking at their circumstances 
and the benefits PPI offered, I think Mr and Mrs A still wouldve decided to buy the policy 
even if theyd been better informed as it looks to me like the policy offered them useful 
protection in their particular situation. In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs A told us, including 
what theyve said in response to the adjudicators assessment. But, on balance, I dont find 
theres enough information for me to say that Mr and Mrs A have lost out as a result of 
anything Halifax did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ive only looked into Mr and Mrs As complaint that Halifax mis-sold them PPI with their 
mortgage in 1992. If they want to complain that the mortgage itself was mis-sold, then this 
would be a separate complaint. But if so, they will first need to complain to Halifax about this 
(if they havent already) so it has a chance to comment. If Mr and Mrs A do that and still feel 
unhappy then they will be able to bring that complaint to us as a new matter and well 
investigate. 
Although Mr and Mrs A also mentioned some other things during the course of this complaint 
I can see that our adjudicator has already responded and explained what were able to 
investigate. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment overall. But I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman