DRN-4048602
The complaint
Mr R complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams), irresponsibly granted 
him two credit card accounts he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr R entered into an agreement with J D Williams to have access to credit with two accounts 
that were opened for him in January 2023, one with an initial credit limit of £125 and the 
other with an initial credit limit of £150. 
Mr R says that J D Williams didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
the two accounts and didnt take into consideration his personal health situation. 
J D Williams didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Mr Rs financial circumstances before granting him the account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He thought J D Williams 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account. 
Mr R didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mr Rs complaint is that J D Williams made credit available to him that was unaffordable. 
Before granting each of the two accounts and setting the opening credit limits, J D Williams 
looked into Mr Rs financial situation. I think J D Williams gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr R about his ability to repay both accounts. This included 
completing a credit check with credit reference agencies and checking that Mr R was in full 
time employment. It also showed that he didnt have any defaults or other adverse findings 
against him from previous borrowing. Its possible that J D Williams failed to make 
adequate checks before providing Mr R with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused it to think the opening credit limit it gave him for each 
account was unaffordable. 
Mr R had other borrowing and a poor credit history. I think that likely explains why 
J D Williams chose to offer him an initial credit limit on each account that was relatively 
modest. We asked Mr R to provide us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the 
time so that we could see what more thorough checks would likely have revealed to 
J D Williams, but he hasnt provided the information thats been requested. So as things 
stand, I havent seen anything that persuades me that J D Williams would or should have 
seen that Mr Rs financial circumstances were in such a way as to make providing him with 
these two credit facilities as being unreasonable. And in the absence of extra information 
from him, I havent seen enough evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check 
would have led J D Williams to think that it should not have issued credit to Mr R at the time.
I am sorry to hear of the challenging personal circumstances Mr R has told us about. I 
understand J D Williams is also now aware of this and I would expect them to act with 
appropriate forbearance and to make allowance accordingly when reviewing any outstanding 
balances still remaining on these two accounts. 
I know Mr R will be disappointed by this decision. But Id like to reassure him that I have fully 
considered everything hes told us. Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to 
uphold his complaint.
Im therefore not persuaded that J D Williams acted unfairly in approving these two 
accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman