DRN-1676973
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled an escape of 
water claim she made on her home insurance policy.
Mrs C is represented by Mr C, her son.
What happened
In March 2018, during a period of very cold weather, a pipe burst in Mrs Cs garage, causing 
damage. Mrs C made a claim on her home insurance policy. 
Asbestos was discovered in the garage, which needed to be removed. Some of Mr Cs 
possessions had been stored in the garage, and these were taken into storage by UKIs 
contractor. Mrs Cs boiler had also been kept in the garage and this had been damaged too. 
So Mrs C had no heating or hot water. After some delay, she, Mr C and Mr Cs daughter 
were moved to alternative accommodation. The policy limit for alternative accommodation 
was reached in September 2018, so Mrs C and her family had to find somewhere else to 
stay.
Mrs C experienced many issues while the claim was ongoing. These included a lack of 
progression and issues with communication. Mr C had to continually chase for information 
and updates. Electrical terminals were left live. Mr C effectively had to manage the claim. Mr 
C made complaints about UKIs handling of the claim on Mrs Cs behalf. UKI acknowledged 
it had provided poor service and offered around £2,000 for its handling of the claim.
The electrics in Mrs Cs home needed to be replaced. UKI said the circuits were about 60 
years and replacing the electrics would be classed as betterment  which isnt covered by 
the policy. It told Mrs C shed need to get quotes for the electrics, flooring and ceiling works 
which needed to be done before the claim could move on. It chased these quotes up In 
November 2018, but as it didnt hear from Mr or Mrs C, it closed down the claim. 
In July 2019, Mr C got back in touch with UKI to chase up and complain about the progress 
of the claim. He said Mrs Cs home was still without electrics 10 months later. He couldnt 
get an electrician to do the work because the inside of the sockets hadnt been tested for 
asbestos. 
Mr C complained that the contents claim hadnt been settled and that the asbestos company 
hadnt returned his things. UKI later let Mr C know that his things had been disposed of by 
the asbestos company. It also arranged for the sockets to be asbestos tested  but the 
contractor wrongly tested the outside of the socket, rather than the inside. This caused 
further delays.
UKI didnt think the further delays in the claim were down to any fault on its part. It said itd 
asked Mr C to provide quotes in November 2018 and he hadnt responded. It acknowledged 
that the inside of the sockets needed to be tested (although it reiterated the electrical works 
werent covered) and the complaint handler confirmed shed chase up making an 
appointment. UKI also accepted that Mr C shouldve been told his things had been disposed 
of, so he could be paid a settlement for them. It paid Mrs C further compensation of £500.
Mrs C remained unhappy with UKIs handling of the claim and Mr C asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator explained to Mrs C that we could only look at the three issues UKI had 
addressed in its final response letter of August 2019  delays in progressing the claim; the 
disposal of Mr Cs things and the organisation of the socket testing. He thought UKI had 
made it clear it needed quotes and that Mr C hadnt got back in touch for around seven 
months. He did think Mr C shouldve been told earlier that his things had been disposed of. 
He noted UKI had already paid Mrs C compensation during the life of the claim and he took 
this into account. Overall, he felt the £500 compensation UKI had paid was fair.
Mr C disagreed on Mrs Cs behalf. Ive summarised his response. Mrs C had another 
ongoing claim with UKI (a complaint about it had been considered by another investigator 
here in a separate complaint) and he didnt feel the complaints could be separated when 
considering this one. He felt we should look at the way the claim had been handled since 
March 2018. He considered he and Mrs C had ruined their lives and business chasing UKI 
and felt theyd been treated appallingly. He said the £500 compensation didnt make up in 
any way for the mismanagement of the claim. He also said he had sent in quotes to UKIs 
contractors and had been in contact with them between September 2018 and July 2019.He 
told us the house still wasnt fully fit to live in and the sockets and asbestos issues still 
remained.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the £500 compensation UKI has paid Mrs C for the handling of this 
claim is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs C that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her response to the investigators assessment; I have considered everything in detail. I 
wont comment on every point she and Mr C have raised though  although Ive carefully 
thought about them. Ill focus on what I think are the key issues.
Its clear this claim has been ongoing for around 15 months now. Mrs C and her family were 
out of their home for many months of that time and I appreciate the situation has been 
extremely stressful for them. I was also sorry to read about Mr Cs poor health and I do hope 
hes recovered now. Im also aware that Mrs C has another claim ongoing with UKI and that 
weve looked into a complaint about it. But I cant look into any issues relating to that claim 
here.
Ive read all of the claims notes in detail since the start of this claim. I can see there were 
periods of unnecessary delays; a failure to keep Mrs C and Mrs C updated about what was 
happening; issues with the electrics; and the need for Mr C to effectively manage the claim. I 
dont doubt this made an already stressful time far more frustrating and upsetting than it 
needed to be. 
But it wouldnt be appropriate for me to deal with those issues as part of this decision. Thats 
because I can see Mr C has already made a number of complaints about the way this claim 
has been handled to UKI and its issued him with final response letters addressing these 
particular points. The last of those letters before the final response of August 2019 was sent 
in November 2018. At this point, UKI had already paid Mrs C total compensation of £2000 for its handling of this claim. If Mr C wasnt happy with any of UKIs responses to those 
complaints, it was open to him to complain to us within the deadlines those letters gave.
So Ill only be looking at the issues Mr C raised in July 2019, which were addressed in the 
final response letter of August 2019.
Delays in progressing the claim
Ive looked closely at the claims notes UKI has sent us. It seems that by July 2018, Mr C was 
aware that UKI wouldnt cover the cost of the electrics, because itd be an upgrade. It seems 
hed been asked to send in quotes for the remaining works to be done.
I can see that Mr C did send in quotes to the claims contractor, which were forwarded on to 
UKI. But UKI needed further estimates to move the claim along. Its clear from the final 
response letter of November 2018 that it was waiting for this information before the claim 
could be progressed. 
UKIs notes suggest that it didnt receive any further contact from Mr C until July 2019. I cant 
see it received any contact from its contractors either. Its possible Mr C was in contact with 
the contractors during this time and they didnt pass information on. But I also think, given 
the lack of contact from the claims handler dealing with the claim, it was open to Mr C to 
chase things up sooner than he did if he was concerned the contractors werent passing on 
information. I can see from the notes that hed chased up things directly with UKI before this 
point. 
So I dont think I can fairly hold UKI responsible for all of the delays in progressing the claim 
between November 2018 and July 2019. I do agree with the investigator though that were it 
not for Mr C calling up to chase the claim, its unlikely UKI wouldve got back in touch again.
The testing of the sockets
Mrs C had been without electric for over 10 months at this point of the claim. Mr C said the 
delay in getting the works done was down to his electrician not being prepared to begin 
works until the insides of the sockets had been tested for asbestos. UKI arranged a visit for 
this to take place, but unfortunately, the contractor didnt test inside the sockets. I 
understand how frustrating this mustve been.
I think UKI responded to this issue appropriately at this point though. The complaint handler 
agreed to get a new appointment sorted out and said shed chase it up. I think this was a 
reasonable response and I think UKI was keen to get things moving along. 
The disposal of Mr Cs things
Mr C had stored many of his possessions in the garage. Because these had been 
contaminated by asbestos, theyd been removed by the asbestos contractor. I can see from 
the notes that Mr C had enquired about these items and which were salvageable at points 
during the claim. 
But Mr C wasnt told all of his things had been disposed of until July 2019. I understand 
some of these items were irreplaceable  sentimental items and collectors items. So I can 
understand that this mustve been very upsetting for him. I think UKIs contractor shouldve 
let Mr C know that his things had been disposed of much sooner than it did. If it had, I think it 
wouldve saved Mr C further disappointment and allowed him to pursue settlement for the 
items more quickly.
Overall, I agree UKI made further errors in its handling of Mrs Cs claim. And I dont doubt 
that these caused Mrs C and her family significantly more distress and inconvenience. So Im pleased UKI acknowledged this. I think £500 feels fair for the further poor handling of Mrs 
Cs claim and to recognise the issues raised in Mrs Cs complaint of July 2019. This means 
Im not telling UKI to pay her anything more.
I appreciate Mr Cs told us there have been further issues since the final response was 
issued in August 2019  including the remaining presence of asbestos and the house not 
being fit to live in. As the investigator explained, those are new complaint points. Mrs C will 
need to make a new complaint about those points to UKI before we can potentially help. Id 
stress though that we will not be able to reconsider the issues Ive looked at in this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that the £500 compensation U K 
Insurance Limited paid Mrs C was fair and reasonable.
Im not making any award against UKI.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman