DRN-3071928
The complaint
Ms P has complained that Pi Financial Limited (trading as Money Foundations) gave her 
unsuitable advice to transfer two pensions into a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension). 
She says the advice was given to facilitate investment into a high-risk investment - the 
Optima Worldwide Group (OWG) bond.  
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Legal Partnership (LP) -unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd , trading as Money Foundations, (Pi) - regulated financial adviser
Strand Capital Limited (Strand) stockbroker
James Hay (JH)-SIPP provider
Ms P agreed to meet LP to review her pensions. Ms P says LP told her they could be getting 
her pensions to work harder and new options in the market meant a review would be a 
good idea. She says LP told her about a bond with guaranteed returns. Ms P says she 
thought she was dealing with a representative of Pi. She never met anyone other than the 
LP representative who also filled in all the forms. Pi says LP introduced Ms P to them and 
Pis adviser would have met with Ms P.
Pi received a letter from Ms P on 29 October 2013. This said:
I would like to transfer my existing Pension Plan into a new Self Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) Plan. Can you arrange for my current fundsto be transferred into a SIPP with a 
relevant SIPP provider. I do not wish for you to choose the Investment Funds but set up the 
SIPP Investment only, as I wish to choose my own investment choice which may involve 
direct investment in Shares.
The adviser replied by letter dated 31 October 2013 which said:
Thank you for your letter of 29th October 2013 to transfer your Pension Plans from  into a 
new Self Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). I am happy to complete your instructions on the 
transfer. I will not have any input on which funds that your new SIPP will be invested in, will 
only have responsibility for selecting an appropriate SIPP provider and setting up the 
transfer of your funds into the new SIPP.
Various documents were completed and signed on the same day, on 31 October 2013. This 
included 
Client Agreement
a fact find which confirmed Ms Ps circumstances at the time
Pension Replacement Contract Forms
The sections titled Past Performance (for the existing plans) were noted as N/A. The 
Reasons for Switching sections had ticks next to the headings: No longer suitable for clients 
investment objectives and Consolidation of investments. And a handwritten note said: Client 
wishes to invest all funds for her own investment choices. 
A section on the form headed Alternatives Considered asked whether moving funds within 
the existing contracts was an option. This was crossed out.  The Risk category for the 
existing products was recorded as balanced. For the SIPP it said: Client choosing own fund 
choice.
Pension Transfer Analysis
Knowledge and experience assessment 
SIPP application form
Application for an execution-only stockbroking account with Strand 
A recommendation letter was issued on 6 November 2013. It recommended Ms P transfer 
her pensions into a SIPP with James Hay.
In December 2013, James Hay wrote to Pi confirming that all documents had been 
completed and sent to Strand to establish an Executionary Account and that £50,000 would 
be transferred to Strand when the account was opened.
Ms Ps pensions (worth around £56,000) were transferred to JH. In January 2014, James 
Hay confirmed to Pi that £40,000 had been transferred to Strand. In February 2014, they 
confirmed another £10,000 had been transferred. The letter suggests this was following a 
request from Pi.
Representatives for Ms P raised a complaint to Pi in 2018 regarding the unsuitable advice it 
said had been provided to her. Pi Financial didnt uphold the complaint and it was 
subsequently referred to us. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. He didnt think the advice given to Ms P had been suitable. 
Pi disagreed that they should be held responsible for Ms Ps losses and so the complaint 
was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions throughout the complaint which I considered in full. 
Pis position in summary is that:
Ms P instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. They only provided 
Ms P with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited 
nature of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation was suitable in full compliance with COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2. Any 
liability could only be in regard to whether a SIPP was appropriate for Ms P.
Pi didnt provide Ms P with advice on the switch from her existing pension plans to a 
SIPP or on the investment in OWG. Ms P had already decided what she wanted to 
do before she approached Pi. And the investment forms likely would have made it clear the intended investments were high risk. They doubt additional information by 
Pi would have changed Ms Ps course of action. 
Ms P had told Pi she would be using a separate investment manager (Horizon 
Stockbroking). Pi established that manager was an authorised and regulated firm and 
appropriately qualified. Pi also undertook due diligence on the OWG bond and was 
satisfied it met Ms Ps objectives.
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of Horizon Stockbroking 
who was also a regulated party. Horizon is responsible for Ms Ps losses and not Pi 
who only played a very limited role here. 
Provisional findings
I previously issued a provisional decision in which I upheld Ms Ps complaint. I said:
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Ms P investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Ms P would have relied on the advice or whether she would have acted the 
same way she did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Ms P did rely on Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Ms P with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Ms P. This is also clearly evidenced in the following documents:
The research report which was issued on 4 November 2013 and prepared by Pis 
adviser and which -after comparing several SIPPs and providers- recommended the 
James Hay Modular iSIPP for Ms P. 
The recommendation letter dated 6 November 2013 which said amongst other 
things:
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP. 
I have acted accordingly.
Under Objectives it said You wanted me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which 
you can transfer your current pension policy. 
Pi went onto make a specific recommendation After doing my research on the most 
appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs I have recommended a James Hay 
iSIPP.
Having undertaken appropriate research on your behalf I believe that James Hay 
Partnership will offer the most suitable contract given your stated objectives.
A copy of the research undertaken . accompanies this letter for your
consideration which outlines in greater detail the reasons for the recommendation of the 
chosen provider. [my emphasis]
I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Ms P. Im satisfied that recommending a suitable 
SIPP provider can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Ms P when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in 
COBS 9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? Pi has said they provided a limited advice service in accordance with Ms Ps instructions. Ms 
P had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and she told them she 
didnt require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch from Ms 
Ps personal pension to the SIPP or where it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Ms Ps objectives and that she was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Ms Ps recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was the access to a 
wider range of investments and Pi was aware that more specifically she intended to invest 
through Strand into the OWG bond.
I consider the risks of Ms P transferring her existing pensions and the risks of her intended 
investment through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Ms P wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Ms P was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Ms Ps wider circumstances including how her 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers. The alert said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitablePi says the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser 
was the only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. Pi has 
repeatedly mentioned that Horizon Stockbroking was a second regulated party here who 
was meant to give Ms P investment advice. However, theres no indication that Horizon was 
involved in this transaction. Neither was Shard Capital who Pi has referred to in their 
submissions. Ms P opened an account with Strand who was a regulated firm but they were 
acting on an execution-only basis and again I cant see any evidence that they were 
intending to provide Ms P with investment advice.
In any event, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away even if another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Ms Ps 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a 
personal pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Ms P to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Ms P were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi do consider the 
wider suitability of Ms Ps intended transactions when recommending a SIPP-whether she 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Ms P.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Ms Ps case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenlagh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   In summary, I consider that when advising Ms P on the suitability of the James Hay Modular 
iSIPP, Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the 
pension switch and where Ms P intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Ms P with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Ms P was 53, single with a dependent child and was unemployed due to ill-health. She had 
no savings or investments. She didnt have any significant investment experience and this 
was her only pension provision.
Pi said they did due diligence on the OWG investment and considered it met Ms Ps 
objectives. So Im satisfied Pi knew what Ms Ps intended investment was. The OWG bond 
was invested in loan notes which are considered relatively high-risk and are not regulated. 
The bond prospectus (which Pi has provided to us) confirms this:
The Convertible Redeemable Loan Note is an unregulated investment and the protections 
normally afforded by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 do not apply. Investors 
will not be entitled to compensation under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
I think its evident from the documents Ms P completed that she didnt have the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks of this non-standard investment which 
included illiquidity risks, lack of diversification and potential loss of her retirement funds. 
The suitability report suggests Ms P felt a risk profile wasnt required. However, it didnt 
matter what Ms P might have considered necessary or not in this regard. Pi was required to 
meet their regulatory obligations and COBS 9 required Pi to obtain this information about Ms 
P before making their recommendation. They failed to do this.
I havent seen evidence that she had an attitude to risk exceeding medium at the most and 
given her circumstances she certainly didnt have the capacity to take any significant risk 
with her pension. In the Pension Transfer Analysis she also ranked The security of my 
pension fund as her highest priority, long before to increase my pension which was only 
ranked 4 on a scale from 1 (highest priority) -6 (least important).
Given Ms Ps lack of investment experience, Im also not persuaded she was a credible self-
investor. I cant see any persuasive reasons why Ms P needed to change her pensions at all, 
given that they were invested in fairly low cost arrangements in balanced, managed 
portfolios.
Based on the information I have, Im satisfied the transfer to the SIPP and investment into 
OWG was unsuitable for Ms P. And Pi knew-or ought to have known- that the intended 
investment into OWG was too high risk and unsuitable for an inexperienced investor in Ms 
Ps circumstances. Despite this, they recommended a SIPP and arranged the paperwork to 
facilitate this investment.
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Ms P. They should have 
explained that her intended investments were too high risk and that given her limited assets, 
she couldnt financially bear the risks with her retirement funds. 
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
and helped her arrange the paperwork for investments which were clearly not suitable for 
her. They didnt pay due regard to Ms Ps interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their personal recommendation was suitable for Ms P as per their regulatory 
obligations. Therefore I do not consider that Pis actions in their dealings with Ms P were fair 
or reasonable in the circumstances. 
would Ms P have transferred her pension to a SIPP and invested in OWG anyway?
I considered whether Ms P would have proceeded with the transaction regardless of what Pi 
told her. The OWG brochure detailed some of the risks of the investment and if I assume 
that Ms P was given this brochure-which is something I dont know-she might have been 
informed that this was unregulated and high risk. I also considered that LP might have 
influenced Ms P in the background and could have persuaded her to proceed.
However, on balance, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm 
recommending her not to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than any 
general wording in application forms or brochures warning the investment was high risk. Ms 
P had no real investment experience so Im not convinced she would have been able to 
properly understand the risks she was taking with her entire pension here. 
The consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Ms Ps overall 
financial position. She didnt have the capacity to bear significant losses to her pension, 
which was a real possibility with the investment in the OWG bond. So I think on balance if Pi, 
as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had clearly explained they couldnt 
recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for her circumstances, 
the transaction wasnt in her best interest and she couldnt afford to risk her pension in this 
way, I think she would have decided not to proceed.
If LP had tried to persuade her to transfer anyway, Ms P would have faced a choice between 
taking the advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm. Im not persuaded the 
evidence suggests Ms P was so strongly motivated to make the transaction that she would 
have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert advice. 
For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Ms P would have more likely than
not followed Pis advice if they had explained the position in full and recommended
against the SIPP and investment with OWG as it was unsuitable for her. I think, on balance, 
Ms P would have remained in her existing pension arrangements.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on 
Horizon providing a suitable recommendation for Ms P. As explained above I cant see that 
Horizon or any other regulated investment adviser firm was involved here. The only other 
regulated party was Strand who Ms P had an execution-only account with.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Ms P unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Ms P more 
likely than not would have remained in her existing pensions. Having considered all the 
evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Ms P for any losses she 
suffered by transferring into the SIPP and investing into OWG.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Ms Ps knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investment was evidently unsuitable for Ms P.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the 
decision, I think Ms P would have likely remained in her existing pensions but for Pis 
failings. So Ms P wouldnt have been in the SIPP or OWG bond investment at all if Pi had 
met its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently she wouldnt have suffered the 
investment losses she did. I therefore consider the losses Ms P suffered from the high-risk 
investment are related to Pis unsuitable advice.
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Ms Ps losses my aim is to put her as close as possible to 
the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice by Pi.
In my view, for the reasons given above, Ms P would more likely than not have stayed in her 
existing arrangements if Pi had followed their regulatory duties and not recommended the 
SIPP.
Im intending to ask Pi to request notional values from Ms Ps previous pension providers. Pi 
should calculate compensation by comparing the value that Ms Ps pensions would have 
been at the date of my final decision (Value A) with the value of her SIPP (Value B) on the 
same date.
If Value A is higher than B, then the difference between A and B is the loss. 
When calculating Value A, any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP 
should be deducted from the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if they are totalled and all those payments deducted at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be 
added to the Value A calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
I consider the notional value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this complaint. 
However if one or both of Ms Ps former pension providers isnt able to calculate a notional 
value, I think the following benchmark should be used for Value A instead:
FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA 
Stock Market Income Total Return Index). 
I think this benchmark is appropriate for the following reasons:
The Pension Replacement form suggests Ms Ps existing pensions were invested in 
a balanced risk profile
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison
given Ms Ps circumstances.I understand Ms Ps OWG investment is illiquid, meaning it cant be readily sold on the open 
market. This means it can be complicated to establish Value B. So, Value B should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Pi should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Pi is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for
the purpose of calculation. Pi Financial may require that Ms P provides an undertaking to 
pay Pi any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Pi taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Ms P can discuss with JH directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Pi pay Ms P an upfront lump sum equivalent to five 
years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Ms Ps pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms P as a lump sum. Assuming Ms P is still a non-taxpayer, no 
notional deductions to allow for income tax should be made. 
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay Ms P £750 for the distress Ms P suffered when she 
realised she had lost significant parts of her pension and could not access the rest. Ms P has 
been in financial difficulties and I consider not having access to her pension would have had 
a more significant impact on her. Ms P will also likely need additional pension advice to sort 
out her pension which she wouldnt have needed if she had remained in her pensions. Pi 
should pay her another £700 towards this.
Pi Financial Ltd should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the compensation 
calculated as at the date of decision if its not paid to Ms P within 28 days of us notifying Pi 
Financial Ltd that Ms P has accepted my final decision. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial considers its required by
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should tell Ms P how 
much its taken off. It should also give Ms P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Details of the calculations should be provided to Ms P in a clear and simple format.
responses to my provisional decision
Ms P accepted my findings. Pi disagreed with my decision. In summary they said:Limited retainer
Its not fair and reasonable to hold Pi responsible for Ms Ps investment losses when 
she specifically requested and received a limited service and didnt look to Pi for 
investment advice.
COBS 9.2.2 provides that (emphasis added):
A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, 
giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that 
the specific transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of 
managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio
The ombudsman disregards that the nature and extent of the service provided in this 
case was solely the advice on a SIPP provider and did not extend to assessing the 
investments (which was categorically excluded). So holding Pi responsible for an 
alleged failure to assess the investments is contrary to COBS. 
COBS 9.2.2 provides that the recommended transaction must meet the customers 
objectives. It doesnt provide that a similar exercise needs to be completed for 
transactions connected to the transaction in question. Such a duty is not imposed by 
COBS. So Pi only needed to ensure the SIPP was suitable.
The alert by the regulator in 2013 was aimed at advisers recommending pension 
transfers and has no relevance to advisers whose retainer is limited to 
recommending a SIPP provider. The only reasonable way is to apply the alert only to 
the circumstances it was designed to address. The regulator did not envisage that 
the alert was applicable outside of cases involving pension transfer advice. They 
didnt introduce similar requirements on cases involving pension switches. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service cant apply principles from any alert to any transaction
Pi didnt provide an execution service but conclusions from the Carey judgement are 
still relevant. Including: The scope of duty has to be considered through the 
agreement reached by the parties - which in this case was the agreement that no 
investment advice would be given by Pi. Theres nothing to indicate COBS should 
take precedence over the contractual terms agreed by the parties. And the duty to 
act fairly and honestly does not mean the contract terms should not be overlooked. 
Consumers should take responsibility for their decisions.
Suitability of advice
Pi was only required to advise on a suitable SIPP. The level of information Pi was 
required to obtain had to be viewed in context of the nature of the retainer and the 
service provided.
There is no evidence that Ms P didnt have the knowledge and experience to 
understand the risks of the OWG bond. Such conclusions should be tested in an oral hearing. 
Theres nothing inherently wrong with a client adopting a high degree of risk in order 
to obtain high returns.
The SIPP itself was suitable and not causative of the losses suffered.
Would Ms P have completed the transaction if Pi had recommended against it?
Its fair to assume Ms P would have understood the risks warnings and brochure of 
the OWG bond. She agreed to transfer her pension and invest in OWG on input of an 
unregulated introducer. This clearly demonstrates she gave no consideration to an 
advisers regulated status. She knowingly made high risk investments and theres no 
basis to conclude the involvement from Pi as a regulated adviser would have made 
her reconsider her decision and not switch her pensions. The introducer would have 
pushed the investments regardless of what Pi would have advised. 
The ombudsman speculates what Ms P would or would not have done. Conclusions 
should be properly tested in an oral hearing. The ombudsman should properly 
determine what warnings were provided by Strand in respect of the OWG bond.
Departure from legal principles
 
Its not been made clear whether the ombudsman has chosen to impose more 
demanding duties than civil law and if so, no reasons were given for doing so.
The decision requires Pi to pay compensation where the losses fall outside their legal 
duty.
Pi is held responsible for Ms Ps own decision to make high risk investments. 
my findings
I can assure Pi that I have considered in full all their detailed submissions including their 
letter of 21 November 2018 and 19 December 2018-which they referred to again in their 
latest response. However, I as explained in my provisional decision, I will address what I 
consider the key material issues here.
Having re-considered Pis arguments, I remain satisfied that the decision I have reached is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Limited retainer
Pi argues that COBS 9.2.2R is caveated by the words giving due consideration to the
nature and extent of the service provided. And I agree that the obligations in COBS 9.2.2 R 
do only apply to the advice Pi gave which is the SIPP advice in this case. However, as 
explained in my provisional decision the suitability of a SIPP cant be reasonably considered 
in isolation without assessing the underlying investments. 
So I disagree with Pis argument that COBS 9.2.2 R itself is limiting their obligations in this 
respect. 
The FSA alert in 2013 related to pension transfers and pension switches. It said:It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
Pi knew that the purpose of the SIPP was to invest in the OWG bond and they also knew it 
would be funded through a pension switch. Pi was also aware this was being initiated by an 
unregulated introducer who had referred a number of clients to Pi with the intention to invest 
into this high-risk product. So I think they ought to have been aware that the idea to switch 
pensions and invest in this product would have come from an unregulated party. They 
needed to ensure Ms P understood and could bear the risks of her intended actions. I 
strongly disagree that the regulators alerts arent relevant to the circumstances of Ms Ps 
complaint.
I remain satisfied that the circumstances in the Carey case were sufficiently different to this 
complaint. No advice was given in this case. Pi did provide advice to Ms P and I appreciate 
that Ms P agreed to limited advice and said she didnt need investment advice. Ive taken 
this into account. However, as explained earlier in the decision, even when only giving 
limited advice on the suitability of the SIPP, Pi still had to consider the suitability of the whole 
transaction to meet their regulatory obligations. The fact another regulated party was 
involved does not change this.
suitability of advice
I remain satisfied the OWG bond was an unsuitable investment for Ms P. Based on the 
information Pi had about Ms P there was no indication she had a high attitude to risk or that 
she had any relevant experience or knowledge about these kind of specialist investments. 
Ive based my findings on Ms Ps knowledge and experience on the contemporaneous 
evidence from the time of the advice as recorded for example in the fact find and the 
knowledge assessment form. The information at the time clearly showed that given her lack 
of any real assets, she didnt have the necessary capacity for loss with regards to her 
pension. 
The SIPP was established to facilitate these investments. As the investment was unsuitable, 
the SIPP shouldnt have been recommended and Pi should have informed Ms P why such a 
transaction was not in her best interest and that she couldnt afford to take such a risk with her pension. As set out in my provisional decision I havent seen any persuasive evidence to 
say there was any particular need for Ms P to change her pensions at all.
Would Ms P have completed the transaction if Pi had recommended against it?
Its true that Mr P was persuaded by an unregulated introducer to switch her pension. She 
said she was told she could get guaranteed returns. However, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I dont think this means that she was so set on doing this that she 
wouldnt have listened to a regulated adviser telling her this wasnt a good idea and why. Pi 
said the unregulated introducer would have pushed the investments regardless. Given that 
Pi should have been aware that there was a risk Ms P was being influenced by LP and 
potentially not given full and clear information about what she was about to do, they should 
have established what she had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.
I acknowledged that Ms P might have been given the OWG brochure and I appreciate she 
might have been given further information about the OWG bond being unregulated and high 
risk. But also I need to consider that LP likely would have reassured Ms P this was fine for 
her. In any event, I think being told by a regulated adviser not to proceed with a transaction 
would have likely outweighed any generic risk warnings.
If after all of this Ms P still wanted to proceed, Pi could have considered treating her as an 
insistent client. As this didnt happen, its impossible to know for certain what Ms P would 
have done if Pi had recommended against the SIPP. I therefore need to decide what she 
would have done on the balance of probabilities. And for reasons set out in my provisional 
decision I still think on balance she would have listened to Pis advice. 
Ive come to this conclusion based on the circumstances of this case and the evidence Ive 
seen. I remain satisfied that Im able to reach a fair and reasonable decision in this regard 
without an oral hearing.
Departure from legal principles
I dont consider I departed from the law here. Pi had a duty to give suitable advice which 
included considering the suitability of the pension switch and the intended investments in the 
SIPP. If Pi had given suitable advice and either refused to facilitate the transaction or 
completed a proper insistent client process with Ms P, they would not be liable for any losses 
even if Ms P had decided to proceed anyway and suffered investment losses. 
If they had given suitable advice I consider that on the balance of probabilities Ms P would 
have not invested like in OWG and so any investment losses she suffered could have been 
avoided. So there is a direct link between Pis failings and Ms Ps losses. 
I remain satisfied that in the circumstances its fair and reasonable to hold Pi responsible for 
Ms Ps losses. They knew Ms P was going into an unsuitable investment which was high risk 
and unregulated. They could have prevented these losses by giving suitable advice.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay compensation as set out in the 
putting it right section of this decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 Nina Walter
Ombudsman