DRN-2589678
The complaint
Miss F complains that URIS Group Limited (trading as Towergate Insurance) withdrew her 
holiday home insurance cover after she updated some information. She believes the policy 
was mis-sold in the past.  
What happened
Miss F had a holiday property which had been insured for nearly two decades. When she 
contacted Towergate to add an additional item to her holiday home insurance policy she 
mentioned she lived at the property for about nine months in each year. Towergate told her 
the policy was intended for properties mainly used as holiday homes  not as residential 
properties. But Miss F said her occupancy hadnt altered since she first took out her 
insurance policy. And shed paid her premiums every year.
Miss F said Towergate told her it would have to withdraw her insurance cover. And it was 
unable to offer a like-for-like alternative. But Miss F said when she looked elsewhere she 
couldnt find one that included subsidence damage. And she didnt think her property would 
have sufficient cover as a result. So she wants a refund of all the premiums shes paid since 
she took out the policy over fifteen years ago. 
Towergate said Miss F had a holiday home insurance policy. Due to the amount of years 
thatd elapsed since Miss F had first taken out the policy, it hadnt been able to confirm 
exactly whatd been discussed when the policy was sold. But it understood Miss F had 
always spent most of her time at this property. Towergate said the policy was intended for 
holiday homes  not main residences. So it wasnt suitable for the sort of use Miss F had for 
her property. And unfortunately she would have to find alternative cover.
Towergate said itd maintained the cover for a short time and obtained a quote for Miss F so 
she wasnt without cover. But Miss F had wanted to include subsidence cover. And that 
wasnt available for its holiday home or specialist home products. Towergate said it couldnt 
see subsidence had been included in previous years except for one year which appeared to 
be an administrative error. And it apologised for any confusion that had caused. 
Miss F wasnt satisfied with Towergates response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She said the underwriters had confirmed Miss Fs ability 
to claim on the policy hadnt been affected by the occupancy of the property. And if shed 
made a claim it wouldve been considered. So she wouldnt recommend the premiums 
should be returned. 
Our investigator accepted the policy didnt meet all of Miss Fs requirements. But thatd only 
come to light recently. So the loss of expectation shed faced was only for a short time. She 
felt Towergate should compensate Miss F for her trouble and upset and the considerable 
time shed spent sending documentation to Towergate in relation to the subsidence cover.
Towergate said it wasnt normally included but had appeared on previous documentation 
periodically. As a result our investigator said Towergate should pay Miss F £150 
compensation and it has agreed to do so.
Miss F didnt agree. The subsidence issue was secondary. The main issue was that shed 
paid premiums for some fifteen years for a property which she lives in from March to 
November, but which wasnt her main residence. After Towergate checked with the 
underwriters it withdrew the product. So she feels the policy has been mis-sold to her. She 
believes shes paid an increased amount because Towergate were aware of the period of 
unoccupancy. And shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how upsetting this has been for Miss F. She thought she had appropriate 
property insurance in place for a number of years. But when she asked to make a small 
alteration to her policy it became apparent her holiday home policy wasnt suitable. 
Towergate said a holiday home policy wasnt the right sort of cover. And it wasnt able to 
offer subsidence damage cover on such a policy.
Miss F said she very worried for a number of days and nights that something might happen 
to the property that wouldnt have been covered by her insurance. And that mustve been 
very upsetting. 
The policy underwriters have confirmed that Miss Fs ability to claim on her policy in previous 
years wasnt affected by its use as a main residence rather than occasional holiday home. I 
realise Miss F says this wasnt tested as she never needed to make a claim. And the unclear 
situation regarding subsidence cover, which appears on the policy information for some 
years, leads her to wonder what wouldve happened had her property suffered that sort of 
damage. But while I understand her concern and anger, I cant look into something that 
didnt happen.
Now the underwriters have more information about the use of the property they have made a 
decision not to take on the risk associated with offering insurance cover in these 
circumstances. I realise this has caused Miss F some worry. 
Miss F is concerned that she might not have been properly insured for the many years she 
has used the property. But the underwriters have confirmed they wouldve considered any 
claim against the insurance policy, had one arisen.
I know Miss F feels she should be repaid all of the premiums shes paid to Towergate over 
the years. She says her insurer had been aware of her occupancy status since she first took 
out the insurance policy. And Miss F doesnt think her property was properly covered. She 
says she requested subsidence cover but although it was occasionally referenced on her 
renewal documentation, Towergate says it isnt normally included in its holiday home 
insurance. 
Ive looked at the statement of fact for the holiday home insurance policy. This shows the 
information previously provided by Miss F. It forms the basis on which the insurer decides 
whether to accept the risk and offer insurance cover. And each year the policyholder is 
asked to check the information is correct and that nothing has changed during the previous 
year.
Due to the passage of time it isnt possible to determine exactly what was discussed when 
Miss F first took out the policy. But I dont doubt Miss Fs recollections. And I can see our 
investigator expressed Miss Fs concerns to Towergate whove confirmed they were aware 
of her occupancy as laid out in the proposal form. Miss F says she was clear from the start that she would live in the property for nine months 
of the year. But although the residency wasnt captured on its system (or passed to the 
insurer to review for the proposal) there wasnt a limit in the policy on how much time Miss F 
could stay in the property.
Unfortunately the insurer has decided, having reviewed the information again, that it doesnt 
want to underwrite the risk any more. But I dont think that amounts to Miss F being mis-sold 
the policy in the past. The proposal had been accepted using the information the insurer had 
requested. And theres nothing to indicate Miss F has been disadvantaged.
I know how strongly Miss F feels about this matter. And I recognise the upset caused when 
her long-standing policy was ended by her insurer and she had to urgently seek new cover 
to ensure it included subsidence damage.
But although Miss F didnt make a claim during that time, the underwriters have confirmed 
that Miss F enjoyed the benefit of insurance cover for the years in question. So I cant ask 
Towergate to refund the premiums she has paid. That wouldnt be fair. 
But I do think Towergate should compensate Miss F for the worry shes been put through. It 
mustve been very distressing to feel she suddenly might not be covered if some major event 
occurred while the matter was being resolved. And although Towergate werent able to 
access all of their past records Miss F has gone to great lengths to provide previous renewal 
statements and policy information. 
Putting things right
I understand Miss F has now found suitable insurance elsewhere that includes the level of 
cover she requires. But I dont underestimate the degree of upset this will have caused. 
Miss F suffered a considerable amount of worry while re-arranging alternative cover. And 
she made a considerable effort to provide information to Towergate when it was unable to 
access some of its older records. I can see our investigator has recommended Towergate 
pay Miss F £150 compensation. And I think thats a reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances. But I wont be asking Towergate to do anything more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. URIS Group Limited (trading as 
Towergate Insurance) should pay Miss F £150 compensation for her trouble and upset as it 
has already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman