DRN-2489012
The complaint
Mr J says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a Total Mortgage Protection 
Plan (TMPP) in 2002.  
A TMPP is a type of protection policy which typically includes payment protection insurance 
(PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover. The 
individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr J with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think the TMPP was mis-sold. He disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Js complaint.
We now know the elements of Mr Js policy covered him against losing his job or being too 
ill to work. He says it was implied that if he didnt have this PPI part of the cover, he 
wouldnt have been allowed the mortgage.
I started by thinking carefully about whether Mr J ever agreed to take the PPI part of the 
policy out. The sale was over 18 years ago now and so its not particularly unusual that 
Halifax no longer has all the paperwork still available. Mr J doesnt have any documents 
from the sale either. However, Halifax sent me screenshots of its computer system and in 
my view, these tend to show PPI was discussed and that he agreed to the policy. 
Its unfortunate that we dont have any documents of worth to refer to in this case now. 
However, Ive seen quite a few similar sales to this one. And I know that consumers were 
usually given a choice about whether they wanted any of the elements of cover the TMPP 
offered. I also know that consumers like Mr J were provided with a schedule of the options 
theyd chosen, and they were told they could change or cancel these if they wanted to.
I also note from Halifaxs computer records that Mr J seems to have asked about varying 
the cover at certain points after the sale. This to me suggests he had consented to it in the 
first place and that he knew it was something he had a choice about. So, whilst I accept 
weve got only certain pieces of information left here, it does tend to show Mr J asked for 
the PPI.
I think its therefore more likely that he knew he had a choice about the PPI and that he 
agreed to the policy, rather than it being imposed on him. I accept that after such a long 
time he might not remember or indeed agree with this now. 
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr J because Halifax recommended this to 
him as part of an advised sale. 
I think it was suitable and I say this because he seems to have been eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The cost 
was £16 per month which think was affordable for Mr J.
He may well already have had some sickness protection with his job. But this looks like it 
would have been only a moderate amount and Im afraid it doesnt mean the cover wasnt 
suitable for him. For example, I think the mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment and secured against his home, so the consequences of not being able to make 
the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was designed 
to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if hed needed to claim. In my experience, this 
period is for longer than many PPI policies that were sold at the time and it was for much 
longer than the protection provided with his job.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
similar policies Ive seen, evidence that the costs were set out during the sale was usually 
present. Of course, we no longer have the actual copies now in respect of Mr J, but I think 
its more likely they would have known what the cover was costing and what elements of 
the TMPP he had agreed to. I think he probably had enough information on which to make 
an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J. But to uphold his complaint Id need to think it was more 
likely he never gave his consent or that there were other flaws in the sale. I simply dont 
have that evidence and I think its more likely he tailored the cover to suit his needs of the 
time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint and I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman