DRN-1554173
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
the late 1990's. Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
Around 1997 Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage. There is 
limited information about what happened, but Santander says the sale took place during a 
branch meeting.
The policy provided protection for Mr and Mrs B's mortgage payments in the event 
they couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. It appears the policy 
would pay out for up to 24 months per claim and it cost around £33 a month.
At the time of the sale both Mr and Mrs B were employed, and they both said they were 
entitled to sick pay of six months' full followed by six months' half-pay. They said they had a 
couple of thousand pounds in savings they couldve used to make their repayments, and 
they said they were in good health at the time.
Santander's records show the mortgage account was amended in 2006 upon which the 
whole mortgage became a regulated mortgage.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said there wasn't 
enough evidence given how long ago things happened to fairly say that Mr and Mrs B 
weren't given a choice about PPI. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for them.
Because Mr and Mrs B, through their representative disagree, the complaint comes to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs B's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr and Mrs B have a choice about PPI? 
did they agree to take it out?Santander doesn't have much information about what happened at the time of the sale. And 
this isn't surprising given the passage of time - businesses don't have to keep records 
indefinitely. 
So while I hear what Mr and Mrs B say about Santander not making it clear to them that PPI 
was optional, given the limited evidence available about an event which took place over 20 
years ago, I'm not persuaded I can fairly say that Santander failed to give Mr and Mrs B a 
choice or that they didn't agree to take out PPI.
the advice
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. This means Santander had to 
check that the PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances 
at the time, I think that it was. For example, they were eligible for the cover; neither of them 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and despite their existing 
means they seem to have had a need for the cover.
Mr and Mrs B's representative has pointed to the sick pay benefits Mr and Mrs B both had, 
and referred to their savings as 'significant.'
I'm not persuaded a couple of thousand pounds in savings can reasonably be described as 
significant. I'm also not entirely persuaded that Mr and Mrs B would've been entitled to sick 
pay at the level they say given the nature of their occupations at the time (this level of sick 
pay is in my view generous). But in any event the PPI would've paid out in addition to any 
sick pay entitlement and for longer if necessary - it appears up to 24 months per claim.
So, I don't think it was wrong for Santander to have recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs B in 
their particular circumstances. I think they had a need for cover and I think it could've proved 
useful to them had the insured risks become a reality - I think it could've played a big part in 
helping them protect their mortgage payments and ultimately their home.
the information  
Given the limited evidence available, I accept its possible that the information 
Santander gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But I think 
it's likely they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And as I've 
found above I think the policy was suitable for them  and it would have been useful for them 
if something went wrong. I've also nothing to indicate it was unaffordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
Overall, while Santander might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably 
have done when it sold Mr and Mrs B PPI, in light of their circumstances at the time - and 
because I don't think the policy operated fundamentally differently from what they expected - 
I think Mr and Mrs B would still most likely have gone ahead and taken out PPI had 
Santander done anything more.
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out as a result of having PPI, so there's 
nothing Santander has to do to put things right.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman