DRN-2529599
The complaint
Ms L complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to give her access to her bank 
statements and this caused her severe inconvenience and financial loss. 
What happened
Ms L says in June 2020 she was applying for a mortgage and needed to access her 
previous bank statements to support her application. Ms L says she couldnt access her 
statements from her online banking and made numerous phone calls to Barclays to get this 
resolved, despite being promised the issue had been corrected, it never was. When Ms L 
received copy statements, they showed her married name even though the bank account 
had always been in her maiden name. Ms L says Barclays again promised to put this right 
but didnt. Ms L says because she was unable to provide statements to her mortgage 
provider, she missed the opportunity for a more preferential mortgage offer. In addition, 
during this time, Ms L says she was also unable to sell her investments without these bank 
statements and her investments fell in value, leaving her with no choice but to cash in her 
pension early. Ms L feels Barclays actions have caused her stress and inconvenience and is 
looking for Barclays to compensate her for this and the losses she has incurred- she does 
not accept the £100 compensation they offered her. 
Barclays have accepted they did make mistakes when not removing an internal marker 
stopping bank statements being produced and not correcting the designation name on the 
bank statements. Barclays apologised for the inconvenience caused to Ms L and offered 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ms L wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Ms Ls complaint. The 
investigator felt that Barclays had caused Ms L inconvenience and had let her down. The 
investigator didnt feel the offer of compensation went far enough and recommended they 
pay Ms L £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ms L wasnt happy with the investigators view as she felt the compensation offered wasnt 
sufficient and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain why 
I have come to my decision. I can understand it would have been a stressful time for Ms L 
when looking to move home and secure a mortgage and no doubt frustrating for her not to 
be able to access her historic bank statements online, when she needed them. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider if Barclays have acted reasonably and suitably 
recompensed Ms L, following their failure to provide her with access to her bank statements 
online. 
The first thing to say is that Barclays accept they failed to update Ms Ls bank account 
details correctly when they were initially informed of this as far back as early 2018. I am 
satisfied that part of the problem here was also created by Barclays failing to remove an 
internal marker which supressed the availability of bank statements on Ms Ls bank account 
and to view online, when this should have been corrected in April 2019. 
Ms L says because Barclays failed to correct the problem caused by their mistakes, she was 
unable to produce bank statements required for a mortgage she had been offered, resulting 
in her taking a mortgage with a higher interest rate and on less favourable terms. In addition, 
Ms L says she was also unable to provide the statements for identification purposes to 
enable her to sell investments she held. Ms L says during this protracted period, her 
investments fell in value, leaving her with little other option than to cash in her pension, to 
raise the funds she needed. 
I understand what Ms L is saying here, but like the investigator I cant see the lack of 
availability of bank statements would have been the sole reason for her not getting the 
mortgage she was applying for at the time. Its worth mentioning that the reason for an 
internal marker being placed on the bank account, even though it should have been 
removed by this time, related to an unpaid debt and default against Ms L  this was repaid in 
March 2019. I say this because given the fact there was a default registered against Ms L 
previously, this may have also contributed to why a less favourable offer was eventually 
offered to her. Its important to say the issues surrounding the default marker have been 
considered separately by this service, so I wont be commenting on that. 
I think its also fair to say Ms L was made aware of the issue of providing bank statements in 
2019, so she did have time to have ensured this problem had been corrected when she 
applied for a mortgage again, over a year later. 
Like the investigator I cant say conclusively, that by not having access to bank statements, 
while inconvenient, was the sole reason for not Ms L selling her investments at that time, as 
it may have been possible for other documents to have been presented, to meet the needs 
of identification. In any event, as Ms L didnt sell the investments, I am unable to conclude  
she suffered any financial loss -  it is possible these investments may go up in value again in 
the future. While Ms L may not agree, it was ultimately her decision to cash in her pension to 
raise the monies she needed. 
That said, its not to say Barclays havent made mistakes here. They should have amended 
the details on Ms Ls bank account when they were first asked and removed the internal 
marker which contributed to the lack of bank statements being available online. Barclays 
caused Ms L further inconvenience by not putting this right when they said they would, 
causing her to make unnecessary follow up telephone calls. 
While Ms L feels Barclays should pay her a considerable amount for the problems they have 
caused, for the reasons I have already given, I cant hold Barclays responsible for the losses 
Ms L believes she has incurred. My role isnt to penalise banks, like Barclays, when 
mistakes happen, but to ensure they apologise, put matters right and offer suitable redress 
for any inconvenience caused. With this in mind, while Barclays have gone some of the way 
to make things good, I am of the opinion the offer of £100 does not go quite far enough and I 
would agree with the investigator, £200 seems a more suitable amount of redress here.
Putting things right
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms L £200 by way of compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Ms L £200 by way of compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman