DRN-2178151
The complaint
Mr M says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr M says MYJAR didnt carry out 
sufficient expenditure checks. He had other short-term loans, was repeat borrowing and got 
into a spiral of debt. This resulted in a worsening of his already poor financial situation.
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr M between November 
2017 and July 2019. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 15/11/2017 30/11/2018 12 £875.00 £138.80
2 01/01/2019 26/04/2019 6 £600.00 £177.22
3 01/06/2019 09/07/2019 6 £600.00 £186.31
4 15/07/2019 Outstanding 6 £800.00 £239.52
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought loans three and four shouldnt 
have been given. They thought that by loan three Mr M was becoming persistently reliant on 
this type of lending and it was unsustainable for him. 
MYJAR disagreed with the adjudicator about loan three but did make an offer for loan four. 
We put the offer to Mr M, and he sought clarification from our adjudicator about what this 
meant for him. MYJAR told us he had an outstanding balance on loan four so after offsetting 
the redress for loan four, the principal amount Mr M owed to MYJAR would be reduced to 
£190.16.
Mr M didnt reply to the adjudicator.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr M didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one and two shouldnt be 
upheld. And MYJAR has already offered to pay redress for loan four. Because of this, I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with 
MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. After doing so Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Mr M, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
three. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR ought to have realised Mr M was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr M had taken out three loans within just under 18 months and 
Mr M had been indebted to MYJAR for nearly all of that time. In response to the 
adjudicator MYJAR said it didnt think a pattern of borrowing had emerged by the time loan three was taken. And it also said there was one payday cycle after loan two 
was repaid and loan three was agreed. But as Ive said, Mr M had been indebted for 
16 months at this point so MYJAR ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mr M was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances, or was using the lending to boost his income and that Mr Ms 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ms first loan was for £875 and loan three was for £600. While the amount 
borrowed at loan three was less (and loan two which was for the same amount) I 
note that Mr Ms monthly repayments had increased because he had reduced the 
term from 12 months to six months. Mr M repaid loan three only a month after he had 
taken it but returned less than a week later to borrow a larger sum. This suggests to 
me Mr M was juggling his finances in order to make ends meet and that the lending 
was proving unsustainable. 
And I note Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed MYJAR. 
Loan four was taken out 20 months after Mr Ms first. And as Ive said above, it was 
for a larger amount. Mr M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to MYJAR over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing from loan three 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the e length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loan three (loan four having 
already been upheld by the adjudicator and MYJAR agreeing) and MYJAR should put things 
right.
Putting things right  Ive included both loans  three and four  for completeness
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ms loan (four) has been transferred to a third party 
MYJAR should buy the loan back if it can. If MYJAR cant buy the loan back, then it needs 
to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved:
 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, fees 
and charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr M which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld
outstanding  loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results in Mr M having made overpayments then MYJAR should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr M. 
E) The number of loans taken from loan three onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans three and four should be 
removed from Mr Ms credit file. MYJAR does not have to remove loan four from     
Mr Ms credit file until this have been repaid, but any adverse information recorded 
about this loan should still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr M still has an outstanding balance due, then MYJAR should try 
and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr M in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind MYJAR of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman