DRN-4483071
The complaint
Mr M complains that Revolut Ltd has declined to reimburse him for payments made as part 
of an investment scam.
What happened
For the purposes of this decision, Ill refer to Mr M in relation to both his submissions and 
that of his professional representatives.
Mr M says that he saw an advert on social media for an investment and contacted the 
company for more information. After speaking to someone there (who Ill refer to as the 
scammer) Mr M agreed to open an account with Revolut and with a cryptocurrency 
exchange platform. He was also persuaded to download remote access software and on 
4 March 2022 he gave the scammer access to his phone and Revolut account in order to 
make a payment of £1,000 on his behalf.
Mr M continued to provide the scammer with access to his phone / account to show him his 
profits. He says that while the scammer was accessing his phone he couldnt see what they 
were doing. In total over £45,000 was sent from Mr Ms Revolut account over 12 payments.
Mr M says he recalls seeing a message on his phone after the remote access had ended 
and realising how much money hed lost. On 19 March 2022 Mr M reported the scam.
Revolut declined Mr Ms claim, in summary it said:
Mr M had effectively authorised the payments by giving a third-party access to his 
accounts.
There was nothing unusual for it about these types of payments to a cryptocurrency 
platform as Revolut is mainly used for money transfers. And the funds went to an 
account in Mr Ms own name.
Paying law enforcement services was selected as the first payment purpose so a 
different scam warning was provided than if the correct reason had been chosen.
Mr M took steps to verify the cards that were used to top up his account.
Mr M should have undertaken appropriate investment research  if he had he would 
have seen there was a Financial Conduct Authority warning from January 2022 about 
the company he was in contact with.
When Revolut contacted the cryptocurrency platform to recover the funds it was 
informed no funds remained.
When Mr M complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, they thought that Revolut ought to have done more to identify the transactions as 
suspicious and intervened. But they also thought any intervention or warnings would have 
been ineffective as it was the scammer who was making the payments and who would have 
engaged with those messages. So, they didnt think that an appropriate level of intervention 
would have prevented Mr Ms loss.
Mr M didnt agree, he said:
He was extremely unwell and vulnerable at the time.
Revolut could have detected the use of the remote access software and should have 
called him which would have unravelled the scam and prevented further loss.
It should have been a red flag that paying law enforcement services was selected 
for a payment going to a cryptocurrency provider. Revolut was aware of 
cryptocurrency scams at the time.
The matter was passed to me for consideration by an ombudsman and I issued my 
Provisional Decision on 23 November 2023. Here I explained why I didnt intend to uphold 
the complaint and I addressed Mr Ms additional points. 
Both parties responded with no further information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further information has been provided, my findings are the same as in my provisional 
decision. It remains that Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that the payments were authorised. But for clarity, I 
think it is fair for Revolut to have treated them as authorised. This is because Mr M 
gave a third-party access to his Revolut account for the purpose of making 
payments. Whilst it isnt clear what steps he took on each occasion, theres no 
evidence to suggest he took any steps to remove this access, so I think most people 
would have realised this meant the third party could continue to make payments on 
their behalf.
The screenshots provided of Mr Ms messages with the scammer appear to be on an 
Android device. Revolut has let our service know which version of its App first 
enabled it to detect that the specific remote access software referenced here was 
being used on a device  and for Androids this was released in May 2022. So, on the 
evidence available, I dont think Revolut would have been aware that this was being 
used in March 2022. I therefore dont think Revolut would have known that its normal 
method of communicating with customers through the App wouldnt have been 
appropriate in the circumstances.
I agree that it would have appeared suspicious for paying law enforcement services 
to have been selected in the circumstances. I also think the activity here ought to 
have been treated as potentially suspicious given the pattern, volume, and amounts 
involved. However, this doesnt automatically mean that Revolut are responsible for 
Mr Ms losses.
In order for it to be fair for me to make an award here, I would need to be persuaded 
that if Revolut had taken appropriate steps this would likely have prevented Mr Ms 
losses. In the circumstances I dont think it would have because Mr M has described 
not being able to see the activity taking place on his phone when the scammer was 
accessing his phone. And so, any further questions about the payments or warnings 
would have been seen and answered by the scammer rather than Mr M. I think its 
likely that the scammer would have answered any questions with the aim of 
facilitating the payments and ignored any warnings in the knowledge of what they 
were doing.
Im sorry to hear that Mr M was unwell at the time, I understand he has some serious 
underlying health conditions. In the circumstances, this was a newly opened account 
and theres no suggestion that Revolut was aware that Mr M may be vulnerable. So, I 
dont think this changes what Ive set out above.Revolut took appropriate steps to recover Mr Ms funds, but as they had already been 
utilised it wasnt able to do so.
For these reasons I dont think Revolut needs to do anything further to put matters right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman