DRN-4477916
The complaint
Mr T complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) acted 
irresponsibly by agreeing to a Hire Purchase agreement hed applied for. 
What happened
In December 2013 Mr T acquired a car by entering into a Hire Purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The cash price of the car was £8,816.74, with added interest and charges the 
total repayable was £12,031 over 60 monthly instalments, one at £344.70, 58 at £194.70 
and a final payment of £393.70.
Mr T said he struggled to maintain his repayments and had to take on further borrowing to 
keep up with them. He said this resulted in him entering an Individual Voluntary Arrangement 
(IVA) in 2019. Mr T said this agreement wasnt included in his IVA. And it was only after the 
agreement had been settled, while watching a television program in 2023 that he became 
aware hed cause to complain about the lending. Mr T complained to MotoNovo.
MotoNovo said the checks theyd done at the time were reasonable and proportionate and 
they hadnt seen anything that caused them concern. They said hed satisfied their lending 
criteria and so theyd agreed to lend to him. They asked Mr T to provide his bank statements 
from the time so that they could consider his complaint, but he hadnt been able to because 
of the passage of time. They also said Mr T had brought his complaint too late as it had been 
more than six years since the event and over three years since hed entered his IVA when 
they said he ought to have been aware hed cause to complain. 
Mr T wasnt happy with MotoNovos response and referred his complaint to us.
MotoNovo consented to us considering the merits of Mr Ts complaint. Our investigator said 
that MotoNovo hadnt been able to show the checks they carried out at the time were 
proportionate. But on the evidence, shed seen she didnt think MotoNovos lending decision 
was unfair.
Mr T didnt agree he said if MotoNovo had checked properly theyd have seen he was 
struggling financially and regularly having to take out payday loans. He asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant guidance at the time of lending was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) guidance. 
This said that when assessing whether the lending is affordable.it should be borrower-
focussed, which means its shouldnt just be considered whether the lender will get their 
money back. But what the implications for the borrower are as to whether they could sustain 
the repayments without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties and/or 
experiencing adverse consequences. 
The lender needed to take reasonable steps to assess a borrower's likely ability to be able to 
meet repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. The OFT regards 'in 
a sustainable manner' as meaning credit that can be repaid by the borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement within a reasonable period of time
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did MotoNov complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr T 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did MotoNovo make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr T could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did MotoNovo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
So Ive considered the checks MotoNovo carried out to assess Mr Ts ability to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. Mr T entered into the agreement in December 2013 so 
with the passage of time its not unusual for relevant information to no longer be available.
MotoNovo said Mr Ts application had been manually underwritten. And that theyd based 
their lending decision on Mr Ts credit score and having satisfied their lending criteria. They 
said their checks showed Mr Ts income and that hed a non-discretionary expenditure of 
£13.05 per month, so the lending was affordable. 
Our investigator asked MotoNovo for Mr Ts application details, but these are no longer 
available. As I cant see what MotoNovo knew of Mr Ts circumstances to have an 
understanding of his living arrangements and day to day financial expenditure at the time of 
the loan I cant say their checks were proportionate or sufficient to assess Mr Ts ability to 
meet his repayments in a sustainable manner.
This doesnt automatically mean MotoNovo shouldnt have lent to Mr T, as I need to consider 
whether further checks would have shown that the repayments were unaffordable to him  or 
in other words that he lost out because of MotoNovos failure to complete proportionate 
checks. 
I cant be sure exactly what MotoNovo would have found out if theyd asked. In the absence 
of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information 
set out in Mr Ts bank statements. But again, with the passage of time these are no longer 
available. Mr T has provided his bank statements from 2014, but as this is after the lending 
was agreed I cant consider them in my assessment. And they dont provide any financial 
information showing Mr Ts outgoings for his mobile phone or car insurance and car tax.
Mr T has provided his credit file from this time. And I can see that hed a mobile phone, a 
credit card and store card . His credit file shows he was up to date with his payments for his 
credit card and store card and that he wasnt fully utilising the cards limits. There werent any 
defaults or county court judgements, insolvencies or debt management programs in place. I can see from the credit report screenshots provided by MototNovo that Mr T had an 
overdraft facility of £400 and that hed used £45 of this.
Mr Ts credit card had a limit of £1,750 which if fully utilised would have meant Mr T had a 
monthly outgoing of around £88. His store card had a limit of £230, which would mean a 
monthly outgoing of around £12 a month. And hed have had his monthly mobile phone 
usage to pay. But this wouldnt show that on acquiring a car Mr T would now have the added 
expenditure of car insurance, car tax and petrol.
Mr T has said his car insurance was around £187 per month and car tax £9.62. But Mr T 
hasnt been able to provide any information in support of these figures. So, Ive considered 
the average insurance and car tax for the vehicle acquired by Mr T in 2013  which would 
have been £547.90, around £46 per month. But given Mr Ts age at the time of the lending I 
think a fair assumption of his motoring costs, for insurance would be around £100 with car 
tax and petrol I estimate his monthly motoring costs to be around £150 per month. Mr T said 
his monthly mobile phone bill was around £57 per month. Again, Ive considered the average 
phone bill around this time was about £47 per month. 
Mr T showed his annual income was £14,250 which MotoNovo equated to £1,117.45. He 
said he lived with his parents at the time of the lending and paid £500 per month for rent, 
food and utilities This meant after taking the above expenditure into account hed disposable 
income after the new loan payment is taken of around £125 per month. Which I think shows 
Mr T could meet his repayments in a sustainable manner.
Mr T has said he was reliant on payday loans which is further evidence that the lending was 
unaffordable. And hes provided evidence of these. I can see that Mr T had utilised paydays 
loans on the odd occasion over the previous 12 months, and in the three months prior to the 
lending (17 September 2013 to 17 December 2013), Mr T took out two payday loans totalling 
£125, repayable over periods of 11 days to 24 days.  One was taken out in in September 
2013 and one in November 2013, the last one being for £50. Both loans were repaid within 
the agreed timeframes. I dont think this shows Mr T was dependent on payday loans to 
manage his finances.  
I know Mr T will be disappointed by my decision but taking everything into account Im not 
persuaded that the lending was unaffordable for him, as I think hed sufficient disposable 
income available after hed paid his non-discretionary expenditure.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman