DRN-2800318
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd unreasonably rejected 
a theft claim she made on her motor insurance policy and provided poor service to her. 
What happened
Mrs B says she parked her car on the road outside her house on 10 April 2020 and didnt 
use it the next day due to the national lockdown that was in place. On 11 April 2020 at 
around 10.50pm she heard a car being driven away, but she didnt look out of the front  
window until around 12.30am, at which point she discovered her car was missing. She then 
found her keys were also missing, from the handbag shed left in the hallway. The car was 
later recovered, with the main key in it.  
Mrs B says she and Mr B were in the house all day on 11 April 2020 and took delivery of a 
takeaway meal just after 7pm. They then stayed in the room at the front of the house all 
evening. Mrs B says she always keeps her keys in her handbag, on the bannister at the foot 
of the stairs. She says they could have been taken from her bag at any point after she last 
used and locked the car, but that all the doors to the house are locked overnight. 
Mrs B cant recall if she had to unlock the front door to get the takeaway, but she says she  
would have locked it after that. Mr B says he cant recall if he had to lock the door at 
12.30am, when he checked all the doors before going to bed, or if it was already locked. 
Berkshire investigated the claim and declined it, on the basis that Mrs B hadnt taken 
reasonable care to protect the car and its contents from damage or loss, in line with the 
policys terms and conditions. It said leaving the keys close to an unlocked door had enabled 
the thief to access them without having to enter the house by force. 
 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Bs complaint. Initially, he didnt uphold it. But on 
reflection, the investigator concluded that Mrs B may have acted carelessly, but not 
recklessly. He didnt think Berkshire had shown that she recognised the risk to her car and 
had knowingly taken inadequate measures to avoid it, so he thought Berkshire should settle 
the claim. The investigator didnt think there were errors in the claims-handling. 
Berkshire responded by referring to an email that was sent to policy-holders in Mrs Bs area 
in November 2019 warning them of a spate of thefts in the area. It said keys had been stolen 
from houses in order to steal cars. The advice in the email was to avoid leaving keys within 
reach of a front door and to lock the door. Berkshire said it could show that Mrs B had 
accessed the email on her phone. It said it was reckless for her to not take note of its 
warning. And it said the front door must have been unlocked at some point, as there was no 
forced entry to the house, yet the cars main key was used to take Mrs Bs car. 
The investigator said Mrs B would have received many emails in the five months between 
the warning Berkshire sent and the date of the theft. He didnt think it would have been in 
Mrs Bs mind so long after getting the email. Berkshire then asked for a review of the 
complaint by an ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
The theft         
Mrs B confirmed recently that she couldnt recall getting the email from Berkshire, and said 
she thought it may have gone into her spam folder. But Berkshire can show that the email 
was opened, so it seems Mrs B must have seen it. The email said that cars of the particular 
type Mrs B owned were being targeted. It explained some of the methods by which thieves 
were getting hold of keys and gave ways of ensuring that they couldnt do so easily. 
Mrs B also told us that she was aware of car thefts in her area generally, from the press and 
social media. She said that was why she kept the keys inside her handbag, which was kept 
on the bannister six feet away from the front door (rather than by the front door, where she 
used to keep it). So I think Mrs B has shown that she knew of the risk of theft to her car 
should the keys be stolen from her house and took steps to deal with it. The issue is whether 
the steps she took were adequate, or whether she acted recklessly in taking steps she knew 
to be inadequate.  
I dont think Berkshire can show that Mrs B acted recklessly. I think she thought the keys 
were safe inside her handbag once it was inside the house and well away from the front 
door. The keys couldnt be removed by fishing for them through a letterbox. And as far as 
Mrs B knew, the front door was locked all day and all evening on the date the car was stolen. 
Mrs B finds it hard to believe that the thief entered the house through an unlocked door. But I 
cant see how her key could have been taken from inside her handbag in the hallway - 
without any sign of forcible entry - if the door wasnt left unlocked at some point. 
I think Mrs B may have forgotten to lock the door after she opened it for the takeaway 
delivery. If the family hadnt been out all day due to the lockdown (which seems very likely) 
prior to that point it seems more likely than not that the door had remained locked from the 
previous night. I think most people check their doors are locked before going to bed. Mrs B 
says she and Mr B always did that. Given that her children were sleeping upstairs, I dont 
think Mrs B would knowingly have allowed the front door to be left unlocked. And 
alternatively, the door may have been unlocked at some point during the day (for a purpose 
that Mrs B and Mr B have forgotten about) and wasnt then locked until after 7pm. 
Either way, in my opinion, Mrs B intended the door to be locked and thought it was. I dont 
think she considered that there was any risk of a thief entering the hallway, by force or 
otherwise, and I can see why. It would have been obvious to anyone from the outside that 
the house was occupied. The front room downstairs (right next to the hallway) was lit. Mrs B 
and Mr B were sitting just a few feet away from the handbag. I dont think it crossed her mind 
that it would be possible for a thief to enter the house without alerting her and Mr B to the 
situation, let alone find the key in her handbag, remove it and exit the house.
I can see why Berkshire thinks Mrs B should have noted the email that it sent her in 
November 2019. Although she cant recall seeing it, I think its more likely than not that she 
did. The theft warning from Berkshire - in tandem with the articles she saw in the local news 
and on social media - may have influenced Mrs B to store her handbag in a less accessible 
place than usual. I think its arguable that she acted carelessly if she forgot to lock the front 
door, or to check that it was locked, and that it led to the theft of the key and hence the car. 
But as I dont think Berkshire can show that Mrs B acted recklessly, I think her complaint 
should be upheld.
Berkshire told us that it had concerns about the theft not occurring as reported, partly 
because the method of theft appeared to be odd. I agree that its unusual for a thief to enter 
a house in the circumstances that applied in this case. Berkshire also thought it was strange 
that the thief didnt just grab the handbag. I can see why it had concerns, especially about 
the fact that Mrs B and Mr B were apparently oblivious to someone entering and leaving their house. Berkshires investigator raised the same concern - but then concluded that the 
situation wasnt implausible. 
I think its quite possible that someone could have entered the house stealthily without being 
heard if Mrs B and Mr B were distracted by other noise (such as the sound of a TV) in the 
room where they were sitting. Weve seen numerous examples of thieves taking great risks 
in order to steal vehicles, so although its unusual for a thief to act as this one did, its not 
unheard of. I agree that its strange that the handbag wasnt stolen, but Mrs B says there was 
nothing of any value in it except the keys. A quick glance  would have established that fact. 
And leaving the handbag where it was meant the theft of the key wasnt noted earlier.
Service issues 
  
Ive considered the service issues Mrs B has mentioned. The only one that Berkshire 
attempted to deal with was the concern Mrs B raised about the time it took to finalise the 
claim. Berkshire said the time taken was proportionate to the circumstances of the incident. I 
think that was a reasonable response. Theft claims usually take some time to validate, 
especially if an insurer has reasonable concerns about the circumstances of the theft, as 
Berkshire did in this case. So I dont think there was an excessive delay here. 
I can see why Mrs B was unhappy that she and Mr B didnt get to check the statements 
taken from them by Berkshires investigator. As she was told theyd be sent to her promptly 
for checking - and the statements were central to the claim - I think thats what should have 
happened. But I dont think the inaccuracies in the statements that Mrs B noted after 
Berkshire had declined the claim would have made any difference to the outcome.
Berkshire made an offer for the car on 28 May 2020, but only five days later it declined the 
claim. Any offer is made subject to a claim being fully validated, so I dont think Berkshire 
acted unreasonably in withdrawing it. But I think it must have had concerns at the time the 
offer was made, so I dont think it handled Mrs Bs expectations well.
 
In addition, I can see from the file that that Mrs B had to email Berkshire for updates, when 
she shouldnt have had to do that. Having done so, she didnt get replies to most of the 
emails from Berkshire (or from its investigator). And at least one promised call to Mrs B 
didnt materialise, with no explanation. 
My conclusions
I think Berkshires overall service to Mrs B was poor, and that she faced avoidable worry, 
distress and inconvenience as a result. I think it would be fair and reasonable for Berkshire 
to settle Mrs Bs claim, in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions, and add 
interest to the settlement sum. It should also pay £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs B by its poor service. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Berkshire didnt do so. Mrs B 
accepted them, but she said she was disappointed that Berkshire had concerns about the 
theft not occurring as reported by her. She pointed out that footage on social media showed 
thieves entering properties to access keys, and sometimes even forcing their way past 
householders to do so. Mrs B expressed the huge impact on her and Mr B of knowing that a 
thief had entered their property undetected whilst their children were present. She said they 
were already facing a very difficult time due to the 2020 lockdown, so the impact of the theft 
on them was terrible. Mrs B said even if the claim was paid, they would still be out of pocket, 
having gained nothing but worry and stress over the matter during the previous year.   
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs B is disappointed that Berkshire had concerns about the 
circumstances of the theft. Unfortunately, all insurers have to take care in validating theft 
claims, as they arent always genuine. So its normal for them to look very carefully at any 
situation that seems to be unusual. In this case, some of the facts reported by Mrs B were 
unusual  and it didnt help that the statements she and Mr B provided werent sent to them 
for checking by Berkshires investigator. But as I said in my provisional findings, I think its 
quite possible that a thief managed to get the keys in line with the facts reported by Mrs B.
In my opinion, the incident and its aftermath must have been very distressing for Mrs B and 
the family. Having a car stolen in itself is usually upsetting enough for a consumer - as is 
having a claim rejected. But in this case, knowing that the thief entered Mrs Bs home to 
facilitate the cars theft, especially whilst she and her family were present, must have added 
greatly to its impact. Berkshire isnt responsible for that, but I hope the settlement of the 
claim will help in enabling her to recover from the situation shes had to face.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Berkshire Hathaway International 
Insurance Ltd to do the following: 
Settle the claim in line with the policys remaining terms and conditions
Add interest to the settlement sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date the 
claim was declined to the date of settlement
Pay Mrs B £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman