DRN-4095248
The complaint
Mrs C complains that when she tried to claim on her legal expenses insurance policy UK 
Insurance Limited (UKI) trading as Churchill Insurance told her the claim would be covered 
but later refused to pay her legal costs, leaving her with a large debt to pay. She also says 
UKI arranged for police to call at her home. 
What happened
Mrs C made a claim on her policy for legal costs relating to a claim in the employment 
tribunal. UKI accepted her claim in March 2021 and referred it to panel solicitors to assess.
The panel solicitors contacted Mrs C saying they didnt have time to assess the case and 
were passing it to a barrister. As they wouldnt be able to issue the claim form at the tribunal 
by the deadline they advised her to issue it herself and provided a link to information about 
how to do that. The solicitors also said if counsel advised that her claim had reasonable 
prospects of success, they would then apply to amend her claim form if necessary.
Mrs C called UKI on 18 March 2021. She said it was very upsetting to be a left in a position 
where she only had a few days to lodge the tribunal claim and wasnt confident about doing 
this herself. She asked if she found another solicitor to deal with it, whether UKI would pay 
their costs.  
UKI advised Mrs C it would need to agree terms of appointment before costs would be 
covered and she would have to let the panel firm know she would not be using them, as she 
couldnt have two firms of solicitors acting for her at the same time.
Mrs C gave UKI details of her solicitors a few days later and it sent terms of appointment to 
them that day. In the meantime the panel firm continued dealing with the claim and in April 
2021 counsel advised that the claim did not have reasonable prospects of success.
In January 2022 Mrs Cs solicitors sent their bill of costs and requested payment. UKI 
passed this to a costs draftsman to consider and started negotiating with her solicitors but 
then realised they had never returned to terms of appointment, so it shouldnt have 
discussed paying their costs.
Mrs C complained that she had been led to believe her costs would be covered. UKI looked 
into it further and found she had instructed her own solicitors on 8 March 2021  before the 
phone call on 18 March. UKI said it would pay costs she had incurred on 18 and 19 March 
2021 if they related to issuing the claim form at the tribunal. 
When the bill was checked, UKI said none of the costs from that time related to issuing 
proceedings so they wouldnt be covered. UKI said it would pay the interest on costs from 18 
March to 9 September, when it realised the error. 
UKI says it agreed to pay interest because it referred the bill to a costs draftsman and 
shouldnt have done this  it should have told Mrs C it couldnt pay those costs, and so she 
delayed dealing with the costs while waiting for its response. UKI also paid £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the delay.
Mrs C wasnt happy and referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator thought it 
was reasonable for UKI not to pay her solicitors fees. He agreed there had been some delay 
while UKI assessed her costs but paying the interest together with the £200 it had paid in 
compensation was fair. 
Mrs C had also complained about UKI arranging for police to call at her home. The 
investigator said in light of comments Mrs C had made and UKIs concern for her safety it 
was reasonable to do that.
After Mrs C provided further comments the investigator reviewed things and recommended 
that UKI increase the compensation with a further payment of £300. This was to 
acknowledge the additional distress caused to Mrs C by leading her to believe at one point 
that it would pay some of her legal fees only to then say it wouldnt.
UKI accepted this recommendation and is willing to pay the additional compensation but 
Mrs C doesnt agree and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help 
a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress; and not 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken this into account when considering how UKI dealt 
with the claim.
The policy provides cover for employment disputes. But the terms say: 
Cover is only provided if the claim has reasonable prospects of success  meaning 
that the policyholder is more likely than not to win their case. 
Theres no cover for costs relating to the period before UKI has accepted the claim.
If the policyholder chooses their own solicitors, they must agree to act in line with 
UKIs terms of appointment and their costs are only covered from the date they agree 
to the terms of appointment. 
The appointed representative will enter into a separate contract of appointment 
directly with the policyholder, who is responsible for any of their costs that arent 
authorised by UKI.
These terms are reasonable. UKI is entitled to assess the claim and only provide cover once 
satisfied its likely to be successful, and once terms have been agreed with the solicitors. 
UKI referred the claim to panel solicitors to assess prospects of success. The solicitors 
passed it to counsel to advise. And counsels advice was that Mrs C wasnt likely to be 
successful. An insurer is entitled to rely on legal advice provided its from someone suitably 
qualified and experienced and it isnt obviously wrong. In this case, there was a detailed 
opinion from a barrister and it was reasonable for UKI to rely on it. So it was reasonable for 
UKI to say it wouldnt cover the claim.
Mrs C is unhappy about the delay in getting that legal advice. She says she was left in a 
position where she had no choice but to get her own solicitors to help with issuing the claim 
before the deadline. 
Ive listened to the call on 18 March 2021. UKI clearly explained to Mrs C the following: 
She could file the claim at the tribunal herself and ask the panel solicitors to amend it if and when they confirmed prospects of success, or ask her own solicitors to assess 
the claim  but it would be likely they would also ask Mrs C to file the tribunal claim 
herself as they would need time to assess the claim.
Any solicitor taking on the case would need to assess the prospects of success, and 
they would need to agree to UKIs terms of appointment before it would agree to pay 
for their legal fees.
Whatever action she decided to take, she should let UKI know about it.
I understand Mrs C had already instructed her own solicitors before she made this call and 
she chose to continue using them to help her with her case. But she didnt tell UKI she had 
chosen to use them and although UKI sent the terms of appointment, the solicitors didnt 
agree to the terms as required by the policy terms.
In these circumstances, where the policy terms hadnt been met, no terms of appointment 
were signed, and the solicitors incurred costs that UKI wasnt aware of and had no control 
over, it was reasonable for UKI not to pay their fees.
Having said that, there were some issues with the way UKI handled the claim. UKI has 
acknowledged it caused some delays when assessing whether it should be paying Mrs Cs 
solicitors bill. Mrs C was in a very stressful situation dealing with her employment case and 
this delay, together with the confusion over whether UKI would pay for some parts of the 
legal fees, added to her distress. 
At one point UKI led Mrs C to believe it would be paying some of her costs only to later 
decide not to. This caused further concern for her at a time when she was being chased by 
her solicitors. UKI agreed to pay interest relating to the legal costs and paid compensation of 
£200. Taking this into account, I think a further payment of £300 is fair.
Mrs C was unhappy about how long the panel solicitors took to assess her claim, the fact 
they referred it to a barrister, and that they couldnt deal with it before the deadline to issue 
at the tribunal. Shes also unhappy about her solicitors chasing her to pay their bill. While I 
appreciate how difficult this was for her, I dont think these issues were caused by UKI. 
Finally, Mrs C complained that UKI contacted the police who turned up at her house. She 
had made comments in a phone call that raised concerns about her welfare, and the call 
handler had then tried to get back to her without success. She was concerned about Mrs Cs 
welfare. In those circumstances I think UKIs actions were reasonable.
I appreciate this whole situation has been very difficult for Mrs C. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I think it was reasonable for UKI not to cover her legal costs, taking into account 
the relevant policy terms. And while its actions added to her distress, the compensation to be 
paid, in addition to whats already been paid, is fair.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance to pay 
compensation of £300 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman