DRN-2913034
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC delayed the transfer of an additional permitted 
subscription (APS) to his Barclays ISA. He feels that the delay lost him the opportunity to 
invest when the market was low.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr V instigated the transfer of the APS from his late wifes ISA, held with 
another provider, to his Barclays ISA. 
There followed a series of problems with the transfer form, which were compounded by the 
onset of the pandemic. Eventually, some months later in June 2020, the correct form was 
emailed to Mr V and in August 2020 the transfer of the APS, just over £140,000, was 
confirmed by the other provider. 
But Mr V still couldnt see that the APS transfer had completed. On 24 August 2020 Barclays 
issued a final response to the complaint hed by then made about the matter, saying that it 
had done nothing wrong and blaming the issues on incorrect ink being used on the form.
The APS was still not showing as being available at this point, so Barclays was unable to 
move any money to Mr Vs ISA to utilise the new subscription amount. It was not until 
8 September 2020 that a transfer of around £32,000 could be made. This was confirmed to 
Mr V the following day, at which time he requested some additional transfers be made to his 
ISA from his Barclays investment accounts, bringing the total money transferred to around 
£82,000. 
On 18 September 2020 Barclays issued a second final response letter, this time upholding 
the complaint and acknowledging the delay in Mr V being able to transfer money to his ISA 
to utilise the APS, for which it offered him £100. 
Mr V didnt accept this, and the complaint was referred to this service. During our 
investigation Barclays conceded that the reasons given to Mr V in the first final response 
letter had been wrong and that the delay in administering the transfer of the APS (as 
opposed to the later delay in transferring money into his ISA) had in fact been a result of the 
wrong form being issued.
In light of this Barclays increased its offer for the poor customer service and delays to £300. 
And it also offered to pay interest at 8% on the £82,000 eventually transferred to Mr Vs ISA 
for a period determined by assuming that if the correct APS form had initially been used and 
thered been no other delays, the transfer of the cash could reasonably have been expected 
to complete on 7 May 2020, rather than 8 September 2020. Interest at 8% for this four-
month period was £1,705.39, bring the total amount offered to Mr V to £2,005.39. 
The investigator put Barclays revised offer to Mr V, but he didnt accept it. He felt the loss 
hed incurred by not being able to take advantage of the market when it was low in May 2020 
was significantly more that the new amount offered by Barclays. 
The investigator didnt feel there was enough evidence to fairly conclude how Mr V might 
have invested had the transfer completed earlier, so she didnt recommend that Barclays 
should do more to put things right. 
Mr V remained of the view that Barclays failings had resulted in a lost investment 
opportunity. So, as no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted that it provided a very poor level of service to Mr V, by creating the 
problems with the APS transfer, then by not being able to transfer cash to his ISA once the 
APS was available. So, I wont comment further on the circumstances of those issues. 
What remains in dispute is what represents fair and reasonable compensation for the 
problems and resulting delays. Mr Vs view is that the delays led to a loss of investment 
opportunity  the chance to take advantage of the market lows experienced in the months 
following the first pandemic lockdown in March 2020. 
I can see that Mr V did, in the course of chasing up matters with Barclays during the period 
of delays, communicate that it was his intention to invest in the depressed market using cash 
that had been transferred into his ISA once the APS was available. He even asked at one 
point if it might be possible to invest outside the ISA and then have the new investments 
transferred in later at no cost.
But investing to take advantage of the low market was not contingent upon the APS being 
available. The delays experienced by Mr V were not delays in the receipt of new money, 
such that he was prevented from investing. This was, as Mr V himself has pointed out, 
effectively a book-keeping exercise of reallocating allowances and cash already held. In 
short, if Mr V had wanted to invest to take advantage of the market at any point during the 
process he could have done. 
That said, I do understand why he may not have. I can appreciate that he might have 
preferred the administration of the APS to be sorted out first. But I dont think in the 
circumstances it would be a fair resolution to the matter for Barclays to pay compensation 
based upon a hypothetical view of how Mr V might have invested if the delays hadnt 
occurred, not when he wasnt actually prevented from investing.
The methodology for compensating Mr V that Barclays had proposed  the payment of 
simple interest at 8% for the period of delay  is that generally used when a consumer has 
been deprived of a sum of money. As Ive mentioned above, it wasnt the case here that 
Mr V was deprived of the money as such, it was more that he was deprived of an opportunity 
to add additional money to his ISA sooner, to take advantage of the tax benefits. So, in some 
respects it could be said that Barclays offer is quite generous. 
But Im conscious that this was example of very poor administration on the part of Barclays, 
with one problem leading to another, leaving Mr V having to make numerous phone calls 
and send numerous emails to get the matter sorted out. Even when he complained about the 
issues, Barclays gave him an incorrect response.  
And it shouldnt be forgotten that this whole situation stemmed from very sad circumstances 
for Mr V. So, in all the circumstances, while I dont feel that it would be reasonable to direct any further compensation based upon lost investment opportunity, I do think that the revised 
offer is generally fair, particularly given the level of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr V and the potential that he may have invested sooner if the delays had not occurred.    
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £2,005.39 to settle the complaint 
and, for the reasons given, I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr V £2,005.39.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman