DRN-3062713
The complaint
Mrs G complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) caused damage to her 
car when recovering it under her roadside assistance insurance policy.
Other parties have been involved in this complaint, but as LV are responsible for it, Ive 
mainly referred to them in this decision.
What happened
On 4 January 2021 Mrs G found her car had a flat battery. She called to have her car 
collected, which LV did. But, when it arrived at the garage, they called Mrs G to tell her 
serious damage had been caused to the steering rack  explaining two bolts had been 
broken.
Mrs G asked LV to meet her claim for the damage she says was caused to the steering rack 
by one of their agents, but they refused. She pointed out shed had her car serviced in 
October 2020 and there were no problems then. Mrs G provided CCTV clips of the recovery, 
which showed one of LVs agents moving the wheel side to side while stationary  she said 
this made a horrendous noise and is what the broke the bolts.
LV said theyd received 31 CCTV clips which theyd watched. They said this does show the 
steering wheel being turned while the car is stationary but didnt think this was enough to 
prove mechanical damage was caused. LV added that as the steering on a car is designed 
to be moved wile stationary, they cant see how the bolts snapped during recovery. And they 
said they understood Mrs Gs car was serviced just prior to the incident, but that garage 
wasnt willing to comment or provide any information regarding damaged parts or repairs 
theyd conducted. 
LV said the bolts thatd snapped had a sheer point of many tons, so didnt think the damage 
could have been caused as a result of turning the wheel, even when the car was stationary. 
As a result of that, they thought it more likely it was wear and tear from a pre-existing fault, 
rather than something theyd caused. So, as they had no supporting evidence for Mrs Gs 
claim they were responsible for the damage to the steering rack, they didnt uphold her 
complaint.
Mrs G contacted us, and explained along with the CCTV of dry steering by LVs agent, she 
had accounts from her husband and technicians at the garage.
One of our Investigators looked into things. He explained LV had provided expert testimony 
to say moving the steering in the way it had been, even when stationary, wouldnt be 
responsible for the damage as significant force would have needed to be applied  more 
than a person could. So, he was satisfied this was reasonable to rely on in saying LV werent 
responsible for the damage. 
Mrs G didnt accept this, so, the complaint was passed to me to decide. Before doing so, I 
arranged for us to ask a number of questions and share various information between the 
parties. 
During their responses LV had referred to information online that they say proved their point 
about the strength of the bolts. I arranged for us to ask them about that information. They did 
provide this, but they also asked an independent engineer for their opinion, who referred the 
question on to metallurgic forensic engineer. This report was shared with Mrs G, and 
ultimately LV offered to get the bolts tested to see if this would attribute any losses to their 
agents.
Mrs G was provided with a copy of the response from the metallurgic forensic engineer, and 
said shed prefer to arrange her own testing. She said shed found two people who said 
there was some corrosion on the bolt (meaning it wouldnt be LVs fault) but the shards 
suggest the bolt was forced (meaning it would be). She said the two people shed spoken to 
didnt want to provide a formal report. She said if she hadnt provided a report by a certain 
deadline, then shed like me to proceed.
As weve not heard from Mrs G since, and her deadline has since passed, Ive now decided 
this case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the communication between Mrs G and LV since I was passed this case, most of the 
questions Mrs G asked have had a reply to them. So, with my informal role being about 
deciding a fair outcome to the complaint, Ive focused on doing so, rather than answering all 
questions posed by either party.
Mrs G says LVs agent caused the damage as a result of forcefully turning the steering back 
and forth when the car wasnt moving  known as dry steering. She said her garage 
confirmed this, but they werent prepared to go on record saying this.
I cant know why Mrs Gs garage wont go on the record, but it does mean although I can 
take into account what Mrs G has said the garage said, her evidence isnt as strong as if 
theyd provided some kind of report of why they thought this for me to consider.
So, in the absence of that, Ive looked at the remaining information thats been provided. In 
their response to Mrs Gs complaint, LV have said itd take many tons of pressure for the 
bolts to be sheared as a result of what LVs agent did. They said they couldnt see how this 
would be possible, and felt it was a pre-existing fault.
Following my questioning, a metallurgic forensic engineer also reviewed whats happened. 
He said his first thought was the failure is a corrosion related issue rather than it being 
caused by LVs agents. He said a closer look at the bolts and their fracture surface  looking 
for any evidence of a sheer  would be important. He said, as a final point, he agreed a 
significant force would be required to sheer even one of the bolts, let alone two.
LV added theyd called Mrs Gs garage, who told them theyd never told Mrs G LV had 
damaged the steering rack  all they said was it was internally damaged.
In asking what LV thought had caused the issue, they said they thought it was a mechanical 
failure / manufacturing fault  with the bolts corroding which had caused them to break.
Im not a mechanical engineer, nor an expert on the reason why this kind of issue might 
happen. That means unless Ive got a reason to doubt whats been said, its generally fair 
and reasonable for me to rely on an expert report.Here, Ive got a report which I think makes a strong case for the issue not being down to the 
actions of LVs agents. The garage who Mrs G said it was LVs error havent provided a 
report  and Mrs G hasnt been able to get her own report to prove what shes said.
Taking everything into account, I cant reasonably hold LV responsible for the damage to 
Mrs Gs car, unless Im satisfied theres enough evidence to say theyre at fault. And, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, that evidence hasnt been provided or simply isnt available.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman