DRN-4501784
The complaint
Ms M complains that UK Credit Limited, trading as UK Credit, lent to her irresponsibly when 
it gave her a loan that she says she couldnt afford.
What happened
Ms M took out an unsecured loan of £5,500 with UK Credit in July 2014.
 
Ms M isnt specific in her complaint, but she intimates that UK Credit lent to her irresponsibly 
and unaffordably because it did not take reasonable steps to assess her ability to meet the 
repayments in a sustainable manner while still meeting other reasonable commitments.
Our investigator thought Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. UK Credit disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
When I reviewed the complaint, I came to a different conclusion to that of our investigator. I 
wrote to all parties to explain my thinking and to invite submission of further representations.
UK Credit confirmed that it accepted my decision. Ms M didnt respond. As Ms M didnt 
respond with anything which might have changed my mind, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Ms Ms complaint.
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that UK Credit should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms M. These factors include things 
like understanding Ms Ms income, the total amount Ms M borrowed, her management of her 
existing credit and the length of time Ms M had been indebted. There is no prescriptive list of 
checks a business should do.
 
When Ms M applied for her loan she said that she wanted to pay off some payday loans and 
use the remaining funds for home improvements.
UK Credit looked at Ms Ms financial circumstances. It conducted a credit search, the results 
of which it provided to me. It noted her outstanding borrowing and how much she was paying 
for it each month. It also noted that she had made late payments on other credit. In 
particular, Ms M had taken a secured loan with UK Credit a few months before and she had 
missed two payments on that loan.
 
UK Credit conducted a detailed conversation with Ms M about her finances. UK Credit has 
provided its records of this. 
UK Credit established that once Ms M had met all her essential expenditure, including her 
existing credit repayments and the proposed loan repayments, Ms M would be left with 
around £574 in disposable income each month. Ms M agreed that this was a reasonable 
assessment of her circumstances, having answered direct questions about her outgoings. 
Ms M confirmed that the loan was affordable for her and that she hadnt left out any 
information about outgoings. 
Information about the payday loans was missing from her credit file. I dont know why that 
was  it may have been because they were taken so recently they had not yet been 
recorded. But Ms M told UK Credit about them, and UK Credit took into account that these 
would be paid off by the loan it offered. The loans were for £2,000 meaning that once they 
were paid off Ms M would have increased her existing credit by £3,500  the sum left over 
from the proposed loan of £5,500.
Ms M was asked about her missed payments. She explained that she had problems with her 
car which had caused her a period of financial difficulty. She said that the issues were now 
sorted and would no longer be an issue. UK Credit was satisfied this was a plausible 
explanation given the timing of the previous missed payments. In addition, there was no 
evidence of defaults or CCJs on Ms Ms credit file.
I reviewed Ms Ms existing credit and concluded that for Ms M to sustainably repay all her 
outstanding credit her repayments ought to have been higher  in the region of £320 a 
month, rather than the £251 a month assessed by UK Credit. This would have brought down 
Ms Ms disposable income to around £500 a month. But I think this was still sufficient for UK 
Credit to consider the loan to be affordable for Ms M.
Our investigator thought that Ms M was paying an unsustainably high percentage of her 
income in credit repayments. Even taking into account my assessment of Ms Ms 
sustainable repayments, this would have been about 28% of her income each month, 
excluding her mortgage. UK Credit argues that this did not represent a concerning level of 
debt.
There is no specific percentage of borrowing repayments to income where the amount of 
credit becomes unsustainable. It should be viewed holistically with all the information a credit 
provider has. In the most general terms, someone paying more than 50% of their income 
towards credit repayments may well find repayments difficult to sustain, but this depends on 
many factors, such as overall level of income, period of indebtedness and so on.
 
In Ms Ms case I dont think the percentage of her income she needed to pay to meet her 
credit obligations each month was so high that it alone was enough to make Credit UK think 
it shouldnt lend to Ms M. And I am satisfied that UK Credit conducted necessary and 
proportionate checks to establish that the lending was affordable. It had the benefit of Ms 
Ms credit file, her verbal declaration and explanation of her financial circumstances 
(including her declaration of borrowing which wasnt visible on her credit file) and her 
payslips.On this basis, I am satisfied UK Credit conducted necessary and proportionate checks and 
that it acted fairly on the outcome of those checks. This means I dont think Ms M lost out as 
a result of anything UK Credit did wrong.
My final decision
I do not think UK Credit Limited lent unaffordably to Ms M and I dont think Ms M lost out as 
a result of anything UK Credit Limited did wrong. So, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman