DRN-3256813
The complaint
Mr T complains that he received a misleading email from Curve OS Limited trading as 
Curve.
What happened
In early December 2020 Curve sent Mr T an email containing information about a third party 
business it had partnered with (B). Curves email gave a range of information relating to the 
new partnership. Curve said customers could like a card with B to their Curve account to 
earn cashback. 
Mr T emailed Curve and asked for clarification of the information contained in its email. 
Curve responded and explained that existing cashback limits meant Mr T would need to 
upgrade his account to qualify. In one of Curves emails to Mr T it gave some incorrect 
information about linking a card with B to his Curve account. When Mr T responded, Curve 
corrected its error. 
Mr T went on to raise a complaint and said that not all the information contained in Curves 
email related to him. Mr T also said hed been given incorrect information by Curve. Curve 
issued a final response and explained the main purpose of its email was to let its customers 
know about the partnership with B. Curve also apologised for the mistake that was made 
when responding to Mr Ts queries. 
Mr T referred his complaint to us and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Curve 
had dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr T asked to 
appeal, and said Curves email made it appear as if he qualified for 1% cashback by linking 
a card with B but that was wrong. Mr T said the email was misleading and had caused 
confusion. As Mr T asked to appeal his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the email and understand why Mr T sought further guidance from Curve 
regarding whether he qualified for the cashback. Mr T says he thought the information was 
misleading and has pointed out that his Curve Blue account is described as qualifying for 
cashback for 90 days when used at three selected retailers. The email didnt say what would 
happen if the 90 day cashback period had already expired, but I dont think that makes the 
email misleading. 
Curve has pointed out the main intention with the email was to give details of a new 
partnership and new options for its customers. It wasnt a tailored email, so didnt specifically 
relate to Mr Ts account. As a result, Im satisfied Curve provided general information about 
the new partnership and options for customers. I note that Curves email included a link to 
Frequently Asked Questions and different ways of making contact. I can see Mr T went on to 
seek clarification from Curve by email. Whilst I understand Mr T wanted further clarification 
of the details contained in the email, Im not persuaded that makes it misleading. 
Mr T and Curve sent emails over the course of several days. At one point, a response from 
Curve gave some incorrect information about linking a card with B. But Mr T queried the 
response and the mistake was corrected a short time later. Im satisfied the follow up emails 
Mr T exchanged with Curve set out how the cashback process worked and Mr Ts options to 
qualify. 
I note Curve apologised for the incorrect information Mr T received in its final response. 
Given the mistake was quickly corrected by Curve and didnt lead to a financial loss, Im 
satisfied its apology is a fair way to resolve Mr Ts complaint. As Im satisfied Curve has 
dealt with Mr Ts complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman