DRN-4156095
The complaint
Mr F complains Prepaid Financial Services Limited (PFS), trading as Swiftoo, blocked his 
account without explanation and withheld the money in it. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont set it out in details 
here. But some of the key details are: 
- In February 2022 following an internal review, PFS blocked Mr Fs access to his 
Swiftoo account 
- Mr F asked PFS to return his funds as they were made up of his salary. PFS said the 
funds would need to be recalled by the remitter, his employer. Mr F says his 
employer couldnt do this as there wasnt enough funds in his account for them to 
process a recall in this way 
- Mr F complained to PFS who in response didnt uphold it. PFS said Mr Fs account 
had been closed due to unsatisfactory operations and it could no longer provide him 
with access to the remaining balance on his account
Unhappy with PFS actions, Mr F referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators then looked into it. In summary they found: 
- PFS hasnt shown Mr F isnt entitled to the funds held in his account. And its placed 
unreasonable conditions on its return to him 
- To put things right, PFS should return the funds to Mr F, pay 8% simple interest on 
them, and pay him £250 compensation 
PFS agreed to return the money in the account to Mr F as long as he provided proof of his 
address and identity which Mr F did. PFS then returned £1,030.97 to Mr F and said this 
amount included a £12.50 account service fee for ten months. 
There was some confusion around what our Investigator had recommended PFS do to put 
things right. That is, to pay 8% simple interest and £250 compensation. PFS then agreed to 
do this, but as it hasnt taken any action for some time, the complaint has now been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Financial businesses, like PFS, in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means PFS needs 
to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied PFS acted in line with its obligations when 
restricting Mr Fs account. I know Mr F, and his representative, would like an explanation. 
But neither I, nor PFS, are under any obligation to do so. 
I would also add that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from regulated businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, 
if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the 
information PFS has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
PFS is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before PFS closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Ive note that PFS gave Mr F 60 days notice of his account being closed  which is in line 
with its account conditions say of giving at least two months notice. Having looked at the 
information given to me by PFS, Im satisfied it was entitled to close the account in the way 
that it has done
Since our Investigators involvement, PFS have returned Mr Fs principal funds along with 
the account service charges.  Having carefully considered PFS reasons for holding onto 
Mr Fs funds since February 2022, Im persuaded it didnt act fairly here.
PFS concerns did not relate directly to the funds held in the account, and from what Mr F 
says the funds were his wages. PFS shouldve released this money immediately or carried 
out due diligence to be satisfied Mr F was entitled to them. PFS did neither. 
So as Mr F was unfairly deprived of his funds, PFS should pay him 8% simple interest from 
when it restricted the account up until the day it sent Mr F the funds back. 
Mr F and his representative say this matter caused substantive distress and inconvenience 
as he was left without funds for day-to-day living costs. So Mr F had to get by borrowing 
money from friends and family. Given the severe impact this had on him, albeit for a short 
while, and the embarrassment he likely suffered from having to borrow money, Im 
persuaded £250 is fair compensation. 
Putting things right
To put things right, PFS should: 
- Pay 8% simple interest on the money withheld in Mr Fs account in February 2022 
until it returned this to him*
- Pay Mr F £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered 
* If PFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. Prepaid Financial Services Limited 
should now put things right as directed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman