DRN-4178351
The complaint
A representative for Mrs H complains a whole-of-life assurance policy was mis-sold to her by 
Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
The facts of this case dont seem to be in dispute, so I wont repeat them at length here. 
Mrs Hs representative is essentially unhappy because they feel the policy she took out in 
2009 was mis-sold. They feel its unfair Mrs H has paid more into the policy than itll pay out. 
They feel it wasnt suitably explained to Mrs H. And they feel the amount the policy will pay 
will be less than the expense it was intended to cover. 
Lloyds have provided documents and records from the time of the sale in 2009. Based on 
these, they felt the sale of the policy to Mrs H was reasonable. 
One of our investigators looked at the details of this case. Theyve explained how complaints 
about the handling of this complaint wont come within our jurisdiction. And theyve explained 
why they feel the documents from the time show the policy wasnt mis-sold to Mrs H. 
Mrs Hs representative disagreed, so the case has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions, for the following reasons:
The documents from 2009 show Mrs H wanted a lump sum payment when she died, 
to help with expenses that would arise. The life assurance policy achieves that lump 
sum payment. The fact it may not now cover the expense intended reflects more that 
the price of funerals has risen more than expected. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to have 
had an awareness that would be the case when selling the policy. 
While a full financial review doesnt seem to have been completed, the monthly cost 
of the policy was likely affordable and sustainable, given its size relative to Mrs Hs 
monthly pension income. 
Even if the features of the policy werent explained in detail at the time, the 
accompanying documentation set them out in a clear way. These also included an 
explanation there was an opportunity for Mrs H to change her mind, cancel the 
policy, and get her money back for 30 days after shed left the sales environment. 
While I appreciate Mrs Hs representative has said how Mrs Hs health would have 
affected her ability to listen to, read and understand these explanations, I cant see 
evidence from the time that suggests Mrs H didnt understand this policy. Lloyds did 
enough here to give Mrs H the resources needed to make an informed decision. 
The fact Mrs H has paid more into the policy than she will receive doesnt of itself 
make the policy unsuitable. Its in the nature of life assurance policies that this could 
be the case, just as the pay-out could exceed whats been paid in if someone dies 
relatively soon after taking out a policy. 
Although a savings account was an option, if would not have produced the outcome 
Mrs H wanted in the short term. This life assurance policy would have. I can therefore 
see why Lloyds felt it was reasonable to recommend the life policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman