The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to 
cover Mr M for accident, sickness and unemployment.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M arranged their mortgage during a branch meeting in 1995. However, the PPI 
was not taken out at this time but was instead bought in November 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in May 2020 in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions the may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Mr and Mrs M provided some additional 
comments that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M have a strong recollection of their mortgage meeting. They say it was agreed 
with the adviser that PPI was not needed or wanted at that time. This accords with the 
documentary evidence that Ive seen. They did however buy a life insurance policy at that 
time.
The mortgage went live on 4 December 1995. Lloyds sent Mr and Mrs M a completion letter 
on that date which enclosed a Mortgage Details Form. This listed the costs that made up the 
monthly mortgage payment. The PPI policy was branded as MortgageSure. The form states 
that MortgageSure was not applicable. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M didnt agree to 
buy PPI at this time. But Im also satisfied that it therefore wasnt set up at this time, for 
reasons that Ill go into.
In my provisional decision I had tried to explain the difference between the PPI cover and the 
other cover that Mr and Mrs M bought, because there appeared to be some confusion about 
that. However, I think that confusion remains as, in response to my provisional decision, Mr 
and Mrs M have still talked about the MortgageSure policy as one and the same as the life 
term assurance policy.
DRN-1905661Mr and Mrs M say I dont think the PPI and the term assurance are connected because they 
were not underwritten by a particular underwriter. Thats not the reason. The two policies are 
unrelated because a) the PPI policy covers accident, sickness and unemployment and has 
the benefit of paying the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months, whereas term 
assurance pays out a lump sum upon death and b) the sales of these policies happened at 
different times. I only mentioned the underwriter of the life policy to explain why the cost of 
the premiums for that life policy didnt appear on the mortgage completion letter  because 
its likely that the premiums were being paid as a separate payment to the insurer rather than 
being part of the monthly mortgage repayments.
To reiterate, the life insurance policies that Mr and Mrs M had are not the subject of this 
complaint. To be clear, I am only looking at whether the PPI policy (which was the 
MortgageSure policy) was mis-sold.
To recap, Mr and Mrs M have been clear that they didnt buy PPI at the time of arranging 
their mortgage in 1995, and I am satisfied that was the case. However, Lloyds has provided 
evidence showing that the PPI was sold later. Due to the passage of time, Lloyds no longer 
has any paperwork relating to this sale and only has internal screenshots providing basic 
details such as the start date (November 1996) and end date (March 2000) of the PPI.
Mr and Mrs M have referred me back to a letter from their life insurance underwriter which 
they say demonstrates that the policy didnt end until the mortgage was redeemed in 2006. 
But again, that letter is referring to life insurance and not PPI.
We do not have Lloyds permission to share copies of the screenshots with Mr and Mrs M. 
However, this service is familiar with this type of information and has found it to be accurate 
in other cases that we have looked at where there is other corroborating documentation. 
Overall, in the absence of any other evidence, I am persuaded that I can rely on the internal 
screenshots as a correct record of the start and end dates of the PPI policy.
Its not surprising that Lloyds no longer has any paperwork from the sale. However, this does 
make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching my decision I have considered the 
information that we do have, as well as what I consider is more likely to have happened.
As Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage had already been running for almost a year by November 
1996, I dont consider they would have thought that having PPI was a condition of the 
mortgage. From what we know of Lloyds sales processes at the time, the PPI was usually 
presented as optional (and Mr and Mrs Ms experience from 1995 bears that out). On 
balance, from the limited information available, Im unable to conclude that Mr and Mrs M 
werent given a choice about having the PPI. I consider it more likely than not, that they 
decided to take it out, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember 
doing so.
I dont know if Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs M to buy the policy or not. If it did advise them to 
buy it then, in recommending it to them, it needed to ensure that it met Mr and Mrs Ms 
needs. And from what I know of their circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for 
them.
The couple have said that Mrs M wasnt working in 1996. Therefore, it makes sense that the 
policy was set up just to cover Mr M. Mr Ms employer would have given him six months full 
pay, followed by six months half pay, if he was off work sick. 
Mr M has said that, as the mortgage repayments would only have represented just under 
20% of his reduced pay after six months, he does not believe any PPI provider would have 
been rushing to throw money at me. But the policy wasnt means tested and would have paid out in addition to any sick pay, regardless of the amount of sick pay or mortgage 
repayment amount.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs M had any substantial savings at the time that 
they could have fallen back on. Theyve said they had endowment policies. However, the 
evidence provided shows that the earliest maturity date for these was 2000. The couple has 
talked about inheritances but it sounds as if these too post-dated the sale.
Mr M has provided evidence of his pension entitlement if he had been medically retired at 
the time. But not all accidents or illness lead to someone being medically retired  and its 
usually quite a lengthy process before medical retirement is agreed. The PPI provided cover 
for conditions that required time off work but that someone could recover from, subject to the 
terms of the policy. So the PPI policy was not duplicating Mr Ms existing cover.
Mr M took early retirement in 1999 and says that he knew he was going to do this at the time 
of the sale. I can see from the Financial Interview Record Form from September 1995 that 
Mr M had answered No to the question  Would you like to retire before your normal 
retirement age. Of course his intentions could have changed by 1996 when the PPI was 
taken out. But even so, that still meant that he would have been able to potentially benefit 
from the policy for three years. Im not persuaded that the policy was unsuitable because Mr 
M might have been considering retiring in three years time. 
Lloyds had a duty to provide Mr and Mrs M with enough information about the policy for 
them to make an informed choice about whether or not it was right for them. I think that Mr 
and Mrs M would have known something about the policy  that it would cover their 
mortgage repayments if Mr M was unable to work due to accident or sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing 
anything at all about it.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider they had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused them to change their minds.
Ive thought very carefully about the additional comments that Mr and Mrs M made in 
response to my provisional decision, but they have not persuaded me to change my mind. It 
follows that I do not uphold the complaint.
On a slightly different matter, the policy ended in March 2000, some two to three months 
after Mr M had retired and therefore ceased to be eligible for the policy. Lloyds has refunded 
Mr and Mrs M the premiums they paid after 31 December 1999 plus interest. This seems to 
me to be a reasonable response to that part of the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17July 2020.Carole Clark
Ombudsman