DRN-3709531
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the service she received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(DG) when she tried to cancel her satellite TV equipment protection policy.
This decision only covers Mr Bs complaint about DG and his protection policy. It doesnt 
cover any issues relating to the satellite TV company.
In making her complaint, Mrs H was supported by a representative. References to Mrs H 
include her representative.
What happened
Mrs H had a protection policy with DG that covered her satellite TV equipment against 
breakdown and accidental damage. In January 2022 Mrs H had her satellite TV receiver 
replaced by the satellite TV company with a new receiver. The engineer who installed the 
new receiver asked Mrs H if she had a protection policy covering her receiver. When she 
said she did, the engineer advised her to cancel her policy as the new receiver was owned 
by the satellite TV company.
 
Mrs H wrote to DG later the same month, explaining the position with her new receiver and 
asking to cancel her policy. She didnt receive a reply from DG, so she wrote again (March 
2022). Not receiving either an acknowledgement or reply, she also wrote to the Dg Chief 
Executive (without reply). Mrs H contacted DG by email (May 2022) to complain about her 
not receiving a reply to her letters. DG cancelled the policy following receipt of the email.
DG considered Mrs Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. In their final response they said that 
while theyd received her email raising a complaint, they hadnt received either of the two 
letters Mrs H said shed written to them. (They said the last contact theyd had from Mrs H 
was in 2021). DG said they thought it reasonable to expect Mrs H to have phoned them to 
follow up when she didnt receive a response to her first letter (to check if theyd received it). 
She could also have cancelled her direct debit if (as she had indicated) she no longer wished 
to pay for the policy.
DG also said Mrs Hs policy would provide cover for all receivers provided by the satellite TV 
company, even where the company owned the receiver. So, Mrs H being advised to cancel 
her policy by the engineer would contradict the policy of the satellite TV company. DG also 
noted that receivers (whether owned by the company or not) wouldnt be covered for 
accidental damage  whereas their protection policy provided that cover. The policy also 
provided cover for damage to the satellite TV dish and associated cabling. Having received 
her complaint, DG said theyd cancelled the policy. But as they had no record of receiving 
the letters sent by Mrs H, they wouldnt be upholding her complaint and so they wouldnt be 
refunding the premiums shed paid up to the date they cancelled the policy.
Unhappy at DGs response, Mrs H complained to this service. She said shed written to DG 
asking them to cancel the policy, but they hadnt replied (until their final response). As a 
result, shed continued to pay premiums for a policy she wanted to cancel. She wanted DG 
to refund the premiums theyd collected from the date shed written to them asking to cancel 
the policy (with interest). She was also unhappy at the tone of DGs final response and 
wanted an apology and compensation for the distress it had caused her. She also wanted 
DG to clarify their expectations of how customers should contact them.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted what Mrs H had said about sending 
the two letters to DG but didnt think there was evidence to support this. And having 
responded previously to letters sent by Mrs H, the investigator thought it likely DG would 
have responded had they received the letters. She also thought Mrs H had benefitted from 
the policy continuing to cover another piece of equipment in the period, and that she could 
have stopped the direct debit through which DG continued to collect the monthly premium. 
The investigator thought DGs final response wasnt aggressive or the tone inappropriate. 
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. She said she could have cancelled the direct debit  but that would have 
generated demands from DG for payment, causing her more anxiety. She maintained the 
letters were sent, to the address for DG set out in the policy documents. She also thought 
cancellation would be by a request in writing (not cancelling a direct debit). She also 
maintained her view about DGs final response being inappropriately worded, particularly in 
her circumstances. Mrs H also didnt agree about the policy providing cover for another 
device  when her wish was to cancel the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say I appreciate what Mrs H has told us about her circumstances, and the 
impact on her of what has happened.  I recognise why she feels DG have treated her 
unfairly, not replying to her letters and not upholding her complaint. Ive borne this in mind 
when deciding whether DG has acted fairly towards Mrs H.
The main issue in Mrs Hs complaint is that DG didnt respond to the letters she wrote to 
them, requesting the cancellation of her policy. She says she wrote twice to DG at the 
address included within the policy documents (and also to their Chief Executive) to request 
her policy be cancelled. But she didnt receive a reply (and the policy cancelled) until she 
then contacted them by email. DG say they didnt receive the letters Mrs H says she sent, so 
werent aware of her wish to cancel the policy. But when they received her email raising her 
complaint, they cancelled the policy shortly afterwards. They also say Mrs H could have 
contacted them by phone to follow up on her letters (and she could have cancelled the direct 
debit to prevent further premiums from being collected).
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs H and DG have said. While I havent seen evidence of 
the letters being sent (either of them being posted to the DG address Mrs H says she used, 
or copies of the letters sent) I dont have reason to doubt her version of events. Letters do go 
astray in the post (or at recipient addresses where its an office address). This being the 
case, then I think it would have been reasonable  when Mrs H didnt receive a response 
from DG to any of her letters  for her to think they may have gone astray. And the direct 
debits continuing to be collected would also have suggested the letters hadnt been received 
(or actioned). 
In those circumstances, I think it reasonable for Mrs H to have followed up with DG by phone 
(a phone number is set out in the same section of the policy that details the address for 
written correspondence) or by email. And when Mrs H contacted DG by email in May 2022 
(to complain) they received it and considered the complaint (and cancelled the policy).In the circumstances, I dont think DG have acted unreasonably, given they did cancel the 
policy as requested when they received an email. Ive also considered Mrs Hs point about 
not cancelling the direct debit as that would have generated demands from DG for payment. 
I accept that view, and its also consistent with what the policy terms and conditions say in 
the section about cancellation of the policy, where it states:
iv. If you are paying by Direct Debit and tell your bank to cancel your Direct Debit 
Instruction, but do not contact us first, we will not immediately cancel your policy. If 
you do wish to cancel, please contact us directly to avoid any communications 
regarding outstanding payments.
But looking at the wording, this indicates the need to contact DG about cancelling the policy 
(not simply cancelling the direct debit). As Ive said above, I think Mrs H could have 
contacted DG (either by phone or email) when she didnt receive a reply to her letters.
Mrs H is also unhappy at the tone of DGs final response, seeing it as aggressive and 
inappropriate. Ive looked at the response carefully, specifically in the context of what Mrs H 
has told us about her circumstances and the impact it had on her. However, the response is 
factual and sets out DGs decision not to uphold the complaint (and the reasons for that 
decision). While that would have been disappointing to Mrs H, I dont think the tone of the 
response is aggressive or inappropriate.
On Mrs Hs point she didnt agree the policy provided cover for another device  when her 
wish was to cancel the policy, Ive thought about this. I accept she wanted to cancel the 
policy, but DG didnt do this for the reasons set out earlier. As Ive concluded they havent 
acted unreasonably, then I dont think this point affects my conclusion (the policy would have 
continued until DG acted on Mrs Hs email and cancelled the policy, so she would have 
benefited from cover being in place had she need to make a claim).
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that DG havent acted unreasonable, so I 
wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman