DRN-2383084
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with UK Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) decision to cancel his car insurance 
policy.
What happened
There have been several businesses or individuals involved in this complaint who have 
acted on behalf of either UKI or Mr R. For ease of reference, Ill refer only to UKI and Mr R 
by name in this decision, even when referring to the actions or comments of their 
agents/representatives.
Mr R took out a car insurance policy through UKI in March 2020. In July 2020 UKI wrote to 
Mr R giving him seven days notice of its intention to cancel his policy.
This was because it had concerns about the home address Mr R had provided. It also 
discovered that some of the information provided was linked with previous fraud. UKI also 
had concerns about the validity of Mr Rs claims history  in particular who was driving the 
car during previous incidents and whether the policy had been taken out solely for the 
benefit of a third party. 
Mr R cancelled the policy himself before the seven-day notice period had elapsed. UKI 
accepted this but advised he would be barred from all future business with it, and that a 
cancellation charge would be deducted from any pro-rata premium refund he would receive.
Mr R has complained about the decision to cancel his policy. He also says he was promised 
a manager from UKI would call him back which didnt happen.
UKI apologised that Mr R was promised a call back and explained it wasnt able to offer one 
due to the effects of the ongoing pandemic. It maintained its decision to cancel the policy, 
and bar Mr R from further business, was correct based on the concerns it had with his claims 
history and links to potential fraudulent behaviour.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
She thought UKI had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy and fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances. She said UKI was entitled to cancel Mr Rs policy if it 
gave seven days notice and had reasonable grounds to suspect fraud. Based on the 
evidence she was satisfied UKIs suspicions were reasonable.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
UKI has shown that some of the information provided by Mr R at policy inception is linked 
with previous fraud. It says that despite having now satisfied its concerns about the home 
address, and possible impersonation, it still had concerns about these links to possible 
fraudulent behaviour.
UKI has also highlighted that when taking out the policy, Mr R declared two previous claims. 
But, for each, it appears the person driving the car was not Mr R. It says this indicates the 
car may have been being used primarily by other drivers. Based on these concerns, it 
maintains its decision to cancel the policy, after giving the required seven days notice in 
writing, was reasonable. It has also highlighted that it didnt cancel the policy as Mr R took 
the decision to do so himself, before the notice period elapsed.
The general conditions of Mr Rs policy document set out the circumstances where UKI may 
cancel the policy:
5a. Cancellation by us
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you at least 7 days 
notice in writing where there is a valid reason for doing so. We will send our 
cancellation letter to the latest address we have for you. 
Valid reasons may include but are not limited to:
.
where we reasonably suspect fraud
I should point out that its not for me to decide whether Mr R has committed, or been 
involved in, any fraudulent behaviour. What I need to decide is whether it was reasonable for 
UKI to suspect fraud and to take the decision to cancel Mr Rs policy  in light of the 
available evidence.
The terms and conditions require UKI to give its policyholder seven days notice before 
cancelling a policy on suspicion of fraud. Ive seen that UKI gave Mr R the required notice. 
And based on the circumstances and evidence available, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for UKI to have concerns about potential fraudulent behaviour. So, I think UKIs decision was 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and that it was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In addition, I note that it was Mr R, and not UKI, who actually cancelled the policy. This 
means UKI has not recorded the policy cancellation on any external databases, it has only 
barred him from future business with it. UKI also appears to have provided Mr R with a pro-
rata refund of the premiums he paid  which is what I would have expected it to do, in line 
with the terms and conditions of his policy. So, taking everything into account, I dont think 
UKI has treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
In terms of the level of service Mr R has received from UKI, Mr R has complained that he 
was promised a manager would call him back, which they never did. I can see that UKI 
acknowledged and apologised for this in its final response letter. I think UKIs apology here is 
sufficient for the frustration Mr R experienced when he didnt receive a call back.My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman