DRN-2933211
The complaint
 Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC misled him and gave him wrong information in 
relation to his overdraft. 
 
What happened
 Part of this complaint relates to whether or not Mr B had an insurance policy in place to 
cover his overdraft. This has on occasion been referred to as Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI) but also Personal Overdraft Protection (POP). For the ease of reading this decision I 
will refer to this product as a POP.
In 2019, Mr B logged a complaint with Lloyds about his overdraft. He was unhappy as he 
was initially told by Lloyds that POP had been set up on his overdraft. However, he was then 
told that he didnt hold an overdraft, and so POP had never been in place.
After providing Lloyds with his statements, they accepted that Mr B did have an overdraft but 
explained that the POP had ever been applied to it. They explained any charges on the 
account were there as the account had become overdrawn and had been applied in line with 
the account terms and conditions. Lloyds apologised for the confusion caused and sent Mr B 
a cheque for £50.
 
Mr B brought his complaint to our service and we gave our view on it. Mr B accepted our 
findings on this issue. But he wanted to raise a new complaint as he found Lloyds 
communication very misleading and he wanted to be compensated for the poor service and 
mistakes made. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Mr Bs complaint about the service provided by 
Lloyds wasnt one we could look into. She explained that as a service, we arent able to look 
into complaints about complaint handling. As Mr Bs concerns were about the customer 
service received from Lloyds in relation to his complaint with them, our investigator felt we 
wouldnt be able to look into the matter.
 
Mr B disagreed so his complaint was reviewed again. On reflection, it was decided that      
Mr Bs complaint was actually one we could look into. This is because even though his 
complaint about the overdraft/POP has been resolved, the new complaint about the 
provision of information concerning the charges on his account and his overdraft - which is 
part and parcel of the financial service. 
So it was decided that Mr B can complain about Lloyds failure to provide that information to 
him in a timely and correct way, and we can consider the inconvenience of not doing that 
has caused him. 
Looking at everything, it was considered that Lloyds ought to have been able to confirm fairly 
easily and confidently whether Mr B had had an overdraft in place. It was also concluded 
that they did make a few mistakes in their correspondence with him. So Lloyds was asked to 
pay Mr B a further £100 compensation for the errors made. 
Lloyds agreed, however Mr B disagreed and felt a higher amount of compensation should be 
offered, so the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, I agree that Lloyds should offer Mr B a further £100 
compensation for poor service provided. I will explain why.
 
I understand Mr B has raised multiple complaints about Lloyds and the service he has 
received at different times. But to be clear, I am only considering the service provided in 
relation to the overdraft/POP complaint here.
 
Lloyds wrote to Mr B in February and March 2019 saying he didnt have an overdraft facility, 
and that POP had ever been sold to him.
 
It wasnt until April 2019, after Mr B sent Lloyds his bank statements showing he did have an 
overdraft in place that they acknowledged it was there. However, they still confirmed that 
POP had not been in place, which Mr B has since accepted. So Ive considered the impact 
this confusion had on Mr B.
Mr B had multiple calls with Lloyds when discussing this issue, which I have listened to. I feel 
it took an unreasonable amount of time for Lloyds to recognise that he did in fact have an 
overdraft facility, especially when he explained a number of times during different calls that 
he did have an agreed overdraft. I feel it should have been a lot easier for Lloyds to check 
their own records to see whether Mr B had an overdraft and confirm what the charges were 
for. 
I note that Mr B was also incorrectly told that both complaint points were being dealt with 
together, when in fact they had been separated.
 
Lloyds have also explained that the wording of their letters wasnt clear as they couldnt see 
that an overdraft had been in place on the dates specified by   Mr B in 2001, but that there 
had been one in 2002. They added that they werent able to comment on any charges 
relating to the POP, as this was never offered to Mr B or taken out.
 
Overall, I think that Lloydss could have been clearer in their correspondence to Mr B, and 
this is why I think the further £100 compensation recommended is fair.
 
I understand Mr B would like a higher level of compensation. He has explained this matter 
has had a large impact on his mental health and I dont disbelieve him. Im sorry for the time 
it has taken to reach an outcome on his complaint, and I agree it must have been a very 
frustrating and concerning time for him. 
Mr B has also asked that I consider both the FCA and the BCOBS handbooks. We do take 
all relevant law and legislation into account when deciding on every case. While I havent 
needed to review either handbook specifically for this complaint, I have kept them in 
consideration, and Ive made sure that I have asked Lloyds to do what I feel is most fair 
given the level of awards we make. Overall, Im satisfied an additional £100 is a fair amount of compensation in this case. And 
because of this, I wont be asking Lloyds to award anything further. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr B £100 in addition to the £50 that has already been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman