DRN-3364006
The complaint
Ms I complains that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (Virgin Mobile) allowed a third party 
to take out two fixed sum loan agreements in her name. She says it ought not to pursue her 
for the associated debt.
Ms Is complaint is brought on her behalf by a representative. My references to submissions 
made by Ms I includes those provided by her representative.
What happened
Two fixed sum loan agreements were taken out in Ms Is name in August and October 2017. 
I understand that the first was taken out using Virgin Mobiles telesales service and the 
second was in person, in a store.
Ms I told this service that she noticed direct debit mandates relating to the agreements had 
been set up on her bank account soon after. She says that she cancelled the mandates and 
made Virgin Mobile aware shed been the victim of impersonation.
Later, during a mortgage application in 2019, Ms I says that she noticed the loans were 
recorded on her credit file, so, she raised a dispute with Virgin Mobile.
Virgin Mobile responded in February 2020. It said both agreements had been signed for 
electronically by Ms I and had been emailed to her. It wasnt satisfied that there was any 
evidence of fraud or that Ms I had been impersonated.
Ms I referred her complaint to this service in late 2020. She said that shed raised a similar 
complaint with another telecommunications provider and lender which had determined shed 
been the victim of fraud. She provided evidence of the outcome it had reached. Ms I also 
said that her email account had been hacked into, and she didnt have access to it for a 
year, around the time the agreements were taken out. She said that she hadnt reported the 
matter to the police.
Our investigator was satisfied that the person who entered into the first agreement knew 
sufficient personal information about Ms I to pass Virgin Mobiles security measures, as well 
as Ms Is banking details. She said that the agreement had been electronically signed after 
being sent to Ms Is email address, and confirmation texts had been sent to a number used 
by her partner. She said she hadnt been presented with sufficient evidence to ask Virgin 
Mobile to not hold Ms I liable for the agreement.
Our investigator drew the same conclusion regarding the second loan but added that 
someone instore had physically signed the agreement and the signature was a close match 
to the one Ms I had provided. Overall, she said that even if Ms I didnt have access to her 
emails, Virgin Mobile had shown that it had written to Ms Is home address a number of 
times about the loans. She wasnt satisfied overall that someone else had taken out both 
loans in Ms Is name, without her authority.
Ms I disagreed. In summary, she said;
- The signatures on the agreement and the sample provided were not a close match.
- Another lender had accepted Ms I had been the victim of impersonation in relation to 
another agreement.
- Virgin Mobile didnt have any records of calls from 2017 so it wasnt fair to say that 
there wasnt any record of her having raised the issue then.
- A debit card had been used to check identity in store, which wasnt sufficient to 
demonstrate it was Ms I.
- There isnt any concrete evidence to prove that Ms I should be liable for the lending.
Ms I asked for an ombudsman to make a decision on the case so it was passed to me and I 
issued a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
This complaint is about the provision of fixed sum loans, which are regulated agreements 
and ones which we have the power to look into complaints about. Its my role to determine 
whether Ms I consented or provided authority (actual or apparent) for the agreements to be 
entered into.
Ms I has made a number of points about there being a lack of evidence to demonstrate 
without doubt that shed entered into the agreements in question. I accept, in this case, that 
records are somewhat limited; for example, call recordings of the sale of one of the loans 
isnt available.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Firstly, I accept that another lender appears to have concluded that Ms I was the victim of 
fraud in relation to a different matter. But it doesnt automatically follow that she was in this 
case also. I dont know all of the details of the circumstances under which that decision was 
made, and I need to make my decision based on the available evidence pertaining to this 
particular case.
As Ive mentioned above, we dont have a copy of the call during which the first agreement 
was entered into. But we have been provided with Virgin Mobiles contact notes  which 
cover as far back as 2017. These show that the caller was able to successfully answer 
security questions particular to Ms I. It appears that the caller was also able to provide Ms Is 
address at the time, which I understand was a family home, where the mobile handset was 
sent. It seems that the caller was able to provide Ms Is bank account details to set up a 
direct debit mandate. Like our investigator I find it somewhat unlikely that a third party 
wouldve been able to supply all of that information without Ms Is knowledge or consent.
Im also aware that a copy of the agreement was sent to the same email address Ms I has 
used to correspond with this service. Shes said she didnt have access to that email account 
at the time because it had been hacked. However, Ive not been persuaded of that by way of 
evidence I might have expected to see; for example, correspondence with the email service 
provider, a referral to action fraud or the police, or even an explanation as to how Ms I 
regained control of the account after a year.The second agreement was taken out in person, in store. Virgin Mobile told us that it 
wouldve asked to see a debit or credit card in the account holders name and registered to 
the same address as the account holder. I accept the points Ms I has made about whether 
or not a third party couldve been able to produce this to impersonate her  it is a possibility. 
Having said that, like our investigator I think that the signature on that agreement is a strong 
match to the sample which Ms I has provided.
Virgin Mobiles contact notes dont show any contact from Ms I regarding the loans in 
question until February 2020, around two and a half years after the agreements were 
entered into. If Ms I had raised the issue with Virgin Mobile in 2017, as I wouldve reasonably 
expected her to and as she says she did, I think that either her or Virgin Mobile would have a 
record of it. I also find it slightly unusual that Ms I accepts she was aware of the loans, 
considered herself to have been the victim of fraud, and chose not to inform action fraud or 
the police for example.
Virgin Mobile has provided this service with several documents it sent Ms I regarding the 
loans, including missed payment letters, notices of arrears, annual statements as well as 
termination notices. Its shown that the correspondence was sent by either post or email and 
in some cases both. The address used was the same as the one noted on Ms Is credit file at 
the time and the email address was the one which Ms I provided to this service. Im 
persuaded that Ms I wouldve been reasonably aware of some  if not all  of the 
correspondence Virgin Mobile had sent. And as a result, I think she was likely aware the 
agreements were in place and shed been asked to make payments.
Taking into account that Im persuaded Ms I was likely aware of the agreements due to 
correspondence sent to her throughout late 2017 and 2018, I think its unlikely she wouldve 
waited until February 2020 to raise the issue with Virgin Mobile had she not consented to 
them. Particularly because shes accepted, she knew about the agreements in 2017 and 
later found associated credit records in 2019.
Given all of the evidence above, Im persuaded that Ms I ought to have been reasonably 
aware of both agreements from the point they started but seems to have chosen not to raise 
issue regarding them with Virgin Mobile for a number of years. On balance, Im not 
persuaded that the agreements were entered into without Ms Is consent or authority. So, I 
dont think itd be fair to require Virgin Mobile to not pursue her for any sums outstanding in 
relation to the agreements.
Virgin Mobile acknowledged my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add.
Ms I responded making a number of points. In summary, she said;
- Virgin Mobile had been required to ask for identification for the handset taken out in 
store.
- Fraud can generally only occur if a third party has access to someones details.
- It hasnt been proven that it was Ms I who called Virgin Mobile to enter into one of the 
agreements, Virgin Mobile has hidden call recordings and this service hasnt asked 
for them or adequately questioned their availability.  
- Its not been proven, by way of camera footage and call recordings for example, that 
Ms I entered into the agreements.
- Virgin Mobile sent no letters regarding the agreements for two years and only made 
contact with Ms I when she disputed her liability for the agreements.The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of the points Ms I has made in response to my provisional 
decision. And having done so I remain of the view that Virgin Mobile is acting reasonably by 
holding Ms I responsible for the agreements. Ill explain why. 
A large portion of what Ms I has said relates to there being insufficient evidence to prove that 
she entered into the agreements. I accept that I cant know for sure exactly what happened 
at the point both agreements were entered into  I wasnt there. I also accept that evidence  
particularly in relation to call recordings  is somewhat limited. But, Im satisfied that this 
service has asked Virgin Mobile for evidence it considers relevant to the case.
My role is to decide whether Virgin Mobile has acted fairly in all the circumstances. To do 
that, I need to determine whether or not I believe Ms I gave consent, actual or apparent, for 
the agreements to be entered into. As my provisional decision explained, when the evidence 
is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision based on what I think is 
most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
With regards to Ms Is point about whether or not Virgin Mobile asked for sufficient 
identification at the start of both agreements, she hasnt been specific in referring to the 
requirements it failed to meet. In any case, while I need to take into account whether Virgin 
Mobile followed relevant rules and regulations, its not my sole consideration insofar as 
whether its acted fairly. Even if I were to accept that Virgin Mobile hadnt asked for as much 
evidence by way of identification as it ought to have  which isnt something Ive been 
persuaded of  it doesnt automatically follow that it ought not to hold Ms I responsible for the 
agreements.
My provisional decision accepted that its possible that a third party may have had access to 
some of Ms Is details, or her debit card for example. I think my decision set out clearly that I 
had weighed out the possibility of that being the case against all of the other evidence Id 
been presented with. And that other evidence  particularly evidence of letters sent to Ms I 
by email and by post from 2017 onwards, the similarity in Ms Is signature with the one on 
the second agreement and that one of the handsets appeared to have been sent to Ms Is 
address at the time  persuades me that Ms I was aware of the agreements. 
Overall, I remain of the view that theres a sufficient amount of evidence to satisfy me, on 
balance, that Ms I was aware of and had likely given consent for the agreements to be 
entered into. As a result, I think that Virgin Mobile is acting fairly in holding Ms I responsible 
for the repayment of those agreements. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman