DRN-1794379
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has made a mistake and 
caused him to go overdrawn.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr J received a text alert from NatWest, telling him his account was 
overdrawn by around £220. He called the bank and was told that this was because several 
transactions hed made six days earlier had been debited. As he didnt have enough money 
in the account to cover them, hed gone overdrawn. 
Mr J complained about NatWest allowing his account to go overdrawn. He hadnt seen the 
transactions showing as pending on his statement. He thought Natwest must have made a 
mistake.  
NatWest looked into the complaint and explained that Mr J had made six transactions on 12 
March. The merchant had only attempted to claim them from his account on 18 March. 
NatWest explained that between these two dates, Mr J spent his remaining available 
balance. So when the merchant claimed the payments, he went overdrawn. They explained 
that a merchant can take anywhere up to 6 months to claim funds from an account after a 
point of sale transaction. 
An investigator at this service looked at the complaint and didnt uphold it. They couldnt see 
that NatWest had done anything wrong. They pointed out that if Mr J had used his mobile 
banking app, he would have been able to see that his transactions on 12 March hadnt been 
taken from his account. 
Mr J still felt the bank had made an error. He also made the investigator aware of some new 
complaint points. But, as the investigator pointed out, we look at each complaint on an 
individual basis. So, I wont be commenting on those other complaints here.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen, Ive arrived at 
the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I appreciate it may be disappointing for Mr J, but Ive looked at the circumstances and agree 
with the investigator that NatWest hasnt made any mistakes with how it handled these 
transactions. 
Mr J made several transactions on 12 March. The merchant didnt claim these payments 
from his account until six days later. Its only at this point that the funds will be taken from the 
account. During this time, Mr J didnt notice that these payments hadnt yet left his account 
and spent his remaining balance. So when the merchant then claimed the payments, he went overdrawn as there wasnt enough money left in his account to cover these payments. 
There is no evidence of any bank error. 
NatWest confirms that Mr J hasnt been charged for going into his overdraft, due to the type 
of account he has. So all he has to do in this situation is bring the account back into credit. I 
understand Mr J didnt notice that these payments were pending, but this information is 
usually displayed at the top of his online banking statement. 
I dont know exactly what was shown on Mr Js online banking, given the time thats passed. 
But either way, Mr J would have been able to see within the statement, that his transactions 
on 12 March hadnt debited the account.  
Based on all the available information, I cant see any evidence of a mistake by NatWest or 
that Mr J has been financially disadvantaged. Therefore, I make no award of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21July2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman