DRN-3704518
Complaint
Mr F has complained about loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to him. He says the 
loans were unaffordable.
Background
L2G provided Mr F with an initial loan for £300 in June 2019. The loan had an APR of 
1,275.2% and a 78-week term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £1,233.96, 
which included interest, fees and charges of £933.96, was due to be repaid in 78 weekly 
instalments of £15.82. This loan was settled in full with some of the proceeds from loan 2 in 
December 2019.
Loan 2 was for £1,000.00 and taken in December 2019. The loan had an APR of 1,275.7% 
and a 78-week term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £4,113.72, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £1,113.72, was due to be repaid in 78 weekly 
instalments of £52.74. This loan was settled in full with some of the proceeds from loan 3 in 
May 2020.
Loan 3 was for £1,742.04 and taken in May 2020. The loan had an APR of 556.3% and a 
104-week term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £6,884.80, which included 
interest, fees and charges of £5,142.76, was due to be repaid in 104 weekly instalments of 
£66.20. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G didnt act unfairly 
when providing these loans. Mr F disagreed with our adjudicator and so the case was 
passed forward for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My provisional decision of 30 August 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 30 August 2022 - setting out why I intended to uphold    
Mr Fs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by saying that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me decide 
Mr Fs complaint. 
I went on to explain that L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
what this meant was that L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr F could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out 
what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I explained that L2G may have argued that the relatively low monthly payments meant that a 
light touch assessment was proportionate for all of the loans in this case. But I was mindful 
that Mr F had a low income. And L2G didnt agree with the declaration of income that Mr F 
provided on any of the occasions that it lent to him. Furthermore, the credit checks it carried 
out showed Mr F had a history of payday loans and his indebtedness had grown by the time 
he applied for loans 2 and 3. 
So I was persuaded by what Mr F had said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while I accepted that it was possible Mr Fs credit file reflected his choices 
rather than him struggling financially, I added that my experience of these types of cases 
suggested this was unlikely, I was satisfied that further checks would have been 
proportionate here.
And I think thought that if L2G had carried out further checks before providing these loans, it 
would have seen that Mr F was struggling to manage his finances. Indeed, most of his 
income was being taken up by his existing living costs and repayments to his existing 
commitments. Mr Fs bank statements also showed the real reason for his difficulties too. 
Equally it was obvious that Mr F was using the funds from loan 2 and 3 to try and cover the 
hole left in finances by his previous loans.
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr F would not have been able to make the
repayments to these loans without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And as 
that was the case, I found that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mr F was in no sort of position to make the payments to 
these loans without suffering significant adverse consequences.
As L2G provided Mr F with these loans, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. Mr F ended up paying interest, fees and 
charges on loans he shouldnt have been provided with. So I concluded by stating that it was 
my intention to issue a final decision which found that Mr F had lost out because of what 
L2G did wrong and that it needed put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
L2G didnt provide anything further or request any additional time to do so.
Mr F confirmed that he accepted my provisional decision and that he had nothing further to 
add.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Fs complaint. And as neither party has 
provided any further arguments, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still 
upholding Mr Fs complaint. And I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mr F
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable for L2G to put 
things right for Mr F by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr F paid on his loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr F to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information about these loans from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give     
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons above and in my provisional decision of 30 August 2022, Im upholding     
Mr Fs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman