DRN-3921047
The complaint
Mr C has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money for fraudulent transactions 
made in November 2021.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr C complained to Barclays that thered been an unauthorised 
transaction made on 15 November for £1,400. Barclays refunded the money. 10 days later a 
further payment of £1,600 was made to the same outlet. After further review Barclays 
decided Mr C was most likely to have authorised both payments. They didnt take back the 
£1,400 already credited to Mr Cs account. Barclays also confirmed to Mr C that theyd be 
closing his account.
Mr C brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator also believed the 
evidence showed it was most likely Mr C had authorised these transactions.
Still unhappy, Mr C has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Cs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Cs case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Mr C have told us. 
Overall I believe the evidence shows Mr C authorised the disputed transactions. I say this 
because:
The disputed transactions were made using Mr Cs genuine debit card details. Apple 
Pay had been set up on Mr Cs account. When Mr C was issued with a new debit 
card in August 2021, the new card details were set up on Apple Pay. At that time 
Mr C would have been sent confirmation that this action had been taken.
Its very unusual for an unknown fraudster to wait three months to carry out fraud on 
someones account. Ive also looked at the nature of the transactions and theyre not 
that different from the type of transactions Mr C made on his account according to 
the statements Ive seen. Overall this suggests to me even if these transactions 
hadnt been carried out by Mr C, they were probably not done by an unknown third 
party.
Barclayss mobile banking records show a mobile device linked to Mr Cs account 
throughout 2021. This isnt the same mobile device or number I know Mr C currently 
uses. However I find it extremely unlikely that Mr C wasnt already aware of this.
There had been instances of fraud on Mr Cs account previously. I believe it was 
most likely this history of fraudulent claims, along with the technical evidence, which 
led Barclays to decide to close Mr Cs account.
I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling on this matter that he didnt authorise these card 
payments, but I dont believe this is the case. Whilst it is possible he didnt make these 
transactions himself, I believe he authorised these transactions.
I also note that Barclays reimbursed £1,400 to Mr C despite subsequently saying he 
authorised the first transaction. Theyve not asked for this money to be repaid to them.
Overall Im satisfied Mr C authorised the disputed transactions. I wont be asking Barclays to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman