DRN-4342984
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt reimbursed payments she 
made in 2022 for a medical degree. She believes the payments were made as part of a 
scam.
What happened
In 2022, Miss S made three payments by faster payment to an organisation (I will refer to as 
S) who acted as an agent for a medical degree at an institution abroad. 
Barclays felt this was a civil dispute between Miss S and S.
Our investigator agreed with Barclays that this was a civil dispute. He did not think the 
information Miss S had provided was evidence of S carrying out a scam.
Miss S felt S 'masked' a product for it to be suitable for her. She said S knew the course was 
not appropriate when it was sold to her. She was promised online lectures, seminars, and 
full online support for a four-year graduate medicine course. However, once she enrolled 
onto the online programme, she was told online studies are illegal and she needed to 
present a valid reason as to why she couldnt attend on campus. It was also revealed that 
she would need to complete (and pay for) a further two years for her degree to be approved 
by the General Medical Council (GMC). She says S was aware of this and has continued to 
misrepresent the position in its advertising. Miss S believes it meets the definition of fraud as 
defined by the Fraud Act 2006.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Miss S has presented to 
us, but I have read all of her submissions. Im not responding to every single point made but 
instead Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues material to the outcome of this 
complaint.
Im not deciding a dispute between Miss S and S  I dont have the power to look into a  
complaint about S. My role is limited to deciding the dispute between Miss S and Barclays.
Having looked at everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Barclays to 
refund the payments in dispute. I realise this will be disappointing news for Miss S, and it 
isnt the outcome shell be hoping for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
As a starting point in law, Miss S is responsible for payments she has instructed Barclays to 
make for her. Unfortunately, theres little protection available for payments, like this one, 
made by bank transfer.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) does provide 
some protection to victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams. But it excludes civil 
disputes. 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So, the question I need to decide is whether S was acting fraudulently and deceived Miss S 
into giving her money. Specifically, that means deciding whether the evidence shows it is 
more likely that S set out to defraud Miss S with criminal intent. 
Whilst I can quite understand why Miss S feels that S has scammed her, there is a high legal
threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or
failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing
loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). And there are a
number of potential reasons (other than a scam) for the breakdown in a relationship between
two parties and for a dispute to exist. A business could run into financial difficulties, or it 
could simply have been a very badly run business and with poor customer service.
Miss S has pointed to S advertising the course as GMC approved whilst being well aware 
since 2021 that it wasnt. And she considers this to be a false representation to gain money. 
While I understand Miss Ss concerns, I dont consider it necessarily proves fraudulent 
intent.
The business Miss S had contracted with did provide some items/services for her (albeit she 
is dissatisfied with them). S also responded to her complaint (and it seems it doesnt agree 
with what she has said). Its engaged with providing this service information too. This level of 
engagement is not typical of a scam. 
Ss banks investigation did not support the allegation that its customer was conducting their 
account in a fraudulent manner or that Miss Ss payment had resulted from a scam. It 
concluded it was more likely a buyer/seller dispute. While I cannot share the detail of that 
evidence here, I can reassure Miss S that I have reviewed it and I am satisfied the bank 
investigated appropriately and acted fairly in reaching the outcome it did.
On balance, I think there is enough evidence to show S was operating legitimately.
Ive not seen enough compelling evidence to suggest it stopped being a legitimate business 
and began to take customer money without having any intention of providing the services 
that were paid for. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont find the evidence here sufficient for me to 
conclude this was most likely an Authorised Push Payment scam. Nor does the evidence 
persuade me it is more likely than not that the business Miss S dealt with was acting with 
fraudulent intent. In saying that I recognise S might have got things wrong. I accept and 
acknowledge that Miss S may feel she has not received the service she expected and even 
that S may have provided misleading or incorrect information. But that is different from a 
finding of fraudulent intent. Miss S has my sympathies. But overall, I cant safely say that this situation meets the high 
legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. This is not to say that there is no issue at all 
between Miss S and S. Clearly there is. But this type of dispute isnt something that the CRM 
Code covers. 
In saying all of this, I dont underestimate the impact this whole matter has had on Miss S. 
Miss S has strong feelings about this matter. I can understand that - she was out of pocket 
and wanted her money back as soon as possible. Whilst I acknowledge Miss Ss frustration 
with the unenviable situation, she found herself in, its simply the case that I dont think 
Barclays was at fault here and I cant fairly tell it to pay her for the money shes lost.
As the evidence doesnt support a finding that S was operating fraudulently that means that 
Barclays arent responsible for Miss Ss loss and the bank had no obligation or ability to try 
and recover her money. Neither can I fairly require it to apply the CRM Code. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman