DRN-2545846
The complaint
Mr M complains about problems he experienced with Skipton Building Society when trying to 
get confirmation he had sufficient funds to purchase a property. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr M contacted Skipton and asked it to send him a letter confirming he had a 
specific amount available to show he was able to purchase a property. Skipton said it could 
send Mr M a statement showing his full account balance but couldnt send one showing a 
partial balance or write him a letter. Mr M asked to speak with a manager who went on to 
confirm what he had been told. The manager said there was an option to open another 
savings account for Mr M and pay in the specific amount he wanted. But Mr M didnt have 
access to the internet which meant the application couldnt be carried out over the phone. 
During the call, Mr M was told about another savings account that paid a higher interest rate. 
The following day, Mr M called Skipton back and asked to make a withdrawal for a house 
purchase. Mr M was given the option to receive a transfer or for a cheque to be sent out in 
his name. Mr M asked for a cheque to be sent and was told it would take around five working 
days. The cheque was sent to Mr M a few days later. 
Around four days after Mr M asked for a cheque, he called Skipton again and said hed 
visited the property hed hoped to purchase but decided not to proceed. Mr M asked to 
return the cheque. 
Mr M later visited a Skipton branch so he could return the cheque. Mr M has explained that 
due to COVID restrictions, he had to queue outside for around 10 minutes before he was 
allowed in. When Mr M spoke with staff he explained he wanted to pay the cheque into a 
new account, in line with the information that he was given on the phone. But the person Mr 
M initially spoke to said the account he wanted wasnt available. Another member of staff 
corrected the error and Mr M was given an application form to complete. But Mr M was told 
Skipton was only allowing customers in to carry out essential transactions and he was asked 
to complete and return the form in the post. Mr M says other customers were allowed to sit in 
the branch and complete forms.
Mr M says he completed the application outside the branch at some inconvenience. Mr M 
later returned to the branch and says he was asked why he wanted details of his savings 
balance. Mr Ms application was taken by the branch and his new account was subsequently 
opened. 
During Mr Ms branch visit he says staff members advised he wouldnt receive interest on 
the funds he had withdrawn via a society cheque until it was deposited again. 
Mr M complained and Skipton apologised for the service Mr M received in branch and 
offered him £25 for the trouble and upset caused. But Skipton said it had given him the 
correct information about providing evidence of his savings. Skipton confirmed that no 
interest would be payable on the funds that were used to send Mr M a cheque, in line with its 
approach. Skipton also confirmed that its branches were only offering a very limited service 
when he visited. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Skipton had dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M didnt want to provide evidence of his whole account balance, just the 
funds required to complete a property purchase. But Skipton has consistently explained that 
it doesnt provide evidence of partial balances for its customers. During the calls Mr M held, 
Skipton explained that his options were limited as it could only send a statement showing the 
full balance. Mr M explained his passbook contained that information. I understand why Mr 
M wanted a letter confirming a specific figure was available, but as its not something Skipton 
was willing to send him and isnt a service it offers within the account terms, Im unable to 
agree it made an error or treated him unfairly by declining the request. 
During the initial call Mr M held, he asked to speak with a manager. Ive listened to all the 
calls Mr M held with Skipton and didnt find resistance from the call handler. They explained 
the manager would be working with the same rules they had quoted but Mr M was passed to 
a senior member of staff. I didnt find the service provided on the call was poor and Im 
satisfied Mr M was treated fairly. 
While Mr M was speaking with the manager, he was given the option of opening another 
savings account and paying a specific amount into it. But because Mr M didnt have access 
to an email address, the application couldnt proceed on the phone. The call handler offered 
to send Mr M an application in the post and I think that was a reasonable alternative. During 
the call, Mr M explained he needed to supply the evidence quickly to secure a property. But 
Skipton has to follow its account opening procedures which were somewhat limited due to 
the pandemic. I didnt find the options Skipton offered were unreasonable. 
Mr M called Skipton the following day and asked to make a withdrawal. As a result, Skipton 
offered Mr M the option of receiving a cheque or transfer for the funds he wanted to 
withdraw. Mr M said the funds were required for a house purchase in a couple of weeks 
time and asked for a cheque to be sent. The call handler arranged for a cheque to be sent 
and provided the relevant timescales. 
The information Ive seen shows Skipton went on to send Mr M the cheque he asked for, in 
line with the timescales quoted. Ive seen no evidence of a delay by Skipton. Mr M has 
asked why he wasnt given the option of taking a cheque when he called the day before. But 
during the first call Mr M said he wanted evidence he had sufficient funds available. During 
the follow up call he asked to make a withdrawal, which was a different request. 
Mr M complains that he didnt receive interest on the fund withdrawn via a Skipton issued 
cheque. But Skiptons process is that, when it writes a cheque for a customer, the 
earmarked funds are placed in a holding account awaiting withdrawal. Once that takes 
place, the earmarked funds no longer receive interest. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I 
dont agree that Skipton made a mistake in the way it processed his cheque request or that it 
should refund the interest he missed out on. Mr M has told us a property he hoped to purchase fell through because of Skiptons delays. 
But during a follow up call with Skipton Mr M said hed decided not to proceed because the 
property he viewed had significant defects that he wasnt told about before visiting it. Mr M 
told Skiptons call handler that was the reason the purchase didnt complete. And, as Ive 
said above, I havent found that Skipton caused unreasonable delays in this case. 
When Mr M visited a branch he had to queue and was told Skipton was only carrying out 
essential transactions. As a result, he couldnt complete the application form in branch. 
Whilst I understand Mr M is disabled I havent found he was treated unfairly. Skipton gave 
Mr M an application form to complete and return by post as it was unable to carry out the 
process in branch. In my view, that was a reasonable alternative. I appreciate Mr M chose to 
complete the application outside the branch and that he went on to return it directly but I 
think Skipton treated him fairly when he visited. I understand Mr M saw another customer in 
the branch and believes they were completing a form. But we dont know what that customer 
was doing or why they needed to visit the branch. Ive looked at whether Skipton treated Mr 
M fairly when it said he couldnt complete the application in branch and Im satisfied it did. 
Mr M was initially told the account he wanted to apply for didnt exist. But the mistake was 
corrected by another member of staff. Mr M was then given the necessary application form 
and successfully applied for the savings account he wanted. I can see Skipton apologised to 
Mr M in its response to his complaint. I agree it was frustrating to have been given the wrong 
information initially but the error was quickly corrected and Skipton apologised and offered 
Mr M £25. In my view, Skiptons offer for the way Mr Ms branch visit was handled is fair, so 
Im not telling it to increase the award. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But Im 
satisfied that Skipton dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly and its offer of £25 compensation is 
reasonable. As I think Skipton has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Skipton Building Society has made 
an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman