DRN-2685330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the quality of repairs made to their garage roof when Aviva 
Insurance Limited settled their home insurance claim in 2014.
References to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
In 2014, Mr and Mrs A made a claim under their home insurance policy with Aviva for 
damage to their garage roof. It was found that the roof contained asbestos. So, Aviva 
arranged for its contracted repairers to replace the panels with ones made out of concrete.
In 2020, the garage roof began to leak. Mr A contacted Aviva, who sent a surveyor around to 
inspect it. The surveyor concluded that the damage was as a result of poor workmanship.
 
Mr A felt that Aviva was responsible for the leaking roof because its contractors had 
completed the repairs. Aviva said the contractors who attended in 2014 didnt change the 
design of the roof. They simply reinstated roof sheets. It said their work was only guaranteed 
for a year and the company no longer works for Aviva.
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into their concerns and thought the complaint should be upheld. She was 
persuaded that the issue with the roof was likely to have been caused by the work carried 
out by Avivas contractors in 2014.
Aviva disagreed with our investigators view. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva hasnt provided us with the policys terms and conditions from 2014. But its sent us a 
policy booklet dated 2019 and has told us the wording was the same in 2014.
Aviva accepted the claim Mr and Mrs A made in 2014. The terms of the policy allowed it to 
choose to settle a claim by replacing, reinstating, repairing or payment. 
From what Ive seen and been told, Aviva chose to repair the damage to the garage roof. 
This required it to replace the roof panels after it was discovered that the existing ones 
contained asbestos. 
 
When an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repair, wed expect it to indemnify the 
policyholder by carrying out an effective and lasting repair.
The report from Avivas surveyors dated October 2020 says: Considering all the evidence 
available on survey it is our considered opinion that the damage claimed has been as the 
result of Poor Workmanship. The report doesnt give any detail about the damage or the 
workmanship. It just says: claim declined  poor design. 
Aviva says its not responsible for the roof leaking in 2020 because (in 2014) its contractors 
did not change the design of the roof. They simply reinstated roof sheets. The work our 
contractors carry out is only guaranteed for a year
Mr A says he was told by Avivas surveyor that the concrete sheets were too heavy for the 
wooden joists supporting the roof. Mr A says the contractor had failed to assess whether the 
existing joists would be able to take the weight of the concrete. The original roof had been in 
place for over 40 years and had never leaked. 
The information weve received from Aviva isnt very detailed. While its commented that its 
contractors didnt change the design of the roof, it hasnt given any indication of what might 
have been wrong with the original design. It also hasnt shown that the original design didnt 
follow any design rules or regulations when the structure was built. Aviva used concrete 
sheets and no evidence has been provided to show that this was an appropriate material to 
use. 
Im persuaded by Mr As testimony that the previous roof was in place for over 40 years with 
no problems. This is supported by the fact that it contained asbestos, which hasnt been 
used for many years. 
Based on the information I have, it seems likely that the problem was caused by the 
concrete panels being too heavy for the existing joists. It seems reasonable to have 
expected the contractors to have considered this and taken steps to address it, by either 
strengthening the support or using a different material. 
The contractors who made the repairs in 2014 were acting on behalf of Aviva. This meant 
that Aviva was responsible for their actions. And based on the information provided, the work 
carried out was poor.
Aviva has commented that works by the contractors were only guaranteed for a year. Ive 
seen no evidence of this. But even if that was the case, it doesnt remove Avivas obligation 
to carry out an effective and lasting repair. I think its reasonable to expect a garage roof to 
last for considerably longer than six years. So, I think it would be fair for Aviva to put Mr and 
Mrs A in the position they would have been if the repairs had been carried out properly. 
 
Putting things right
When Aviva accepted Mr and Mrs As claim in 2014 it was required to ensure that the repairs 
its contractors undertook were effective and lasting. So, Aviva should arrange for the roof to 
be repaired or replaced to the standard it should have been in 2014.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and direct Aviva Insurance 
Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman