DRN-2458586
The complaint
Mrs Z has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wont increase the amount it has 
offered in settlement of a claim under her home insurance policy after her front door was 
damaged during an attempted break-in. Mrs Z is represented in her complaint by her 
brother, Mr H.
What happened
In 2011, Mrs Z made a claim to UKI after her front door was damaged during an attempted 
break-in.
In 2016, UKI made a payment of £630 in settlement of the claim.
Mrs Z wasnt happy with the settlement. In 2018, after receiving a report and quote from a 
glazier (which Ill call G), UKI offered Mrs Z the option of allowing G to complete the repair 
or to accept a further payment of £256 in settlement of the claim.
Mrs Z didnt accept either of the options. She considered that UKI should pay for a new door 
to be installed at a cost of £3,658. Mr H, acting on her behalf, complained to UKI.
UKI issued a final response letter in July 2018. It wouldnt increase its cash settlement offer 
which it was satisfied was fair.
In August 2018, UKI arranged for its loss adjuster to visit the property and examine the door. 
The loss adjuster considered that Gs assessment of the damage was reasonable but that 
consideration could be given to appointing another glazier to provide a report.
In September 2018, UKI confirmed to Mr H that it still stood by the offer in its final response 
letter of July 2018.
In December 2018, Mr H wrote to UKI with a report and quote for the replacement of the 
door at a cost of £6,094 by another glazier (who Ill call B).
In March 2019, having received no response from UKI, Mr H on behalf of Mrs Z complained 
to us about UKIs settlement offer.
UKI objected to us considering the complaint as it said the complaint hadnt been referred 
within six months of its final response letter of July 2018.
An ombudsman colleague issued a decision in July 2020 concluding that Mrs Zs complaint 
about events before July 2018 was outside our jurisdiction and therefore couldnt be 
considered because the complaint had not been referred to us in time.
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs Z, nonetheless complained to UKI about matters since July 2018. He 
said the loss adjuster had led him to believe that UKI would pay for the door to be replaced. 
He said that UKI had failed to follow the loss adjusters recommendations and had failed to 
respond when he sent it a quote for a new door in December 2018.
UKI didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said there was no evidence that its loss adjuster told 
Mr H that he would be able to claim for a replacement door. It pointed out that the loss 
adjusters report said it considered Gs assessment of the damage was reasonable. It said it  
was not obliged to follow the loss adjusters suggestion to obtain a report and quote from 
another glazier. It said it hadnt responded to the report from B which Mr H had sent in 
December 2018 because it hadnt received this at the time. However, it had now been 
presented with the report and it was not persuaded that this showed its settlement offer was 
unfair.
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs Z, was unhappy at UKIs response. He referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that UKI had done nothing wrong.
Mr H, on behalf of Mrs Z, didnt accept the investigators findings.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To confirm, I am only considering events which have occurred since UKI issued its final 
response letter of July 2018.
I have read the loss adjusters report following its site visit in August 2018. This states:
It is the opinion of the Adjuster that [Gs] review is an accurate review of damage seen at 
property. However to verify loss a different Glazers to review damage and confirm 
repair/overhaul required for reinstatement to be completed. If applicable any additional 
payment can be raised on this basis.
I do not consider that the report implies that the loss adjuster agreed with Mr Hs view that it 
was necessary for the door to be replaced as a result of the damage caused during the 
attempted break-in. On the contrary, the loss adjuster said that Gs report, which concluded 
that the door was repairable and on which UKI had based its settlement offer, had described 
the damage accurately. I have seen no other evidence to suggest that the loss adjuster led 
Mr H to understand that he would be entitled to claim for a replacement door.
The loss adjuster suggested that another glazier could be appointed to verify the loss and 
review the damage. However, I dont consider that UKI was obliged to follow that suggestion. 
This was a claim relating to damage which occurred seven years earlier and on which UKI 
had already obtained a report confirming the door was repairable and outlining the cost. In 
September 2018, UKI confirmed to Mr H that its position as set out in its final response letter 
hadnt changed and I consider this was reasonable.
Mr H nonetheless chose to get a report and quote from B which he sent to UKI. UKI said it 
didnt receive this at the time and so I cant reasonably say it was at fault for not responding 
to Mr H, particularly as it appears he didnt make any attempt to chase up a response from 
UKI before he referred his initial complaint to us.
UKI has since had the opportunity to assess the report and said it didnt cause it to change 
its position.Bs report says:
Due to damage caused by the break in, the existing door is now inefficient and not fit for 
purpose and replacing the door is the only way to significantly improve the security and 
functionality. 
I consider Bs report is lacking in detail to explain what damage it believed had been caused 
during the attempted break-in and why this couldnt simply be repaired. In particular, Bs 
report contains nothing to dispute Gs view that there was no damage caused to the door 
frame. While Bs report says that the door needed to be replaced to significantly improve its 
security and functionality, it doesnt demonstrate that the door replacement was necessary 
due to the insured event. I therefore do not find this report to be persuasive in showing that 
the settlement offer outlined in UKIs final response letter of July 2018 was unfair.
In view of the above, I consider that it was fair for UKI not to change the settlement offer it 
had already made to Mrs Z. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H on behalf of 
Mrs Z to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman