DRN-2277821
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how Newbury Building Society have treated him when he tried to apply 
for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr K has a mortgage with another lender and in January 2020, he approached Newbury 
Building Society to apply for a remortgage. 
Mr K said that his previous lender had agreed to waive any shortfall between his new 
mortgage and the outstanding balance of his old one. Based on the information he gave 
Newbury Building Society, Mr K says they told him they could lend him £90,000.
Mr K applied for the mortgage in March 2020 two months after hed previously discussed the 
mortgage. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Newbury Building Society had changed their 
lending policy slightly which meant the amount they were willing to lend Mr K had now 
changed. They said they could lend Mr K around £76,000, which was based on his income 
alone as long as they could satisfy their own income and status enquiries.
Newbury Building Society asked Mr K for additional evidence to confirm his income and after 
this evidence had been provided, they informed him in April 2020 that they wouldnt be able 
to proceed with the application.
Mr K was unhappy with this, so he made a complaint to Newbury Building Society stating 
that they were prejudiced towards him. Newbury Building Society sent their final response in 
June 2020 saying they didnt uphold his complaint. Mr K then brought his complaint to our 
service where it was looked at by one of our investigators who didnt think that Newbury 
Building Society had acted unfairly.
Mr K disagreed with what our investigator has said and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr K has been very unwell and has been in hospital for some time. I 
appreciate this has been a very difficult time for him. I do hope he is feeling better.
I have reviewed the information provided by Mr K and Newbury Building Society and I can 
see that Mr K approached them in January 2020 to discuss a remortgage. This enquiry was 
made over the telephone. Based on the enquiry made at that time, Newbury Building Society 
told Mr K that they may be able to lend up to £90,000 based on the information he had given 
them. 
Mr K didnt make an application at this time and Newbury Building Society changed their 
lending policy in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This meant that when Mr K sent 
his mortgage application to them in March 2020, the amount they were willing to lend had 
reduced to £76,000. 
I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr K because he originally thought he could borrow 
more, however Newbury Building Society made a commercial decision to change their 
lending criteria based on wider economic issues surrounding the pandemic. They were 
entitled to do this, and I dont think its unreasonable in all the circumstances that Newbury 
Building Society chose to do this. 
In order to proceed with the application for £76,000, Newbury Building Society wanted to 
verify the income that Mr K had stated, and they asked him to provide further information 
regarding his income. Mr K provided further evidence and I can see that this was passed to 
Newbury Building Societys underwriting department. They reviewed the evidence supplied 
and informed Mr K that they were unable to proceed with the application.
Mr K has said that Newbury Building Society accused him of not paying his taxes and this is 
why they declined the loan  he said that this is not the case. From the information I have 
been given, I cannot see that Newbury Building Society said this. They wanted to confirm the 
income and ensure that taxes were paid up to date because the information they had been 
given didnt support that. In addition to this, Newbury Building Society said they were also 
unable to lend due to Mr Ks credit status as they found three interim charging orders on Mr 
Ks property.
When a lender assesses whether to lend to a consumer, they must follow regulations and 
guidelines which are outlined by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We would expect a 
lender to carry out necessary checks to ensure that a mortgage is affordable as this could 
have detriment later for that consumer so, they need to lend responsibly.
Looking at the information provided, I cannot agree that Newbury Building Society have 
been unreasonable in applying their own lending policy and criteria when assessing the 
application that Mr K made. They were entitled to ask for further evidence to support what Mr 
K said he earned. In addition to this, I can see that there are a number of charging orders 
against Mr Ks property. Overall Newbury Building Society couldnt get comfortable with the 
risks of the proposed application and so they declined to go ahead with the mortgage. I think 
this seems fair and reasonable in this particular case.   
While I appreciate Mr K feels very strongly about this matter, I am satisfied that Newbury 
Building Society treated Mr K fairly and reasonably when considering his mortgage 
application.
Discrimination against Mr K
I have thought very carefully about the allegations that Mr K has made against Newbury 
Building Society and the issues he experienced when making his mortgage application.
Having looked through the information and evidence supplied to me, I cannot say that 
Newbury Building Society have discriminated or been prejudiced against Mr K. I understand 
that Mr K believes this is what has happened. However, having reviewed the assessment 
made by the underwriters and considered all the evidence in this complaint Im satisfied 
Newbury Building Society declined Mr Ks application based on their lending policy and 
criteria alone and for no other reasons. I dont think there was any other indication that Mr K 
was treated differently to how Newbury Building Society would treat any other potential 
customers. While Im sorry to disappoint Mr K, I am satisfied that Newbury Building Society considered 
his application fairly and treated him in line with how they treat their other customers.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman