DRN-1726808
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited, trading as NIG Insurance policies (UKI) has 
unfairly said it wont meet a claim he made for a property damaged by a storm. 
What happened
Mr T contacted UKI in late September 2018, as his tenant had told him about damage to a 
storage property he rented from Mr T. Mr T believed the damage had been caused by a 
recent storm  Storm Ali.
UKI agreed to look at the claim and a report from a structural engineer was commissioned. 
That report said there was extensive damage to the roof and walls  but the engineer 
thought the majority of this would have existed before the storm. UKI said, based on this 
report, that it wouldnt meet Mr Ts claim.
Mr T then provided a report from his own structural engineer. That engineer said he thought 
that, although there had been some pre-existing damage, the roof had been functioning 
before the storm  and that it was possible that the high winds had caused the walls to crack 
and bulge.
UKI got two specialists to review the reports, and concluded that there was little or no 
difference between the work required before and after the storm, again saying most of the 
damage was pre-existing. It said it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr T complained, but UKI maintained its position.
Mr T then brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked at the reports and photos that 
had been provided and said he thought UKI had reasonably said it wouldnt meet the claim. 
Mr Ts engineer sent some additional comments suggesting the roof might have functioned 
for several years before it needed renewing, and suggested UKI make a contribution to the 
repair costs.
We shared these with UKI which again said it wouldnt meet the claim. The new comments 
didnt persuade the investigator to change his mind, and he still didnt think UKI had acted 
unreasonably.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I understand that wont be what Mr T wants to hear, 
but Ill explain why.
When I look at a complaint like this, I look at three issues. The first two of these are  was 
there a storm at the relevant time, and is the damage typical of the sort of damage caused 
by a storm.
From the evidence Ive seen, the answer to the first two questions is yes. That means I can 
now consider the third  and often the most contentious  question, which is was this 
damage caused by the storm in question.
First of all, I should say that its reasonable for UKI to appoint a specialist to look at damage 
like this and rely on the view of the expert when deciding a claim. And its also fair for a 
customer to provide their own report. Its not surprising that where there are differences in 
these reports each party tends to think theirs is the more accurate. 
Where there are differences, I look at all the information so I can decide which report is the 
most persuasive. Here there are several reports and sets of photos to consider, and Ive 
studied them all carefully.
Taking everything into account, I think UKI has been fair. Its clear from the photos and 
comments in all the reports that this is an old roof, and I think it is likely that the majority of 
the damage  such as the failing brickwork and distorted ridge line  was existing before the 
storm. Theres also evidence that fairly extensive repairs have previously been done to the 
slates, where the original fixings have failed. Additionally, Ive seen a photo taken about six 
months before the storm, which shows the same problem with the roof ridge as is shown 
after the storm. That suggests this issue isnt new. And even Mr Ts engineer suggested UKI 
should only pay a nominal amount towards the roof itself. Finally, I can see that the inside of 
the building has been lined with what looks like plasterboard (apparently by the tenant some 
time ago) and this doesnt seem to have been affected by the walls moving. That suggests 
the movement had taken place before the boarding was installed  and so before the storm.
Overall, Im more persuaded by the reports and comments provided by UKI, and that much 
of the damage existed before the storm, which only highlighted the problems. So I think UKI 
acted reasonably when it said it wouldnt meet this claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman