DRN-2456454
The complaint
Ms J complains about the handling of her home insurance claim for water damage in respect 
of her let property by Allianz Insurance Plc.
What happened
In March 2018 Ms J was informed by the tenants of her let property that there was a problem 
with water coming in. She made a claim to Allianz who initially inspected in April 2018.It was 
identified that the problem came from the next door neighbours disabled ramp having been 
installed so as to breach the damp proof course (DPC). It was agreed that the repairs to 
Ms Js property couldnt take place until the ramp was removed (the neighbour having died 
and there being no longer a use for it).
Ms J made a claim under her legal expenses insurance to force the neighbours executors to 
remove the ramp. Ms HJ became unhappy with the way that her legal claim was being 
handled, and made complaints of delay in respect of this and in respect of this claim. The 
legal expenses claim is being dealt with separately. In respect of this claim an ombudsman 
at this service issued a decision concerning Ms Js complaints of delays and poor claim 
handling up until a final response letter of March 2019. In that he noted that Allianz had paid 
£250 for poor service and £150 for confusion caused over the issuing of a report for the 
purposes of the proceedings against the neighbour, He made an award of a further £100.
Prior to the March 2019 letter there had been a follow up site visit in January 2019 mainly for 
the purpose of drawing up a report suitable for the proposed court proceedings against the 
neighbours executors. In March 2019 it was agreed that no further action could be taken 
until the ramp had been removed. In October 2019 Allianz was informed by the neighbours 
solicitors that the ramp had been removed, so it arranged for its loss adjusters to carry out a 
follow up visit. This visit was arranged for November 2019, but before this Ms J contacted 
the loss adjusters about the removal of some floorboards so that a full inspection could be 
carried out. The loss adjusters said they couldnt remove any floorboards but offered for its 
contractor to carry out a partial strip out. Ms J didnt want to delay the inspection so arranged 
for a damp specialist company, W, who shed previously been in touch with, to carry out an 
inspection of the floor joists and other woodwork.  
Ms J arranged with W to carry out repairs and damp prevention work. Allianz agreed its 
estimate save for £100 for the renewal of part of the DPC, which it said was work necessary 
because of wear and tear.  Ms J was dissatisfied with the work W carried out. Allianz paid 
her a cash settlement in respect of Ws work but she refused to pay Ws bill, as a result there 
are now court proceedings between her and W.
Allianz arranged a further inspection in April 2020 and its surveyor identified that there was 
now standing water, even though the neighbours ramp had been removed. He also 
identified possible further problems with damp, including a leaking radiator and blocked 
gutter. He also identified a possible problem with the neighbours drain. It was agreed that 
further testing would need to be carried out, but because of the lockdown, there was a delay 
in arranging this.
In August 2020 after a further site visit it was identified that the neighbours drain no longer 
flowed towards Ms Js property. The remaining repair work was assessed and a cash 
settlement agreed and paid to Ms J.
Ms J made complaints about the long delays, the problems caused by W, comments made 
by Allianzs surveyor which she says forced her to abandon any proceedings against the 
neighbour, and Allianzs refusal to pay loss of rent. Allianz agreed it was responsible for 
some delays and agreed to pay Ms J £500 and one months loss of rent. It pointed out that 
loss of rent wasnt covered under Ms Js policy.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Allianzs response was reasonable, 
noting its agreement to pay further compensation.
Ms J didnt agree in particular pointing out that Allianz was responsible for a good deal 
longer delay than had been found by the investigator.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
scope of this decision
As Ive said, Ms Js complaint about Allianz has been previously considered by this service, 
up until March 2019. This includes any delays up until then in getting the neighbour to 
remove its ramp. That also includes the reports of April 2018 and January 2019, which I 
wont be considering in this decision. Also the legal expenses claim, and any complaint Ms J 
has about that is being dealt with separately.
liability of Allianz for work carried out by W
Allianz has said that any fault with Ws work, and subsequent legal proceedings arent its 
responsibility. It has paid her a cash settlement for this and its a matter for Ms J if she 
disputes this. Ms J says she was forced to use her own contractor because of Allianzs loss 
adjusters refusal to arrange the lifting of the floorboards.
Ms J had been in touch with W in September 2019, when shed been given advice. In 
respect of the November meeting, the loss adjuster did explain to her that for health and 
safety reasons it couldnt carry out removal of the floorboards. But it did offer for its 
contractor to carry out a partial strip out. And though I understand Ms Js desire for the under 
floor areas to be inspected as soon as possible, I think it was her decision to instruct W to 
carry out the work. I dont think she was forced into that position by Allianz. Whist Allianz 
agreed to the scope of work and payment for it. That doesnt mean its responsible for the 
standard of work or any other problems caused by W
I note that Allianz refused to pay for DPC repairs, albeit that they were only £100. Ive noted 
that it is in dispute whether W did carry out the repairs to the DPC, and W also alleges that 
they didnt in fact charge for that work. I think that remains to be decided in the proceedings 
between Ms J and W. comments made by Allianzs surveyor
Ms J says it was reported back to her that, following the site meeting in April 2020, Allianzs 
surveyor made comments to the neighbours executors, which effectively prevented her from 
continuing any action against them. She was told by their solicitors that the surveyor agreed 
that there was clear neglect and a failure to maintain the property. I understand that Ms J 
disagreed with the surveyors findings, particularly over the blocked gutter and radiator leak. 
However he has stood by his findings and denies having any conversation with the 
neighbours executors or mentioning that there was any neglect.
I suspect this was the neighbours solicitor putting his own interpretation on what the 
surveyor said. But I cant say, without any expert evidence to the contrary that the surveyor 
was wrong in drawing attention to other issues he thought had contributed to the damp. 
Indeed I note that later Ms Js own surveyors said that internal maintenance in the sense of 
the central heating boiler and plumbing installation were arguable factors. 
Ms J says that the surveyors comments led to the executors being able to sell the property. 
Whether or not that helped the sale, that was a matter entirely out of Allianzs and Ms Js 
hands and it was up to the buyer whether they wanted to proceed. So, whilst I understand 
Ms Js unhappiness with Allianzs surveyors report, I cant say it was wrong or that he 
unfairly reported back to the executors for the neighbour.
delays
Ms J says that Allianz delayed in dealing with the matter, leading to the property being 
unoccupied for a long period of time and losing rent. I should emphasise again that Im 
considering the delays from March 2019, as any delays prior to that were considered by the 
previous ombudsman. Further, as Ive noted above, W was employed directly by Ms J so 
any delays it caused werent Allianzs responsibility.
It was agreed in April 2019 that no action could be taken regarding the repairs until the 
neighbour had had their ramp removed. Allianz says that, although it was removed in August 
2019 it wasnt advised about this until October 2019 and then set up a site meeting. After 
this W carried out the work to deal with the prevention of rot. Allianz was then slow to 
arrange a further site meeting which took place in April 2020. At that meeting, as Ive noted 
above, further issues were identified. It was agreed that testing would need to be done on 
the neighbours drain and soakaway, but because of the lockdown this was put on hold. 
Prior to the meeting in August 2020 efforts were made to agree with the neighbours over a 
further inspection and dye test to establish if water from the soakaway/drain was affecting 
Ms Js property. I cant see whether that particular test was done, though it is evident from 
the meeting notes and report of August 2020 that the parties were satisfied that the 
drain/soakaway was no longer an issue and agreed the cash settlement for the remaining 
repairs.
I think Allianz was responsible for some delays, it could have made arrangements after the 
initial lockdown of March to May 2020 eased.  But I dont think in the context of the time 
period Im considering, its delays significantly stalled the progress of the claim.
loss of rent
Ms J complains that she has lost a substantial amount of rent. Allianz has paid one months 
loss of rent but has pointed out that there is no cover for loss of rent in Ms Js particular 
policy. Ms J believes Allianz is directly at fault for substantial delays so should pay her loss as compensation. She also thinks it fair that Allianz pay her loss of rent and recoup that from 
her former neighbours estate.
To the extent that Allianz was responsible for some delay in respect of the period this 
decision is concerned with, I think its payment of one months loss of rent is reasonable. The 
issues with getting the ramp removed are part of the legal expenses claim. And whilst the 
delays because of lockdown were  a concern for the most part Allianz wasnt responsible for 
that. If Ms J had had loss of rent cover that period may have been covered.
As Ms J unfortunately didnt have loss of rent cover I dont think its reasonable to award any 
further loss of rent. Whilst I understand her point that Allianz could pay the loss and recoup 
it, its not obliged to pay for any uninsured losses, whether or not it might be able to recoup 
them. Again this is an issue concerning the neighbour not removing their ramp and the legal 
expense claim concerned with that.
compensation
Ive noted that, in addition to compensation paid to Ms J in respect of her previous 
complaints, Allianz agreed to pay £500 compensation and one months loss of rent. I think 
that was fair, again taking into account the period this complaint is concerned with.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman