DRN-1795234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has poorly handled a 
claim under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have been represented when bringing this complaint to us. To keep things 
simple any reference I make to them includes their representative. Similarly, any reference 
to Great Lakes will include that of its representatives or agents unless specified. 
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs S suffered an escape of water in their first-floor bathroom which 
also caused damage to their living room below. They contacted Great Lakes and it accepted 
the claim. They moved out of the property and strip out works in September 2019. 
Mr and Mrs S say the agent carried out works without any health and safety inspection. And 
in turn, this led to asbestos exposure and contamination of their home. Great Lakes tested 
and discovered asbestos within the living room ceiling and floor tiles, and within the 
bathroom ceiling. And it agreed to remove all affected areas. 
In early November 2019 Mr and Mrs S instructed a surveyor (Company A) to comment on 
the works completed so far. They outlined the necessary precautions that shouldve been 
taken and made recommendations to carry out further works to ensure the home was safe.
In late 2019 Great Lakes carried out further testing and decontamination works using a 
different asbestos specialist Ill call Company B. Following its advice, Great Lakes said the 
property was safe for Mr and Mrs S to return to. But they disagreed, saying Great Lakes had 
failed to acknowledge its mistakes, and should decontaminate the entire property.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Great Lakes about these issues and the overall handling of the 
claim. It apologised for delays in responding to emails and when making a payment for 
accommodation  and it awarded Mr and Mrs S £250 in compensation. But it disagreed its 
agent had made any mistakes when carrying out initial works.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She agreed Great Lakes had caused a 
small delay when paying trace and access costs. But she found its actions more widely were 
reasonable, including requesting and reviewing evidence as part of its validation process. 
The investigator reviewed evidence provided by both Company A about Great Lakes about 
what happened during initial works. She said there wasnt enough to conclude that Great 
Lakes actions had been unsafe and instead focused on the steps it took after this.
The investigator detailed Company Bs reasons for saying further decontamination wouldnt 
be necessary. And she said Company As report wasnt enough to show Great Lakes agent 
hadnt followed correct procedures when considered against the other available information.
 
She said Great Lakes had agreed to review any further report arranged by Mr and Mrs S. 
And it agreed to repeat air and swab tests again once all repairs had been completed, which 
she felt was reasonable. She concluded Great Lakes payment of £250 was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S responded and asked the investigator to reconsider her opinion in relation to 
the asbestos decontamination, saying Great Lakes had relied on testing from only a sample 
area and were unable to guarantee the property was 100% free of asbestos. Our 
investigator looked again but didnt change her mind, saying she would want to see further 
evidence, from a qualified expert, to show wider decontamination was necessary. 
Mr and Mrs S havent provided anything further but asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons given by our 
investigator. 
From what Ive seen, it seems the dispute that remains in this case is regarding whether or 
not further works and testing should be carried out in relation to potential wider asbestos 
contamination. While Ive reviewed all aspects of this complaint when reaching my 
conclusion, Ive focused on this remaining issue within my decision.
Our service are not experts in this field. And we will take our lead from expert advice and 
opinions when making decisions on technical points. 
Company As report comments on what steps it believes shouldve been taken, and its 
perspective on Great Lakes actions (based on the perspective of a relative of Mr and Mrs S 
who had been present). It concludes that airborne fibres were able to contaminate other 
rooms as doors hadnt been closed or sealed. And in turn it recommended disposal of 
contaminated items and a further survey to take place as it said Great Lakes would be 
unable to guarantee there was no asbestos contamination whatsoever within the property.
After this, Company B visited the property in mid-November 2019 to carry out further 
asbestos testing and works. It carried out two swab samples in all rooms on the ground floor 
of the home, including the living room, dining room, kitchen, hallway/stairs and WC. It said all 
tests returned as no asbestos detected.
On this basis it concluded:
In conclusion, with the above works that have taken place and with the results of the air 
reassurance test/swab sampling and following the HSE approved code of practice and 
guidance- CAR2012, we do not feel any further decontamination works need to take place 
and that the area is suitable for reoccupation.
In response to Company As comments about a guarantee, Company B said:
We cannot guarantee there is no single strand or particle of asbestos created by [agent] at 
the property, nor can we guarantee that there is no single stand or particle of asbestos 
throughout the property as this could come from other substrates within the property. At no 
point would anyone ever state an area to be completely free of asbestos fibres. These fibres 
are found at very low levels in the atmosphere as a result of Mining the silicate minerals, the 
previous use of asbestos in brake and clutch linings of cars, trains and most other type of vehicle. As licensed asbestos contractors we work to a set detectable level of remaining 
fibres when removing licensed materials inside fully enclosed polythene enclosures. This 
level is measured independently by analytic companies when undertaking 4 stage air 
clearance testing. This acceptable level is as stated by the HSE 0.01f/ml air.
Great Lakes has followed the advice of its expert, Company B, in determining the level of 
tests required and subsequently, that the property is safe to return to. From what Ive seen, 
Company B is experienced in this field and made this decision based on all of the 
circumstances, test results, and potential risks. Great Lakes has followed this advice which I 
think is reasonable. 
Ive considered this advice against Company As report. Put simply, while theres a 
disagreement about the extent of the remedial steps needed going forward, Im not 
persuaded it either invalidates or outweighs the other. And for the reasons set out above, Im 
satisfied Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably in taking the actions it has in relation to 
the asbestos testing, and Im not going to ask it to do anything further. Great Lakes has also 
offered to re-test the property again once the repairs are complete, which I think is 
reasonable in the circumstances given Mr and Mrs S concerns.
Mr and Mrs S have been clear that they believe Great Lakes agent acted irresponsibly and 
began works without carrying out proper checks. Great Lakes still disputes this, saying no 
asbestos-containing material was disrupted during their works. Our investigator has 
previously detailed the differing accounts from both parties (so I wont repeat them here). 
Taking these into account, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence for me to find Great 
Lakes made a mistake.
Mr and Mrs S have said the policy limits of the claim related to alternative accommodation 
shouldnt apply. This is because they say Great Lakes mistakes caused the claim to go on 
longer than it shouldve. As our investigator has outlined, this matter has been cash settled 
and the limit never reached, so I see no reason to comment further on this matter.
 
Overall, taking into account Great Lakes delays in making the trace and access payment, 
its lengthy response times, and more generally its overall handling of the claim Im satisfied 
£250 is a fair and reasonable award in the circumstances. So Im not going to ask it to do 
anything further.
 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman