DRN-4278801
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy with several aspects of the service she received from The Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc (RBS) surrounding an international transfer she instructed them to make.
What happened
In July 2022, Miss H instructed a transfer of £40,000 from her RBS account to her daughters
account held with an overseas bank in the European country in which her daughter lived.
The money wasnt received by her daughter, and Miss H learned that this was because her
daughters overseas account couldnt receive payments of more than 25,000 Euros per day.
Miss H therefore asked RBS to make the transfer in instalments over separate days, which
RBS agreed to do.
Over the next several weeks, with the money not having been received by her daughter,
Miss H rang RBS on many occasions but received no explanation as to why the payment
remained outstanding or when it would be processed by RBS. In Mid-August, over five
weeks after Miss H has asked RBS to process the payment in two halves, she was told that
the first of the two instalments had been processed by RBS. But following this, Miss Hs
daughter still didnt receive the money.
A further five weeks passed without either of the two instalments being received by Miss Hs
daughter, at which time Miss H called RBS and asked them to cancel the transfer as her
daughter now needed the money urgently such that Miss H felt it necessary to complete the
transfer via alternative, more expensive means. Miss H wasnt happy about the service shed
received from RBS regarding the transfer, so she raised a complaint.
Miss H was later contacted by RBS who told Miss H that if the transfer was now cancelled as
shed requested and the money recalled, the amount received back to her account would be
about £1,600 less than the original £40,000 amount because of changes in currency
exchange rates. Miss H wasnt happy about this and asked RBS to continue with the transfer
in two instalments as previously requested to avoid the exchange rate loss.
Shortly afterwards, RBS responded to Miss Hs complaint and explained that they felt that
theyd followed the correct process regarding Miss Hs request for the transfer to be sent in
two instalments and so didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Miss H in that regard
and so didnt accept any responsibility for the £1,622.29 currency loss Miss H would have
incurred from the returned funds being converted back from Euros to British Sterling.
However, RBS did acknowledge that there had been an unreasonable delay in attempting to
make the payment in two instalments as Miss H had requested, and they apologised for this
and made a payment of £70 to her as compensation for any upset or inconvenience this may
have caused, as well as a further £10.80 payment in reimbursement of any call costs Miss H
may have incurred in this regard.
Miss H contacted RBS as she wasnt happy with their response to her complaint, especially
as the two instalments still hadnt been received by her daughter following her confirmation
to RBS that she wanted them to proceed with the transfer on that basis. At that time, it was
suggested to Miss H that her daughter could open a new account with another bank which
was more suited to the type of international transfer Miss Hs daughter was trying to receive.
Miss Hs daughter opened an account with the other bank as suggested, and Miss H then
asked RBS to transfer the full £40,000 to this new overseas account.
A further two months passed before Miss Hs daughter confirmed that she had received one
of the two £20,000 instalments into her new account from RBS. Frustrated and unhappy with
how matters had progressed, and with £20,000 still having not been received by her
daughter after more than five months had passed since her initial transfer instruction to RBS,
Miss H referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked this complaint. But they felt that the response to Miss Hs
complaint already issued by RBS  including the explanation of what had happened and the
payment of compensation and costs totalling £80.80  already represented a fair outcome to
what had happened. Miss H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 July 2023 as follows:
It's now understood that Miss Hs daughter has received the second if the two instalments
from RBS, which was processed by RBS on 29 November 2022 and received by Miss Hs
daughter that same day.
As such, the two instalments processed by RBS to Miss Hs daughter are as follows:
22 September 2022: EUR 20,553.55
29 November 2022: EUR 25,000.00
Im satisfied from the information provided to this service that the combined amount of these
two instalments - £45,553.55  is equal to the amount Miss Hs daughter would have
received, had the instalment payments being processed in a timely manner when Miss H
first requested them to be made.
But the question remains as to why, given that RBS first agreed to send the two instalments
to Miss Hs daughter in mid-July 2022, it took over two months for the first of the two
instalments to be processed by RBS, and then a further two months for the second
instalment to be processed.
Accordingly, Ive carefully considered the timeline of events provided by Miss H as well as
the system notes provided by RBS, and in particular the memo notes from their foreign
transfer team. And having done so Ive arrived at the following conclusions as to what I feel
is most likely to have happened.
Miss H has explained that, after the initial transfer attempt for the full £40,000 was declined
by the recipient overseas bank, she spoke with her daughter who went into her bank on 11
July 2022 and relayed back to Miss H that the reason the transfer had been declined was
because her account could only receive a maximum of 25,000 Euros per day. And Miss H
has also explained that she then spoke with RBS that same day and advised them of the
25,000 Euro per day limit and asked RBS to complete the transactions in two instalments.RBS have provided the telephone calls where Miss H advised them of the Euro transfer limit,
and Ive listened to these calls. And its notable that when Miss H speaks with the correct
department regarding the transfer and asks them to complete it in two instalments that she
informs RBSs agent that the transfer limit for the overseas receiving bank is 28,000 Euros -
not 25,000 Euros  and that she asks the agent to process the first instalment at 28,000
Euros with the remaining amount to be sent as the second instalment.
RBS have record of the phone call referred to above taking place on 14 July 2022, following
an earlier phone call on 11 July 2022 at which time Miss H couldnt be put through to the
appropriate team. And on the telephone call of 14 July, Miss H was told by RBSs agent that
the requested first instalment would be keyed and processed within the next few days.
However, its clear from RBSs own notes that this payment wasnt attempted until 29 July
2022  over two weeks after Miss H instructed it.
The attempted £28,000 Euro payment was rejected by the overseas recipient bank the same
day it was attempted, and I feel its likely that this was because it was it attempted for an
amount which was above the transfer limit the recipient account could accept. And while I
feel that Miss H must bear some responsibility for what happened for providing the 28,000
Euro instruction to RBS, I also feel that RBS should fairly be considered responsible for the
delay in implementing Miss Hs instruction as described above.
Additionally, following the failed payment attempt, RBS dont appear to have acted to resolve
the issue for a further two weeks. And this is despite Miss H contacting them on 21 and 28
July, and on 8, 12, and 17 August, and on all occasions speaking with RBS agents who
couldnt explain to her what had happened to the attempted 28,000 Euro payment or what
was going to happen moving forwards.
On 18 August 2022, RBS note that they became aware that the daily transfer limit for the
overseas recipient bank was 25,000 Euros, and they attempted two transfers over the next
few days for 25,000 Euros and for 20,553 Euros  the remaining balance  respectively.
However, the second of these payments was returned by the overseas recipient bank on 22
August 2022 without explanation, while the status of the first payment remained unknown.
RBSs notes confirm that they chased the overseas recipient bank as to the status of the first
payment and why the second payment had been returned, but that they received no
response. This seems reasonable to me, given that RBS sent the payments in line with the
daily transfer limit of the overseas bank and given that Im satisfied that RBS initially acted
quickly to try to resolve the issue once it was understood that neither instalment had been
received by Miss Hs daughter.
On 24 August 2022, Miss H contacted RBS and asked them to cancel the transaction and to
return the money to her RBS account. RBS didnt initially respond to Miss Hs request, which
led Miss H to chase the matter with them on 30 August 2022, at which time she was told that
because currency exchange rates had moved against her since when she first instructed the
transfer  at which time the money had been converted into Euros  she would likely receive
approximately £1,600 less into her UK account, following the conversation back to sterling.
Miss H initially accepted the currency exchange loss, but after a further conversation with
RBS on 7 September 2022 decided against it and asked RBS to continue to try to process
the transfer. Miss H notes that on the 7 September call, the RBS agent she spoke with was
particularly helpful and suggested that Miss H or her daughter could open a new account
with a third-party UK bank which was affiliated with the overseas recipient bank so that the
money could be transferred from RBS to that new account and then onwards to the
overseas recipient bank.Miss H has confirmed that she acted on this suggestion and RBS note that on 12 September
2022 they were provided by Miss H with details of a new UK account to which to transfer the
money. RBSs notes also indicate that the new UK account was a GBP account, and that
Miss H accepted the currency exchange loss that would result from the Euros being
converted to sterling upon transfer to the new UK account at that time. Following this, RBSs
notes explain that they requested the IBAN from Miss H to enable the transfer to be
completed, and that Miss H provided this information to them on 16 September 2022. And
Miss Hs own testimony confirms this date.
RBS then made a payment to the new UK account on 22 September 2022  almost a week
after receiving the IBAN from Miss H. And given the lengthy delays that had already
occurred here, its unclear why RBS took so long to process this payment.
Additionally, while this payment was successfully received by Miss Hs daughter, RBS only
transferred an amount relating to the second of the two instalments that theyd attempted to
the overseas bank previously  because the status of the first attempted payment still hadnt
been resolved. RBSs notes indicate that theyd chased the status of this first payment with
the overseas bank on 23 and 25 August 2022  approximately a month prior to the
processing of the payment to the new UK bank account  but not since those dates. Its not
clear why this matter wasnt chased by RBS with the overseas bank after 25 August 2022.
It now transpires that the overseas bank had returned the 25,000 Euros to RBS on 30
August 2022 but had done so without including a reference number which would have
allowed RBS to easily identify which of their customers the returned funds belonged to. As
such, the returned money was held in a suspense account by RBS, pending identification of
the specific customer account to which it needed to be returned.
RBS have said that they werent made aware by Miss H that the 25,000 Euro payment
hadnt been successfully received by her daughter when it was attempted. But I dont accept
RBSs position here for several reasons, including that Miss H chased this outstanding
payment with RBS on several occasions and that RBS themselves chased the status of the
payment with the overseas bank as explained above. RBS received no response to this
chase, and certainly no response which would indicate that it had completed. Finally, given
that the smaller, second instalment was returned by the overseas bank, I feel it stands to
reason that the larger, first instalment would most likely also have been unsuccessful.
Miss H has explained that due to family events, she didnt chase this outstanding 25,000
Euros with RBS until 22 November 2022. And because RBS were acting on the
unreasonable assumption that the 25,000 Euros werent still outstanding, as described
above, they didnt investigate the status of that missing money during this time either.
After being informed by Miss H that 25,000 Euros remained outstanding, RBS were able to
locate the missing money and processed a transfer to the new UK account on 28 November
2022 which was received by Miss Hs daughter. And given that I dont feel that it was
reasonable for RBS to have not chased the status of this money sooner, I do feel that they
should reasonably bear some responsibility for the significant delay in Miss Hs requested
transfer being completed.
Given the events described above, its clear that both Miss H and RBS have contributed to
what happened here. And I note that after Miss H first instructed the single payment transfer
in July 2022, she initially gave RBS incorrect information about the daily transfer amount limit
which led to some delays. And I also note that Miss H didnt chase the status of the missing
25,000 Euro payment for approximately two months, between 22 September 2022 and 22
November 2022, albeit for family reasons.I also feel that the lack of communication from the overseas bank has played a role in why
Miss Hs intended transfer didnt go smoothly. And this is not only because the overseas
bank consistently failed to reply to RBSs communication attempts and returned the 25,000
Euros to RBS without a reference number as would reasonably be expected, but also
because when RBS did attempt the two instalments in accordance with the 25,000 Euro
daily transfer limit, those transfers were rejected by the overseas bank without explanation.
As such, I feel that, even if Miss H had provided the correct daily transfer limit amount to
RBS in the first instance, its unlikely that any transfer attempted at that time in accordance
with that limit would have been successful.
But I do feel that there are several instances where RBS have either provided a poor
standard of service to Miss H or unnecessarily delayed matters here. These include that
RBS received instructions from Miss H to send the payment in two instalments on 14 July
2022 but didnt attempt the first instalment until 29 July 2022, and that RBS failed to chase
the status of the missing 25,000 Euros for several months. Additionally, I feel that the lack of
information that Miss H received when calling RBS about the uncompleted transfer
throughout late July and August 2022 did cause Miss H an unnecessary and avoidable
degree of worry and frustration.
I note that RBS have made a payment of £70 compensation to Miss H, as per their
complaint response, in consideration of what happened. But that complaint response was
issued by RBS on 1 September 2022  approximately three months before this matter was
finally resolved by the completion of the second transfer to the new UK bank account  and
as such I dont feel that it does provide fair compensation to Miss H for what happened here.
Because of this, and in consideration of the significant trouble and upset that Miss H has
incurred here, and the general framework which this service uses when considering
compensation amounts for upset and inconvenience  details of which can be found on this
services website  my provisional decision is that Ill be upholding this complaint against
RBS and instructing RBS to pay a further £500 compensation to Miss H.
Finally, I feel that RBS should reasonably have chased the status of the outstanding 25,000
Euros following the lack of response about the matter from the overseas bank in late August
2022. And I feel that if RBS had chased this matter the return of the money by the overseas
bank on 30 August most likely would have been discovered in time for it to have been
transferred at the same time as the successful 22 September 2022 payment to the new UK
bank account.
It follows that I feel that Miss Hs daughter was unfairly denied access to these funds during
that period, and so my provisional instructions will also include that RBS must make a
payment to Miss H equivalent to 8% interest on 25,000 Euros calculated for the 68 days that
the funds werent available to Miss Hs daughter  22 September to 29 November 2022.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Miss H and RBS the opportunity to respond and 
provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to 
a final decision. Miss H responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that she was 
happy to accept it, whereas RBS did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Miss Hs 
favour on the basis explained above. And I therefore confirm that I do uphold this complaint 
in Miss Hs favour on that basis accordingly.Putting things right
RBS must make a payment to Miss H equivalent to 8% interest on 25,000 Euros calculated 
for the 68 days that the funds werent available to Miss Hs daughter  22 September to 29 
November 2022. 
RBS should contact Miss H about this payment. And if the payment is to be made in GBP, 
RBS should use the most beneficial historical currency exchange rate that would have been 
available to Miss H during that 68-day period, if that rate is more beneficial to Miss H that the 
present currency exchange rate. 
RBS must also make a payment of £500 to Miss H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc on 
the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman