DRN-1510510
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1994. Mrs 
K says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1994 Mrs K took out a PPI policy at the same time as taking out a store card. Both were 
done in-store.
The policy provided protection for Mrs K's store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. It also provided life 
cover. The policy provided a benefit of 15% of the monthly outstanding balance and it would 
pay out until Mrs K returned to work or the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. 
It cost no more than £1.00 for every £100 Mrs K owed on the account.
The policy also provided purchase protection. But Mrs K's not complained about this part of 
the cover - just the PPI element - so I won't consider this here.
At the time of the sale Mrs K was employed and, she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full followed by three months' half-pay. She said she had savings and her partner's 
income she could've relied on to make her repayments, and she said she was in good health 
at the time.
AXA's records show the account closed in 1999 and Mrs K paid just over £100 in total for 
the PPI.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mrs K chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs K disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs K's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs K's complaint and my reasons are set out 
below:
Did Mrs K choose to take out PPI?I think AXA made it clear that Mrs K didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs K's store card application. And here I can see there was a 
separate section for PPI, which required Mrs K to tick one of two boxes: 'Yes' to take out 
PPI or 'No' to decline it. Mrs K ticked the 'Yes' box.
By offering two equally prominent options -  and because it didn't say or imply PPI had to be 
taken out - I think AXA made it clear that PPI was optional.
I can see Mrs K says she felt forced into taking it out - she says she was told the card would 
only be agreed if she took out the PPI. But in light of the above and without something else 
to support what Mrs K says happened, I think she chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure.
Did AXA provide Mrs K with advice?
AXA says it didn't provide advice. And I've not seen anything which leads me to think that it 
did. So AXA didn't have to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mrs K. But it did have to give her 
enough clear and timely information about it, so she could make an informed decision about 
whether to go ahead or not.
The information  
The store card application provided an outline of the what the PPI covered - it would protect 
the account in the event of accident, sickness, unemployment and death. But there's nothing 
to indicate that Mrs K was given clear information about the cost, the benefit or the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. So I accept its possible the information AXA 
gave Mrs K about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. 
But as I found above, I think she likely chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she wasn't affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover - so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs K off taking out the cover. 
Conclusion
While AXA might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs K PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time - and because I don't think the policy 
operated fundamentally differently from what she expected - I think she would still have gone 
ahead and taken out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means I dont think Mrs K has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Mrs K what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K has said - including what she's  said about her existing 
means and that there's no evidence that she wasn't put under pressure to take out the 
policy. But these points dont change my decision.
I've thought about Mrs K's sick pay and the savings she said she had. But the policy 
would've paid out in addition to any sick pay entitlement. And because of the benefit of the 
policy, it had the potential to pay off the account balance in full. So if Mrs K had properly and fully understood this, in weighing up the cost and benefit proposition, I think she would've still 
thought it was useful to her in her circumstances and gone ahead anyway.
Mrs K says there's no evidence that she wasn't pressured to take out the PPI. But equally, 
other than what she says there's nothing else to support her assertion. So without something 
else to persuade me that, more likely than not Mrs K was put under undue pressure to take 
out PPI, I can't fairly and reasonably say that she was and uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold Mrs K's complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman