DRN-3638500
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) didnt fairly or reasonably 
deal with their claims under Section 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in 
relation to a holiday product they purchased. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P purchased membership of a holiday club from a third party (the Supplier) in 
September 2019. The purchase price of £18,847.00 was funded by way of a Fixed Sum 
Loan Agreement with Shawbrook, which also consolidated £4,421 of an existing loan with 
another lender. 
Mr and Mrs P, acting through a professional representative (PR), contacted Shawbrook in 
March 2022 to raise claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA and complain about the 
authority of the credit broker and affordability of the loan. The key complaint points are noted 
below:
Section 75 of the CCA: Misrepresentation
Mr and Mrs P say the following facts were misrepresented to them;
the holiday product they acquired was an investment and would increase in value.
their share of the property would increase in value and so would deliver a 
considerable return.
they could sell the holiday product back to the resort or easily sell it at a profit.
they would have access to holiday apartments at any time.
Section 140A of the CCA: Unfair relationship
Mr and Mrs P say the agreement includes a clause which would result in the 
forfeiture of the holiday product in the event a payment wasnt made under the 
agreement. The PR said this clause put Mr and Mrs P in an unfair debtor-credit 
relationship under Section 140A of the CCA.
Unauthorised credit intermediary
The sales representatives of the credit intermediary were self-employed so while the 
credit intermediary was authorised to carry on regulated activities the persons signing 
the agreements were not employed by the regulated company but self-employed. 
Other complaint points
The transaction was illegal as the holiday product was sold as an investment contrary 
to Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010.
The Supplier is in liquidation and so Mr and Mrs P are unable to receive any amounts 
they may be awarded.
Shawbrook issued a final response to Mr and Mrs P in April 2022. It said that the claim was 
based on a membership type that Mr and Mrs P didnt have. In regard to the product funded 
by the Shawbrook loan, Shawbrook said that Mr and Mrs P were provided with sufficient 
information at the point of sale to make a reasoned decision. It noted there was a 14-day 
cooling off period and that Mr and Mrs P signed the Customer Compliance Statement which 
said they had been provided with a full and adequate explanation of the credit agreement. 
Shawbrook also said that Mr and Mrs P werent told they were buying a specific property but 
instead points to enable them to access holidays.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept Shawbrooks final response, and the PR referred their complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They found the following:
The claim under Section 75 of the CCA wasnt turned down unfairly or unreasonably 
given its merits.
There wasnt an unfair debtor-creditor relationship between Mr and Mrs P and 
Shawbrook. 
There wasnt enough evidence to show the lending was unaffordable.
The Supplier was in liquidation but the holiday products were still being honoured 
and so the benefits of Mr and Mrs Ps acquisition were still available to them. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators view. The PR said:
It had provided a training manual that clearly showed the holiday product was sold as 
an investment and that Mr and Mrs P believed this and entered into the purchase 
agreement on this basis.
There was an unfair relationship due to the timeshare agreement including a clause 
stating that failure to make any payment due may result in the right of the timeshare 
company to retain the whole amount paid by the purchaser without any 
compensation. 
Although the credit intermediary was authorised, its representatives were all self-
employed and so the persons that offered the agreements and signed on behalf of 
the company were not employees, but self-employed and not regulated to carry on 
this activity. It provided a copy of a decision by the Upper Tribunal in London 
regarding loans brokered by a different credit intermediary.
Lending without adequate checks is irresponsible lending.
Our investigator dealt with the complaint about the authority of the credit broker when they 
referred the complaint for a decision.
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
Mr and Mrs P have made a number of claims of misrepresentation. Having looked at the 
alleged misrepresentations these primarily relate to the holiday product being sold as an 
investment. I have noted the training manual provided in support of this claim, but this 
relates to a different product to the one Mr and Mrs P acquired so I havent considered this 
further. Instead, I have looked at some of the paperwork from the time of the acquisition. The 
membership agreement states that the acquisition was for the primary purpose of holidays 
and was not for the purpose of a trade or investment. There was no suggestion in the 
paperwork Ive seen that the product would be bought back by the Supplier. Given this, I do 
not find that I can say the product was misrepresented to be an investment product or that it 
would be able to be sold back. 
In regard to the alleged misrepresentation about availability of holidays, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that Mr and Mrs P were told that they would have access to 
holiday accommodation at any time. Instead, the membership agreement set out that if it is 
not possible to trade in points because of circumstances or due to availability of suitable 
properties, these points will continue to be held by Mr and Mrs P. I think this supports the 
fact that the holidays were subject to availability.
Based on the above, and noting the allegations of misrepresentation made, I do not find that 
theres the evidence to say the agreement was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
The PR has referred to the terms and conditions governing what happens in the event of 
non-payment and argue that they created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship because the 
terms themselves breached the law on unfair contract terms. 
But the Supreme Court has made it clear that for the purposes of section 140A of the CCA, 
any regulatory breach must be considered in the round, rather than in a narrow, technical 
way. Section 140A(2) says that a court shall have regard to all matters it thinks relevant 
(including matters relating to the creditor and matters relating to the debtor). While I think 
thats wide enough to include the way the supplier exercises or enforces any terms that are 
or may be unfair, I havent seen sufficient evidence that any terms in this case were 
exercised or enforced in a way that was unfair to Mr and Mrs P.
Other points raised 
The other points raised were that the holiday product was sold as an investment. However, 
based on the comments above I do not find this was the case. The PR also raised concerns 
about the Supplier being in liquidation. While I note the point raised, as the services are 
continuing to be provided, I do not find that this constitutes an actionable breach of contract 
in regard to Section 75 of the CCA. Therefore, I do not require Shawbrook to do anything 
further in regard to these issues.
Irresponsible lendingThe PR has said that not carrying out adequate checks means the lending was 
irresponsible. I do not have information about the checks that took place before the loan was 
provided. But for me to require Shawbrook to take any further action in regard to this part of 
the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that adequate checks would have shown the 
lending to have been unaffordable and I havent seen enough evidence of this. 
Authorisation of the credit broker
The loan agreement records the credit intermediary and this services records show that the 
company identified does have the required authorisation and did at the time the loan was 
provided.
I note the reference made to the Upper Tribunal decision, but I do not find that this is 
relevant in this case as the decision provided is in relation to another lender and use of an 
unauthorised credit broker. The credit intermediary for Mr and Mrs Ps agreement had the 
required authorisation in place. 
Conclusion
While I note the concerns raised by and on behalf of Mr and Mrs P, I do not find in this case 
that the evidence supports the complaint being upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman