DRN-4323763
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Revolut Ltd did not refund a payment of £15,000 she lost to a scam. 
What happened
Mrs C met a man online who Ill call X. They began to talk and soon moved off the dating 
website and onto private messaging between each other. Their relationship grew and 
became more serious, and they spoke regularly on the phone. Eventually, X began asking 
for money from Mrs C and she was initially wary and asked for a copy of his passport, which 
he provided. Upon receiving this, she felt more confident and began sending money to X. On 
27 October 2022 she sent him £15,000 from her Revolut account. X continued to ask for 
money and said it was all related to tax issues he had for a project. 
Eventually, Mrs Cs daughter became aware that X was asking her for money and tried to 
explain that X was a scammer. Mrs C initially did not accept this, and it was only when she 
drove to Bristol with her daughter to the address provided by X and found it vacant that she 
accepted that she had been the victim of a scam. Mrs C raised a fraud claim with Revolut in 
March 2023 and they issued a final response letter. In this, they explained that they did flag 
the payment for further questions and Mrs C confirmed it was for garden renovations. After 
going through scam warnings and security questions Mrs C approved the payment and it 
was sent.
Mrs C referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They 
explained that the payment was not covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) code, which provides additional protection for victims of these kind of scams. They 
did agree that the payment of £15,000 needed further questions as Mrs C had selected 
foreign travel as the reason for opening the account, meaning a large payment shortly 
afterwards for garden renovations didnt align. However, they did not think that further 
questions would have revealed the scam as Mrs C had been deep under the spell of X and 
had not told friends or family about giving him money. And even when her daughter 
confronted her about it, the spell was not broken until she drove many hours to the fake 
address. 
Mrs Cs representatives did not agree with the findings. They said she would not have had 
answers to Revoluts questions had they probed further and felt Mrs Cs vulnerabilities, such 
as her medical issues and recent divorce, had not been taken into consideration. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs C has been the victim of a particularly cruel scam, and that the intention 
was for X to take her money. As explained previously, this transaction does not fall under the 
CRM code, as Revolut has not signed up to this voluntary code. However, Revolut still has a 
basic duty of care to its customers to protect them from financial harm. 
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mrs C authorised the payment of £15,000 as she believed she 
was sending it to someone she could trust.  So, while I recognise that Mrs C didnt intend the 
money to be lost as part of a scam, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged to 
follow Mrs Cs instruction and process the payment. Because of this, Mrs C is not 
automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough 
to try to keep Mrs Cs account safe.
Ive looked over the statements for the account and can see it had not been open for very 
long prior to the transaction in question. There were some smaller transactions prior to the 
£15,000 being sent, however looking at the communications between Mrs C and X, it 
appears these also form part of the scam. Some of these were returned by X later on, 
however Mrs C has not raised these as part of her complaint with either Revolut or our 
service, so I have only considered the £15,000 as part of this decision. 
On balance, I do think the £15,000 was unusual when compared to the previous activity on 
the account and the value was significant enough to have warranted further intervention. I 
can see that this happened and Revolut asked Mrs C what the payment was for. She initially 
selected goods and services and then went through to chat with an advisor on the app. 
When Mrs C was asked what the payment was for, she said garden renovations, which did 
not align with the reason given for the account opening just a few weeks prior. Considering 
this, I agree that additional probing questions should have been asked. 
Ive gone on to consider whether or not additional questions would have revealed the scam. 
Ive reviewed all of the communications between Mrs C and X and can see they had been 
talking outside of the dating website for a month when Mrs C sent him the £15,000. 
However, that was not the first time she had sent him money, and a third-party bank she 
held accounts with had frozen her account on more than one occasion due to suspected 
fraud in relation to these payments. And she had given cover stories to other banks for other 
payments, such as purchasing a car. 
In addition, she had concealed her actions from friends and family, including visits to the 
bank when she was sending X money. Even after making the payment of £15,000, it took 
almost another month and Mrs Cs daughter finding out she was attempting to send further 
funds to reveal the scam. And as explained previously, even then Mrs C had to make the 
journey to the address given to her by X to break the spell.
Considering all of this, I think it was clear that Mrs C was deeply under Xs spell and was 
going to lengths to conceal that she was sending money to him. So, I think its likely she 
would have been able to answer any of Revoluts additional questions effectively to continue 
with the payment. And I dont think any targeted scam warning would have broken the spell 
for Mrs C at that time. I appreciate Mrs Cs representatives have said that Revolut should have taken into account 
her vulnerabilities as she has medical issues that make her impulsive, and she separated 
from her husband the year before. Ive considered if Revolut should reasonably have been 
aware of these issues, but I cant see these were mentioned to them or that there was a 
reasonable time in which these could have been discovered by them prior to the transaction 
occurring. So, I dont think they could fairly be expected to take these into consideration 
when processing the payment or investigating the fraud. 
Revolut has not provided evidence showing that they attempted to recover the funds. 
However, Mrs C did not make them aware of the fraudulent transaction until around five 
months after the transaction was processed. Typically, a scammer will remove funds from 
the beneficiary bank account as soon as possible. So, I think it is unlikely any funds would 
have remained at that point. 
Having carefully considered everything available to me, while I think Revolut should have 
asked more probing questions, I think its unlikely these would have broken the spell and 
revealed the scam. And as Revolut was unaware of Mrs Cs vulnerabilities, I dont think they 
could reasonably have taken them into consideration when processing the payment or 
investigating the fraud. And I think it is unlikely they could have recovered any funds at the 
point Mrs C made them aware of the fraudulent transaction.  
My final decision
I do not direct Revolut Ltd to take any further action to remedy Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman