DRN-3709414
The complaint
Miss R complains about her insurer, Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) 
declining a claim for damage to two sofas under her accidental damage insurance policy.
References to Acasta include their agents who administer the warranty and handle claims.
What happened
Miss R bought two sofas in 2018 and took out an accidental damage insurance policy. The 
policy was for five years and provided cover for damage caused by accidental staining and 
accidental damage. In January 2022 Miss R was walking through her lounge while carrying 
some glue. She tripped on a childs toy and fell, causing her to spill the glue on both sofas. 
She contacted Acasta for assistance. They sent her a claim form to complete and then a 
cleaning product, which they said Miss R should use to try and remove the stains. But the 
product didnt work, so Miss R contacted Acasta again.
Acasta sent a technician to inspect the sofas. The technicians report stated the staining was 
in several different places on the sofas and concluded the staining had occurred (or been 
accumulated) over time and not from a specific, accidental event (the incident Miss R told 
them about). Based on this, Acasta rejected the claim because the damage had happened 
over time, which wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Miss R challenged the decline of her claim, maintaining the staining had occurred in the 
incident as she described. Acasta asked her to clarify how the glue was spilled on both 
sofas. They also asked her to confirm the type of glue and size of the container it came in. 
Miss R said it was a small tube of superglue. Acasta considered what Miss R had told them, 
but maintained the decline of her claim, saying the [small] size of the tube meant it wouldnt 
have caused the staining to both sofas. 
Unhappy at the decline of her claim, Miss R complained to Acasta. She said the damage 
had been caused when she tripped and fell. But Acasta didnt uphold her complaint. In their 
final response they referred to the terms and conditions of the policy that said a product 
wasnt covered for the gradual accumulation of stains or by accumulated multiple stains. 
Acasta said the staining wasnt the result of sudden, unexpected contact. Acasta also 
referred to the size of the superglue tube and what they thought would be the pattern of the 
stain that would result if the tube was spilled, concluding the staining to the sofas observed 
by the technician wasnt just a result of the incident with the superglue.
Miss R then complained to this service, saying Acasta had unfairly declined her claim.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding the exclusion Acasta relied on to decline 
the claim hadnt been shown to be relevant in the circumstances of the case, nor that theyd 
evidenced the exclusion applied. The onus was on Acasta to show the exclusion applied, 
which they hadnt done. Nor had their technician provided any evidence or reasoning to 
support their conclusion the staining was the result of gradual accumulation. The investigator 
thought Acasta should reconsider the claim.
Acasta disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said the exclusion did apply and the report from their technician supported 
their view. The technicians professional opinion was the damage wasnt the result of a 
sudden and unforeseen event, but due to a Local Conditions build-up. That view was also 
supported by the damage being on both sofas and in multiple areas (so would have been the 
result of a build-up over time). They also referred to their final response where it set out that 
the type of glue, its coverage and pattern as evidence the damage wasnt the result of a 
sudden, unforeseen event.
In my findings I agreed with Acastas view, concluding the staining affected both sofas and in 
different places. Considering the size of the tube of superglue Miss R said she was carrying 
at the time of the incident, I thought (on the balance of probabilities) it wouldnt have caused 
the staining in the incident. So, the damage wasnt consistent with a single incident or 
accident. As such, I concluded it was reasonable for Acasta to rely on the exclusion theyd 
used to decline the claim.
Because I reached a different conclusion to that of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether Acasta has acted fairly towards Miss R. 
The central issue in Miss Rs complaint is that Acasta havent acted fairly in declining her 
claim for staining to her sofas from the spilling of glue when she tripped and fell. Miss R 
maintains the staining happened in the incident shes described, and she contacted Acasta 
as soon as it happened. Acasta say, based on Miss Rs description of the circumstances, 
including details of the tube of glue she was carrying (and their technicians report), the 
staining couldnt have happened to both sofas in the incident. Rather, they think the staining 
is consistent with it happening over time (not as the result of a one-off incident).
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance I agree with Acasta. Looking at the 
technicians report as well as the photographs it includes of the staining, its clear it affects 
both sofas and in different places. Ive also considered what Acasta have said about the size 
of the tube of superglue Miss R says she was carrying at the time. Acasta say the small size 
of the tube (and its design) mean it wouldnt have caused the observed staining in different 
places on both sofas. Ive thought about this carefully, and Im persuaded (on the balance of 
probabilities) this is a reasonable conclusion. So, I agree with what Acasta have said, that 
the damage isnt consistent with a single incident or accident. 
Ive then looked at terms and conditions of the policy. In their final response, Acasta refer to 
the definition of accidental staining as:
The sudden and unforeseen contact between the product(s) and a substance 
resulting in a stain the product(s) not otherwise excluded under this policy.
Acasta also refer to a reference in Section 4 - What is covered that states:
Please note that this policy provides cover for specific accidental events and staining 
and is not a general cleaning or maintenance contract. As such, cover is not provided 
for staining or damage, accidental or otherwise, which has occurred or accumulated 
over a period of time.
Under Section 5  What is not covered there are the following items:7 The gradual accumulation of stain or dye transfer or by accumulated multiple 
stains or by unidentifiable stain(s)
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, that the 
onus is on them to show that it applies. Looking at what happened in this case, Acasta 
initially provided a cleaning product to Miss R with a view to seeing whether it could remove 
the staining. When that didnt work, they sent a technician to inspect the sofas and report on 
what they thought was likely to be the cause of the staining. I think this was a reasonable 
approach to take. And when the report concluded the staining wasnt consistent with a one-
off spillage of glue (affecting different places of both sofas) I think it was reasonable to rely 
on it to decline the claim. 
However, when Miss R challenged the decline, Acasta asked her to clarify the 
circumstances of what happened, including the type of glue and the size of the container, 
with a view to re-assessing their decision. I think thats reasonable. Acastas contact notes 
indicate they considered what Miss R told them, in particular the small size of the tube of 
superglue (and its design). I also think thats reasonable (and that had the size of container 
been different  larger  that would have been consistent with the observed staining). 
Taking these points together, Ive concluded Acasta acted reasonably in line with the policy 
terms and conditions in declining Miss Rs claim. I also think Acasta have acted reasonably 
in applying the exclusion, given the sequence of events and their engagement with Miss R to 
clarify what happened, and then to consider it against the policy terms and conditions.
While I recognise Miss Rs point about not wanting anyone to visit during lockdown, I dont 
think this would have precluded Miss R making a claim for damage under a single incident 
when it occurred. That would also be consistent with the second point made by Miss R, that 
he tried to contact Acasta on the number hed used previously but was unable to do so.
Taking all these points together, I dont think Acasta have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Miss Rs claim.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Miss Rs complaint.
  
Miss R responded to say she wasnt happy with the outcome set out in the provisional 
decision. She sent photographs of the sofas shed previously sent to Acasta in support of her 
claim, highlighting the affected areas from the incident. She also said the sofas would have 
had other marks for which she wasnt claiming. She also provided details of the glue and its 
packaging that she was carrying at the time of the incident.
Acasta responded to say they had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Acasta have acted fairly towards Miss R.
Ive looked very carefully at the photographs provided by Miss R, including the highlighted 
areas she said were affected in the incident. However, the areas highlighted are several 
across different areas of the sofas (including the seat covers and seat backs). Given this, I 
havent changed my view that the spillages arent consistent with a one-off incident, given their incidence across a relatively large area and on both sofas. Particularly given the small 
size of the container of the superglue. 
The details of the glue and its packaging provided by Miss R are consistent with those Id 
previously seen when considering my provisional decision, so they dont change my 
provisional view. Thats because it was based on the small size of the tube (and its design), 
indicating it wouldnt have caused the observed staining in different places on both sofas.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Rs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman