DRN-3160951
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1988. Mrs and Mr N say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mrs and Mr N took out a mortgage with YBS in or around 1983. The PPI was sold some 
years later in 1988 when they took out a further advance to that mortgage. 
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs and Mr 
Ns circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs and Mr Ns representative disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the 
same complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ns. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs and 
Mr Ns complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mrs and Mr N during a face to face meeting. I cant 
know what was said at that meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions of the cover. And 
Ive also looked at what Mrs and Mr N remember about it. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether YBS made it clear to Mrs and Mr N that the PPI 
was optional, and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. I know that Mrs and Mr 
N said the cover was presented as part of a package alongside their mortgage and they 
wouldnt have had any interest in the cover if YBS hadnt presented it in that way. 
However, I cant reasonably say that YBS misrepresented the cover as being part of the 
further advance. I say this because I can see a separate application form was completed for 
the PPI. I think Mrs and Mr N would have queried why they had to make a separate 
application for PPI if it was all part of their borrowing. In any event, it looks as though they 
applied for the further advance in January 1988. The PPI application form is not entirely 
legible, but it appears that it was completed in February 1988 - so not at the first 
appointment when the initial application for the further advance was made. That means I 
cant say the PPI was presented as part of the borrowing if it wasnt sold at the same time.  
With all of this in mind, it seems to me most likely that YBS made it clear to Mrs and Mr N 
that they didnt have to take this policy out if they didnt want it. 
The parties agree that YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs and Mr N. So it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did have to give Mrs and Mr N 
enough clear and timely information so they could decide if it was a good fit for their needs. 
I accept its possible the information YBS gave Mrs and Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I can 
see that if theyd had to make a claim on the cover, 50% of Mrs and Mr Ns repayments 
would have been covered if either of them was off sick or if they lost their jobs for up to 12 
months for each claim. If they were off sick or lost their jobs at the same time, all of their 
repayments would have been covered for up to 12 months for each claim. 
Looking at Mrs and Mr Ns circumstances at the time, I think the PPI would have lasted 
longer than the sick pay theyd have had from their employers. I appreciate Mr N told us 
about a pension he was receiving at the same time as his earnings. But it looks as though 
that pension was around 40-50% of his monthly earnings. So with PPI, he could have used 
that pension for his other essential expenditure at what could have been a difficult time if he 
was out of work. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr N told us that Mr N had a death in service benefit from his employer. 
But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of Mr Ns death  not if he was off 
sick from work or if he was made redundant. Mrs and Mr N also said the PPI was not of use 
to them because Mr N would have turned 65 whilst the policy was still running. But this was 
a monthly premium policy. So the cover could have been cancelled when Mr N became 65 
and he would have still benefited from the policy for 18 years. 
Mrs and Mr N told us that Mr N had broken a bone in or around November 1988, which was 
around a month before the cover was sold. They also said that hed taken around seven 
months off work because of that injury. I asked our adjudicator to clarify whether Mr N was 
off sick when he and Mrs N applied for the further advance. There was no response to those 
requests for further information. I note that when completing the PPI application form Mrs 
and Mr N declared they were in good health.  That means I think its unlikely Mrs and Mr N 
applied for this further advance for home improvements whilst Mr N was recovering from a 
serious injury. On that basis, I dont think further information about the exclusions in respect 
of medical conditions would have put Mrs and Mr N off buying the cover. 
Those representing Mrs and Mr N made several submissions about the cover restricting 
claims for back and mental health conditions. But having considered the terms and conditions at length, I am satisfied there were no such restrictions on claims for either of 
those medical issues. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mrs or Mr Ns employment circumstances that would 
have stopped them from being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. I 
appreciate it was initially argued that Mr N may not have been eligible for the cover because 
he had been in his job for only three months. However, the evidence Ive seen suggests Mr 
N had been with his employer for almost three years when the PPI was sold. And in any 
event, there was no such restriction on eligibility in the policy sold to Mrs and Mr N. 
With all of these things in mind, I cant say the cover was fundamentally wrong for Mrs and 
Mr N. Ive found that they chose to take it out, so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And from what Ive seen, I cant say it was too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought 
they were buying from the information they were most likely given. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. I must stress that the borrowing was secured on their home, which could 
have been at risk if Mrs and Mr N fell behind with their repayments. So I can see how the 
PPI could have been helpful if either Mrs or Mr N wasnt working.  Because of this I dont 
think Mrs and Mr N would have declined the cover had YBS given them more or better 
information about it. 
Mrs and Mr Ns representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Ns representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ns individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Ns particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means YBS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ns complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman