DRN-3703819
The complaint
Mr P complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt fully settled a medical expenses claim he
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P was on holiday abroad in a country Ill call K. He was due to fly back to the UK on 17
March 2020. However, on 10 March 2020, Mr P began to feel unwell and so sought medical
treatment from a local hospital doctor Ill refer to as Dr R. Dr R recommended that Mr P
should undergo blood tests and a CT scan to investigate the cause of his symptoms. Mr P
also had to move accommodation at this point and so rented a room from a friend who lived
locally. The CT scan was carried out on 12 March 2020.
Dr R scheduled a follow-up appointment with Mr P for 18 March 2020  the day after Mr P
was due to fly back to the UK. So Mr P rebooked his return flight for 24 April 2020. The
appointment went ahead on 18 March 2020 and Dr R diagnosed Mr P with diverticulitis. He
prescribed Mr P antibiotics to treat the condition and he also recommended that Mr P should
undergo further tests to rule out malignant illness.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, flights from K were suspended. So Mr P wasnt able to
return home as planned. Instead, he remained in K until September 2020, when he was able
to fly back to the UK. He made a claim on his travel insurance policy for his medical
expenses and the associated costs hed incurred.
AXA looked into Mr Ps claim and appointed an agent to investigate the claim in K. It had
some concerns about the claim and Mr Ps version of events. Ultimately, it agreed to settle
the medical expenses Mr P had incurred up until 17 March 2020  the date he had originally
booked to return to the UK. It didnt think there was enough evidence to show that itd been
medically necessary for Mr P to remain in K beyond that date.
Mr P was unhappy with AXAs settlement and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She noted that Mr P hadnt
contacted AXAs medical assistance team in line with the policy terms. And she didnt think
Mr P had demonstrated it was medically necessary to remain in K post-17 March 2020.
However, she didnt think AXA had handled the claim as well as it couldve done. AXA had
paid Mr P £100 compensation to reflect customer service failings and the investigator
concluded this was a fair amount.
Mr P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I considered all of the available evidence, including an email from Dr R dated 21 January
2021. This stated that Dr R and Mr P had spoken on 30 March 2020 and that subsequently,
Mr P had been fit to travel. I also noted that AXAs agent had confirmed with Dr R that Mr P
hadnt been seen for the scan and blood test follow-up until 18 March 2020  at which point
it appeared that Dr R had prescribed Mr P antibiotics to treat diverticulitis. I noted that AXAs
agent had also broadly corroborated that Mr P was staying where he said hed been at the
time. So I thought the evidence indicated that Mr P likely hadnt been told he was fit to travel
until 30 March 2020. I asked AXA what its medical assistance team wouldve advised had
Mr P got in touch and whether it wouldve considered hed been fit to fly on 17 March 2020.
And I let it know that I felt it might be reasonable to reconsider Mr Ps medical expenses
claim on the basis that I considered the evidence showed he hadnt been fit to fly until 30
March 2020.
AXA told me that its assistance team hadnt been contacted, but that its clinical team
wouldve taken the advice of the treating doctor. It maintained that there was no evidence
that Mr P hadnt been fit to travel after 17 March 2020. It said it couldnt ask the clinical team
for a retrospective opinion on Mr Ps condition, as this is a common condition, which many
people live with. It said too that Mr Ps failure to contact the assistance team had greatly
impacted on the potential claim costs, as it hadnt been given the chance to negotiate
treatment or repatriation costs.
Additionally, AXA maintained that Mr P had misrepresented the claim, based on information
hed provided about the accommodation hed stayed in. Mr P had made two payments to his
friend before hed become unwell and AXA queried why hed have arranged accommodation
he hadnt known hed need. It had concerns too that Mr P had paid money to his friend in
relation to a business transaction rather than accommodation.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I intended to partly uphold Mr Ps complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Ps policy and the available evidence, to decide whether AXA treated Mr P fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy, as these form the basis of his
contract with AXA. Section 2  Medical emergency and repatriation expenses says that AXA
provides cover for the following:
We will pay you up to the limit in your schedule for the items shown below which are
necessarily incurred during a trip as a result of you suffering unforeseen injury due to an
accident, illness, disease and/or compulsory quarantine.
 Emergency medical, surgical, hospital, ambulance and medical fees and charges
incurred outside of your home area.
 Emergency dental treatment for the immediate relief of pain only incurred outside of
your home area.
 An allowance for every complete 24 hour period you are in hospital or confined to
your accommodation on the advice of a medical practitioner and contribution towards
meal expenses for a nominated person who is staying or travelling with you (the
excess does not apply to this benefit).
 Costs of telephone calls to and from the Emergency Medical Assistance Service
notifying and dealing with the problem.
 The cost of taxi fares for your travel to or from hospital relating to your admission,
discharge or attendance for outpatient treatment or appointments and/or for
collection of medication prescribed for you.
 If you die outside your home area the cost of funeral expenses abroad plus the cost
of returning your ashes or your body to your home. If you die on a trip within your
home area the reasonable additional cost of returning your ashes or body to your
home.
 Additional transport and/or accommodation expenses incurred, up to the standard of
your original booking, if it is medically necessary for you to stay beyond your
scheduled return date. This includes, with the prior authorisation of the EmergencyMedical Assistance Service, reasonable additional transport and/
or accommodation expenses for a travelling companion, friend or close relative to
stay with you or travel to you from the UK or escort you home. Also, additional travel
expenses to return you to your home or a suitable hospital nearby if you cannot use
the return ticket.
 With the prior authorisation of the Emergency Medical Assistance Service, the
additional costs incurred in the use of air transport or other suitable means, including
qualified attendants, to repatriate you to your home if it is medically necessary. These
expenses will be for the identical class of travel used on the outward journey unless
the Emergency Medical Assistance Service agrees otherwise. If the Emergency
Medical Assistance Service confirms an alternative method of travel is required this
will only apply for the ill or injured insured person.
Whats clear then is that AXA does provide cover for a policyholders emergency medical
and hospital fees.
This section of the policy also sets out a list of specific things which AXA doesnt cover. This
list includes:
Any claim where you have been unable to evidence your loss.
Any claims arising directly or indirectly from:
 the cost of treatment or surgery, including exploratory tests, which are not related to
the injury due to an accident or illness which necessitated your admittance to
hospital;
 any expenses which are not usual, reasonable or customary to treat your injury due
to an accident, illness or disease;
 any form of treatment or surgery which, in the opinion of the Emergency Medical
Assistance Service or us (based on information provided by the medical practitioner
in attendance), can be delayed reasonably until your return to your home area;
In my experience, many travel insurance policies exclude medical expenses claims where a
policyholder hasnt contacted the insurers medical assistance team ahead of incurring costs.
But in this case, there is no exclusion under this section for any emergency medical costs
which havent been authorised by AXAs medical assistance team, or indeed for additional
accommodation costs for a policyholder themselves. So I cant fairly find that any failure by
Mr P to notify AXAs assistance team about the claim while he was actively unwell and
receiving medical treatment means that his claim is accordingly specifically excluded by the
policy terms.
AXA accepts that prior to 17 March 2020, Mr P was unwell and sought medical assistance
from Dr R. Its settled the medical expenses he incurred up until that date. However, it
doesnt agree that Mr P has shown it was medically necessary for him to remain in K after
his original planned date of return. Ive considered this point very carefully, as the policy
makes it clear that a policyholder needs to evidence their loss.
Theres no dispute that Mr P saw Dr R on 10 March 2020 and was referred for tests. AXAs
agent corroborated this information both with Dr R and with the relevant hospital. The
agents report also supports Mr Ps testimony that he wasnt able to obtain a follow-up
appointment with Dr R to discuss the test results until 18 March 2020. Dr R says this was
due to his existing patient schedule and indeed, the agents report states that the results
werent passed on to Dr R until 18 March 2020.
Dr R provided a prescription on 18 March 2020 for the antibiotics he prescribed to treat Mr
Ps condition. The medication receipts are dated the same day. Dr Rs letter of November2020 states that Mr P had signs of acute diverticulitis and that the CT scan he underwent
showed multiple diverticulitis. So the medical evidence suggests that Dr R prescribed
antibiotics to treat acute diverticulitis.
I acknowledge that this evidence doesnt explicitly state that Mr P wasnt fit to fly on 17
March 2020. However, I think its strongly suggestive that Mr P was suffering from an acute
condition which required antibiotic treatment and which he wasnt able to obtain until after
he'd been due to return to the UK. I can also see that the prescriptions were fulfilled at a
pharmacy on the date they were given.
And Ive placed significant weight on Dr Rs email of 21 January 2021 which says:
According to my record, we spoke on 30/03/2020.
Subsequently, you were advised fit to travel.
In my view then, Dr Rs evidence indicates that he had a follow-up with Mr P on 30 March
2020  around 12 days after the antibiotics had been prescribed and it was at this point that
Dr R felt Mr P had been fit to travel. As such, it seems more likely than not that prior to 30
March 2020, Dr R wouldve considered Mr P unfit to travel and that therefore, hed have
concluded it was medically necessary for Mr P to remain in K after 17 March 2020.
AXA has stated that its medical assistance team wouldve been guided by the treating
clinician had Mr P contacted it. This is in line with the policy terms, Given Dr R appears to
have concluded that Mr P wasnt fit to travel until 30 March 2020, it seems to me most likely
that AXAs medical assistance team wouldve reached the same view. And AXA has
provided no compelling evidence here to show that its been prejudiced as a result of Mr Ps
failure to contact its assistance team. Accordingly then, I think its likely it wouldve continued
to consider Mr Ps medical expenses up until this particular point.
I do appreciate AXA has some concerns about the accommodation costs in particular that
Mr P has presented. To be clear though, any direction I make here is likely to be to
reconsider Mr Ps claim on the basis that he wasnt fit to fly until 30 March 2020 and to
assess what, if any, assistance Mr P mightve been covered for to return to the UK. Im not
intending to direct AXA to pay Mr Ps claim  its entitled to reassess the costs hes claimed
for, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and subject to any additional
evidence AXA might require. And given AXAs already settled some of the claim, it doesnt
appear to have concluded that the whole claim falls outside of cover due to any potential
misrepresentation.
Overall then, I currently dont think that AXA has assessed Mr Ps claim fairly. I currently find
that Mr P has provided enough medical evidence to show that he wasnt fit to fly until 30
March 2020. So I consider that AXA should reassess his claim in line with the policy terms
and conditions, taking into account this particular evidence.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence they wanted me to take into 
account.
AXA accepted my provisional findings.
Mr P didnt accept my provisional decision and Ive summarised his response:
Hed contacted AXA to make a claim on 10 March 2020. It had said it would get back 
to him within two working days. He wasnt contacted and therefore, he didnt realise 
he had to contact the medical assistance team;
He provided explanations for the payments which had been made to his friend in 
advance of the claim being made;His airline had had to rebook his flight for 24 April 2020, on the understanding that if 
there was earlier availability, he might have been able to rebook. But due to Covid-
19, all international flights had been cancelled until August 2020;
He believed he had been honest and upfront about the claim and had tried to be 
reasonable in the costs he had incurred. He queried why my proposed direction was 
only to reconsider his claim until 30 March 2020, given he couldnt return to the UK 
earlier;
This claim has been ongoing for over two years and has cost Mr P and his family 
high interest costs and a great deal of time;
AXA had made assumptions that this claim was fraudulent. This had caused Mr P a 
great deal of upset and had damaged his reputation. So he felt the claim should now 
be settled, together with an award for compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and Ill explain 
why.
First, I thank Mr P for the evidence hes provided which shows he made an online claim on 
10 March 2020. I appreciate he wasnt directed to AXAs assistance line at this point. But as 
I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think the policy terms required Mr P to contact 
medical assistance before incurring his particular medical costs. And I didnt think AXA had 
shown its position had been prejudiced in any way by any failure to contact medical 
assistance in any event. So I didnt think it was fair for AXA to decline to cover any post-17 
March 2020 expenses for this reason. 
Mr P feels strongly that AXAs decision to appoint an agent to investigate the claim and its 
subsequent claims correspondence caused him worry, frustration and damage to his 
reputation. I dont doubt that the situation has been worrying for him. But its a policyholders 
responsibility to show that they have a valid claim on their policy. Often, insurers will 
investigate claims and obtain evidence on a policyholders behalf in order to decide whether 
a claim is covered. Generally, I think an insurers entitled to be satisfied that a claims 
covered before it agrees to accept it. And given that AXA did have some concerns about the 
claim and the timeline of events, I think that it was reasonably entitled to carry out some 
further investigations into the circumstances of Mr Ps claim. 
Id add too that AXA said it didnt have sight of Dr Rs email of 21 January 2021 until we sent 
it a copy of the email on 1 June 2022. In my view, this was the key piece of evidence which 
demonstrated that Mr P likely hadnt been fit to fly before 30 March 2020. As it seems AXA 
didnt have the opportunity to consider this evidence ahead of investigating the claim and 
making its original settlement offer, I dont think it would be fair for me to direct it to pay 
compensation for any failure to conclude Mr P hadnt been fit to fly after 17 March 2020.
AXA has previously paid Mr P £100 compensation for its handling of the claim. I think this 
was a fair award in the round and so I dont think that AXA needs to pay anything more here.
As I explained in my provisional decision and to be clear, Im not directing AXA to settle Mr 
Ps claim. Neither am I making any finding as to what, if any, additional settlement should be 
paid. That will be for AXA to decide following its reassessment of Mr Ps claim, in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. My finding is that Mr P has shown, on balance, that he 
wasnt fit to fly until 30 March 2020. Therefore, I remain satisfied that the fair outcome to this 
complaint is for AXA to reconsider Mr Ps claim for his medical expenses and additional accommodation costs, on the basis that he wasnt fit to fly until 30 March 2020, in line with 
the remaining policy terms and conditions and subject to any additional evidence it may 
require from Mr P in support of his claim. This means that Mr P may need to provide AXA 
with any additional information it might ask for in order for it to fully reconsider his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold this complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to reconsider Mr Ps claim for his medical expenses
and additional accommodation costs, on the basis that he wasnt fit to fly until 30 March
2020, in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions and subject to any additional
evidence it may require.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman