DRN-1639308
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that MYJAR Limited gave him a loan that he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
Mr H took out one instalment loan for £150 with MYJAR on 12 May 2018. 
The adjudicator didn't recommend that Mr H's complaint be upheld. He thought that 
MYJAR carried out adequate checks before agreeing to lend. And based on the information 
MYJAR held about Mr H, the adjudicator thought that it was reasonable to lend.
Mr H is unhappy with the adjudicators' recommendation. He says that MYJAR should have 
carried out better checks than it did. And that if MYJAR had asked to see bank statements it 
would have seen that he couldn't repay the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. MYJAR needed to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it 
should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think that its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer Credit Source Book defines sustainable as 
being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
MYJAR has given us evidence that it asked Mr H to estimate how much he was spending 
each month on housing, credit and other expenses. MYJAR also carried out credit checks 
before agreeing the loan. 
This was Mr H's first and only loan from MYJAR and the maximum monthly repayment of 
£77.99 represented a fairly modest proportion of his declared monthly income of £1,900. Mr 
H said he had expenses of £500 so the loan looked easily affordable on these figures. And 
MYJAR's credit checks didn't reveal anything of concern. So I'm satisfied that MYJAR's 
checks were proportionate.
I consider it was reasonable of MYJAR to have a degree of confidence that Mr H had given it 
accurate financial information this early on in the lending relationship. I wouldn't have 
expected MYJAR to go as far as trying to independently verify the financial information that 
Mr H gave by asking to see bank statements for example. This is because this was Mr Hs 
first loan and it was for a relatively small amount. 
I dont doubt that Mr H's financial situation was worse than he disclosed to MYJAR. I can see 
that shortly after this he entered into an IVA. But the credit check didnt reveal this level of 
difficulty and I don't think that it was reasonable to ask MYJAR to do any more checking than 
it did. I'm sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr H but I cant ask MYJAR to refund 
any money or amend his credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
31 August 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman