DRN-1307828
The complaint
Mr M complains about a failed balance transfer. He thinks Clydesdale Bank Plc shouldve 
done more to make him aware of the restrictions to their credit card accounts. 
Background
In October 2019, Mr M applied for a credit card with Clydesdale Bank. He submitted his 
application online which included the details of a balance to be transferred from another 
credit card. The application was approved. 
Shortly after, Mr M contacted Clydesdale Bank. He was told that whilst his application for the 
account was successful, the balance transfer request had been declined. This was on the 
basis that his other credit card was with a US bank. And Clydesdale Bank dont allow 
transfers to banks outside of the UK.  
Mr M raised a complaint. He was unhappy that:
1. He wasnt told about these restrictions at the point of making his application;
2. Clydesdale Bank didnt contact him to let him know the transfer had been declined. It 
was only when he called in that he was told what had happened and why; 
3. When he called again, he was on hold for some time. And when he did get through to 
an advisor, the call disconnected, and no one called him back.
 
Clydesdale Bank say its terms and conditions were set out during the online application 
process, which Mr M wouldve had to read and accept before applying. In addition, these 
terms are also on its website. But it upheld the complaint it part, as it acknowledged thered 
been some failings in its customer service. 
To put things right, Clydesdale Bank has paid £75 compensation. It has also offered to do a 
money transfer to the other credit card. But if Mr M isnt happy with this, it has offered to 
close the account and remove the footprint left on his credit file. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the offers made. He says hes been incurring interest on his other 
credit card which couldve been avoided if hed known about Clydesdale Banks limitations, 
as he wouldve opened an account elsewhere. He says hell have to wait 90 days for the 
credit file footprint to be removed before he can apply for another credit card account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that Clydesdale Bank had 
done anything wrong in terms of the application itself. He said the terms and conditions were 
available and Mr M had accepted them when he made his application. He also thought the 
offer to remove the footprint from Mr Ms credit file was a good way to resolve things. 
In terms of the customer service aspects to the complaint, the investigator thought £75 
compensation was fair, taking into account the trouble and upset caused. 
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusions as our investigator for substantially the same reasons. 
Mr M applied for this credit card account online. Therefore he did so without advice or 
guidance from Clydesdale Bank and had to rely upon the information available to him on the 
website. 
As part of the application process, Mr M was required to read and accept the account terms 
and conditions. Under the heading how can I use the card and are there any restrictions, it 
says you cannot transfer a balance to this account from another card we issue, another 
card issued by a non-UK financial organisation or from certain store cards. I can see from 
Mr Ms application that he confirmed his acceptance to these terms. 
Mr M may not have known that his credit card was issued by US bank. But by reading and 
accepting these terms and conditions, he was on notice that if his other credit card was with 
a non-UK financial organisation, his transfer request would be declined. And he couldve 
checked with his other credit card provider to make sure.  
Ive thought about whether there is anything more I could reasonably expect Clydesdale 
Bank to do to ensure its customers are aware of the restrictions. And I dont think there is. It 
has provided the full terms and conditions in a document which customers are required to 
read. Furthermore, the online application process doesnt allow customers to proceed 
without confirming they have read it. I dont think theres anything more it couldve done to 
make Mr M aware.
In addition to this, Clydesdale Bank have information available on its website under the 
Frequently Asked Questions page. This says you can only complete a balance transfer from 
an American Express card that is underwritten by a UK Financial Organisation. Please note 
 some American Express cards have UK Company branding (such as British Airways) but 
are underwritten by a US Bank. If in doubt, please check with your provider.
Whilst I accept Mr Ms comments that he wouldnt think to look in the FAQ for this 
information, I think the information set out in the terms and conditions are clear. And Im 
satisfied this was enough to make Mr M aware of the restrictions to the account. 
Mr M has been given two options regarding the credit card account. Clydesdale Bank can 
process a money transfer. Or it can close the account and remove the footprint from Mr Ms 
credit file. I think these are both viable options to resolve the complaint. And I wont be 
asking Clydesdale Bank to do anything more. 
I do agree with Mr M that Clydesdale Bank shouldve made him aware the balance transfer 
had been declined. I dont think thats an unreasonable expectation. And whilst we wouldnt 
penalise a business for having queue times on the phone, Im persuaded there was a failing 
in its customer service by not returning Mr Ms call after he was disconnected from the 
advisor. 
My understanding is that, other than the cost of the phone calls, theres no financial loss 
arising from the customer service aspects to the complaint. And I think the trouble and upset 
from these points would be minimal. Overall, Im satisfied £75 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be asking Clydesdale Bank to pay anymore in 
respect of this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman