DRN-4061750
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt process a transfer he wanted to make 
while in branch.
What happened
Mr K went into a HSBC branch to transfer a large sum of money from his account. Mr K 
waited two hours to speak with the branch manager, only to be told by the branch manager 
that HSBC wouldnt be able to process the transfer that day and that he would have to return 
to branch the following morning. Mr K wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr K and explained that while the branch he visited can process 
transfers, they do so only on an appointment basis. And because Mr K didnt have an 
appointment, and because the branch didnt have the staff available to accommodate a 
walk-in appointment at that time, this was why hed been offered an appointment at the next 
available time  which was the following morning. Mr K wasnt satisfied with HSBCs 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that HSBC have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
HSBC have explained that the branch Mr K visited operates an appointment system for 
customers who want to make transfers such as Mr K wanted to make. And HSBC have 
confirmed that Mr K didnt have an appointment on the day he visited branch, which was why 
he was offered the next available appointment the following morning. 
This doesnt seem unreasonable to me. And, while I appreciate that Mr K waited a long time 
in branch in the hope of securing a walk-in appointment that day, HSBC have also confirmed 
that there werent the staff present in the branch to accommodate a walk-in appointment at 
that time. I appreciate that this was frustrating and unfortunate from Mr Ks perspective, but 
Im satisfied that HSBC were following the processes by which that type of HSBC branch 
operates, and so I dont feel that what happened was unfair. 
Mr K is unhappy that he waited two hours to see the branch manager. But Mr K has 
explained that he was told by HSBC staff that the branch manager was busy at that time and 
that he would likely be unavailable for a few hours. And so, I feel that any inconvenience that 
Mr K incurred because of the long wait was inconvenience he consented to rather than 
making an appointment to return another day  in line with the processes of that branch.
Mr K has explained that the HSBC staff he first spoke with could have conducted the transfer 
for him at any time during his two-hour wait to see the branch manager. But as explained, 
HSBCs branch conducts such transfers on an appointment basis, and I dont feel its 
unreasonable for HSBC to have staff members in branch who dont conduct appointments 
and who remain free to assist customers who come into branch for services that dont 
require an appointment. 
Additionally, Mr K has said that the branch manager could have processed the transfer 
during the 30-minute time that Mr K was speaking with them. But I dont feel that Mr K being 
told that he needed an appointment would, in all likelihood, have taken 30 minutes. And this 
leads me to hypothesise that a portion of the time that Mr K was speaking with the branch 
manager may have involved Mr K objecting to being asked to return to branch the next 
morning. And again, I feel that the most relevant point here is that Mr K didnt have an 
appointment on that day, as was required by that branch.
Mr Ks wider point here is that regardless of whether he had an appointment or not, there 
were HSBC staff available who could have conducted the transfer that day. But ultimately, I 
dont feel that its unreasonable or unfair for HSBC to have followed branch policy and to 
have required Mr K to book an appointment with them. And this is because Im satisfied that 
its most likely that the staff that could take appointments werent available to assist Mr K, 
and I dont feel it was unfair for HSBC to ensure that staff who dont take appointments were 
available for their other branch customers who dont require an appointment.
Mr K feels that HSBC refused to comply with a reasonable request and unfairly restricted his 
ability to transact on his account. But for the reasons explained above, I dont feel that Mr K 
was making a reasonable request. Rather, I feel that HSBC requiring Mr K to book an 
appointment with them in line with the processes of that branch was itself reasonable. 
Additionally, I also dont feel that HSBC unfairly restricted Mr Ks ability to make transfers 
from his account. Its unclear why HSBC would do such a thing, or for what reason Mr K 
feels HSBC would place such a restriction on him. And it also must be noted that Mr K was 
able to make the transfer he wanted to make shortly after his visit to branch, via cheque.
Finally, Mr K has explained that he believes the initial HSBC staff member he spoke with 
was going to process the transfer but that some form of warning appeared on her screen 
which told her not to do so. Again, its unclear why Mr K feels such a warning would be 
presented by HSBC to its staff. But HSBC have suggested that whats more likely to have 
taken place was that the staff member looked to see whether any availability for walk-in 
appointments was available on that day, and then confirmed to Mr K that there wasnt any. 
And, given all the information and testimonies presented to me here, I find HSBCs 
hypothesis to be more persuasive than Mr Ks in this instance. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr K was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action. I hope that Mr K will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman