DRN-4353725
The complaint
Mr J complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In December 2021, Mr J was researching investment opportunities when he received a 
message from someone claiming to work for a company Ill refer to as E. The broker had 
over 300 followers on his social media profile and posted daily content relating 
cryptocurrency and FOREX trading.
The posts had a high level of engagement and included detailed educational videos, case 
studies and positive reviews from existing clients, and Mr J noted the broker offered 24/7 
support, hassle-free withdrawals, and reliable advice. The broker told Mr J she had over 10 
years of experience working in finance and was currently self-employed. She said shed 
worked for E for three years and explained he would be contributing to a crowdsourced pool 
of cryptocurrencies or tokens, which would be used to facilitate trades.
Mr J scheduled an appointment with the broker and before going ahead with the investment, 
he checked Es website, which included an about us section, FAQs, and a 24/7 live chat 
option. It also provided details about the company directors and gave information about 
commodities including currency pairs such as EUR/USD and GBP/USD, stocks such as 
Google and Tesla, and cryptocurrencies, which included Bitcoin and Ethereum. 
Once Mr J confirmed he wanted to go ahead, he was given login details to a trading account 
which showed the fluctuating exchange rates of various currencies. The broker asked him to 
first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load 
the cryptocurrency onto an online wallet.
Mr J told the broker he was willing to invest ££540 and on 5 January 2022, he processed two 
payments via an account he held with another bank. He remained in regular contact with the 
broker via WhatsApp who suggested he should invest more to achieve greater profits, so he 
made an additional payment of £520. He then made several withdrawals from the trading 
account into the cryptocurrency exchange, opting to re-invest the profits each time. On 10 
January 2022, the broker told Mr J about a bonus scheme, in response to which he made 
more payments from his other account.
The balance continued to increase, and Mr J received regular bonuses. By February 2022, 
he told the broker he wanted to make a withdrawal and was told hed have to contact E via 
the live chat option. Mr J did this but was told he wasnt eligible for a withdrawal, as he 
needed £25,000 in his trading account, so he made further deposits, including £2963.05 on 
20 February 2022 using his Monzo card. 
During the scam period, the broker told Mr J she was investing with a company Ill refer to as 
B and this could help him to generate the money he needed to withdraw his funds from E. 
The broker sent him a link which directed him to Bs website, which showed it specialised in 
digital asset trading, including foreign currency pairs, cryptocurrency, oil, and gold. It 
promised hassle-free withdrawals with a first-class billing system. Mr J submitted two forms 
of photo ID and proof of address before receiving confirmation that all verification checks 
were complete. He was then given login details to access his trading account. 
On 5 April 2022, Mr J used his Monzo card to pay £1573.68, which was credited to his 
trading account and on 6 April 2022, he processed two additional payments via his other 
account. However, when he requested a withdrawal, he was told hed have to pay £2,000 
tax, so he processed two further payments, before being blocked from both trading accounts 
and realising hed been scammed.
Mr J complained to Monzo on 23 August 2022 stating it failed to warn him and recognise the 
payments were unusual and suspicious. But Monzo refused to refund the money hed lost 
arguing hed authorised the payments and it had executed them in accordance with his 
instructions. It said it provides education in relation to scams and has designated pages on 
its website which provide education on scams, and that the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code didnt apply to card payments.
It also said hed failed to compete a reasonable amount of due diligence, for example he 
didnt meet the broker or a representative from E or B. And it said social media wasnt a 
reliable source for investment advice. It also said he should have questioned why he was 
given login details rather than being asked to set up the account himself and that there was 
information available online indicating that B could be a scam.
Mr J wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. He said he didnt think Monzo had provided an acceptable level of service 
and explained the scam has had a massive impact on all aspects of his life. 
His representative has said Monzo had several opportunities to intervene and that the 
payments were highly unusual because they were high value to a new international payee. 
They said each payment was a missed opportunity to intervene and ask probing questions 
around the purpose of the payment and whether there was a third party involved, and that 
properly trained staff ought to have recognised the hallmarks of a typical impersonation 
scam and provided education about the risk of fraud.
They said that if Monzo had asked probing questions, Mr J would have been honest and 
whilst it knew he was sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, it should 
have still provided a scam warning in light of all the information known to banks about the 
increasing number of scams associated with cryptocurrency.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt think the 
payments were unusual, so Monzo didnt miss an opportunity to intervene. And because it 
didnt speak to or interact with him when he made the payments, it wouldnt have known the 
funds would be transferred to E or B, so he couldnt fairly ask it to do anything to resolve the 
complaint.
Mr F has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. His representative has 
argued that value isnt the only relevant aspect of a transfer, and the payments 
demonstrated a known scam pattern which Monzo failed to pick up on. They maintain that if 
Monzo had asked probing questions, it would have uncovered the scam. Mr J has said Monzo had a duty of care to protect him from fraud, which extended to 
promptly identifying and alerting him about suspicious transactions or potential scams and 
that his losses could have been prevented if appropriate action had been taken in a timely 
manner.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr J has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Monzo has said the CRM code doesnt apply to card payments and Im satisfied thats the 
case.
Im satisfied Mr J authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr J is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr J didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Monzo is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Monzo had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr J when he 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Monzo to intervene with a view to protecting Mr J from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Monzos systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr J 
normally ran his account, and I dont think they were. Mr Js representative has argued that 
the size of the transactions relative to Mr Js typical transacting history combined with the fact they were to an unusual payee should have raised concerns. Theyve said the largest 
payment in November 2021 was for £1,118.79 and the other payments that month were 
below £220. There were no credits of debits in December 2021 and in January 2022, the 
largest payment was for £10.
Based on this information, I accept Mr J didnt use the account for large payments. But the 
disputed payments were to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange, they werent high value, 
and they werent such that they were unusual for the account, especially as Mr J had made a 
payment of £1,118.79 in November 2021. So, I dont think Monzo missed an opportunity to 
intervene.
Overall, Im satisfied Monzo took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr J has lost 
money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Monzo is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman