DRN-3469866
The complaint
Mr L complains that NewDay Limited wont reimburse him for a payment he made on his 
credit card towards what he says was an investment scam.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr L made a payment for £4,500 on his NewDay Mastercard credit card. 
Mr L believed the payment was going to fund his investment account with a firm Ill refer to 
as I. It appeared on his statement as going to a different merchant that Ill refer to as K. 
The wider background also involves another third party G who Mr L says enticed him to 
enter a scam investment scheme. 
In March 2020 Mr L contacted New Day and asked them to try to get his money back. 
NewDay ultimately said he didnt have a valid claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (s.75). Mr L complained, he believed he had a valid chargeback claim and 
this should have been considered. When NewDay maintained their position, the complaint 
was referred to our service. One of our Investigators didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. As he disagrees, Mr L has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that he would like NewDay to refund him the £4,500 payment 
relevant to this complaint (and potentially further losses if applicable under s.75). So, Ive 
considered whether there is any reasonable basis for NewDay to do so. I dont think there is, 
and Ill explain why. 
NewDay have obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in their customers best interests. But 
many of these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. Sometimes there are 
allegations of a fraud which turn out to be bad bargains or poor investments. I dont need to 
make a finding as to whether I or G were operating a scam to decide this complaint. This is 
because even if they were, I dont think NewDay ought to have intervened at the time the 
payment was made anyway. I say this for the following reasons:
At the time (August 2019) there werent any warnings about K (the merchant that 
received the payment) on either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website or the 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) investor alerts portal.
If other parties such as G and I had some involvement in the circumstances of the 
payment, NewDay couldnt reasonably have known this at the time. 
The payment wasnt so unusual that I think its reasonable to have expected NewDay 
to have intervened on that basis. It was more than Mr L typically spent, but still within 
his available credit limit. I dont think its unusual for a credit card to be used for one 
off or larger payments from time to time. 
Once the payment had already been made, the only options available for recovery were 
chargeback or s.75.
NewDay are bound by the Mastercard chargeback scheme rules. These are clear that there 
is a time limit of 120 days from the date of the transaction to raise a chargeback. By the time 
Mr L contacted NewDay in March 2020 120 days had already passed from the date of the 
payment. So it was reasonable that NewDay didnt pursue a chargeback as there was no 
realistic prospect of it succeeding. 
S.75 requires that there is an unbroken link between the Debtor (Mr L), Creditor (NewDay) 
and the Supplier (I). This is referred to as the DCS chain. But in this case, all the payments 
go to K. Ive not seen evidence to support that K were party to any contract between Mr L 
and I and as such the DCS chain is broken and s.75 doesnt therefore apply. The alleged 
breaches of contract all refer to I, and I dont think Mr L has evidenced a claim against K 
either (in the event they were to be considered the supplier). Overall, I dont think NewDay 
were unreasonable when concluding Mr L didnt have a valid claim under s.75.
Im of course sorry to hear Mr L lost his money. But as I dont think there is a reasonable 
basis for NewDay to reimburse him, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman