DRN-3155984
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr W complain about Insurance Factory Ltd, trading as Insurance Choice,
(Insurance Factory) in respect of a change to their insurance cover which left them without
flood cover when they experienced a flood. They want Insurance Factory to reimburse them
for their losses.  
What happened
In 2013, Mrs B and Mr W purchased their home insurance from company N, using Insurance
Factory as their broker.
Flood cover was initially included in their policy and this was required by their mortgage
company as a condition of the mortgage.
Mrs B and Mr Ws policy renewed in 2014 and 2015, via Insurance Factory. The terms of 
renewal were provided by N to Insurance Factory, who then relayed the renewal invitation on
to Mrs B and Mr W.
In 2015, their premium cost a total of £992.08 over the year.
In October 2016, N sent terms of Mrs B and Mr Ws renewal invitation to Insurance Factory.
In the covering email, N pointed out that it was no longer possible to offer flood cover to Mrs
B and Mr W. This was because of a change which meant that N would have to apply a flood
loss limit, which could only be done with homes which were owned outright and without a
mortgage.
The premium for cover had reduced as a result of the exclusion, to £842.11 for the year. 
Insurance Factory sent the renewal invitation to Mrs B and Mr W, apparently without any
accompanying comment. The schedule provided did detail that flood was excluded from
cover.
Mrs B and Mr W renewed their policy.
The renewed again in 2017, 2018 and 2019.
In early 2020, Mrs B and Mr W experienced a flood at their home. They submitted a claim,
and this claim was declined on the basis that flood was excluded.
Mrs B and Mr W returned to Insurance Factory and requested that their policy be cancelled.
Insurance Factory then offered to undertake a market exercise to find alternative cover
which did include flood cover.
Mrs B and Mr W made a complaint to us. They thought that they had been mis-sold their 
insurance as they had always wanted flood cover, and they could not understand why they
had not been covered when they needed it.
Our investigator did not uphold their complaint. They pointed to the change in the schedule
as being sufficient notice to Mrs B and Mr W that the policy had changed and thought that it
was incumbent upon them to check the cover offered each year at renewal.
Mrs B and Mr did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
I set out my provisional view on this complaint in October 2021. In that provisional decision I 
disagreed with the previous view and thought that Insurance Factory had failed to inform Mrs 
B and Mr W of the change in their policy cover, after N informed Insurance Factory. I 
therefore considered that the complaint ought to be upheld and that Insurance Factory 
should pay Mrs B and Mr Ws losses sustained in the flood. I also considered that Insurance 
Factory should pay Mrs B and Mr W £500 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to 
provide comments and evidence in response. 
Mrs B and Mr W have responded, accepting the decision. 
Insurance Factory has responded, accepting the decision and agreeing that it will reimburse 
Mrs B and Mr Ws losses from the flood, and will pay them compensation. Insurance Factory 
says that Mrs B and Mr W did not incur losses by changing insurer as their change in insurer 
took place at renewal, and it disputes my understanding that the sale of the policy was 
advised, or that Insurance Factory recommended the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept the comments made by Insurance Factory correcting my understanding that the 
sale of the original policy had been advised, or that the policy was recommended. Insurance 
Factory explains that it does not offer advice and instead it merely gives customers 
information in order for them to make informed decisions on their cover.   
I have considered whether this affects my provisional view and I do not think it makes a 
material difference.
In this instance Insurance Factory was the mechanism for communication between N and 
the consumers, and so the failure I provisionally found was still a failure, even in a non-
advised sale. I remain of the view that Insurance Factory needed to draw Mrs B and Mr Ws 
attention to the changes in order for them to make an informed decision about whether to 
continue cover, and that it did not do so. 
Insurance Factory has explained that Mrs B and Mr W changed insurer at the point of 
renewal so there were no additional costs incurred by their changing insurer. I therefore 
revise my reference to those additional costs. 
Insurance Factory has indicated that it may rely on other terms of the policy when settling 
the claim, such as requiring evidence or making a settlement. I accept this. 
Consequently, nothing that has been added by the parties alters my view (save for the removal of the reference to reimbursing any costs of changing insurer). I therefore adopt my 
provisional decision, as supplemented by these comments, as my final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, I uphold Mrs B and Mr Ws 
complaint and direct Insurance Factory Ltd to:
Reimburse Mrs B and Mr W for their reasonable losses following the flood in early 
2020; and
Pay to Mrs B and Mr W £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman