DRN-3372671
The complaint
Mr v says Scottish Equitable Plc (SE), trading as Retiready, mis-sold its Retiready pension 
to him in 2014  with regards to its assurance that he would be able to access his pension 
benefits (in the future and upon reaching the age to do so) provided he is resident within the 
European Union (EU) when he does so. He says this was an important assurance for him 
at the time because he was not planning to remain in the UK, instead he planned to move 
abroad but to remain in the EU, and SE was aware of this. 
He is no longer resident in the UK. He says the UKs exit from the EU meant a loss of his UK 
bank account, because he is no longer a UK resident and his UK bank account was 
withdrawn for this reason; that SE insists access to his benefits depends on him having a UK 
bank account; and that SE has refused to give him an assurance that he will still be able to 
access his benefits in the future even if he does not have one. He considers that SE has 
essentially misappropriated his pension, that it has changed the terms for the pension 
without his consent and that the present terms (and SEs position in the matter) conflicts with 
how the pension was sold to him because he was not told that his bank account for the 
pension had to be a UK bank account.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the case and concluded that it should not be upheld. He 
mainly said:
The Retiready pension was a direct product offered by SE (through Aegon) to Mr v 
on a non-advised basis. The terms he agreed for the pension required, at the time, 
that he was resident in the UK, which he was.
In October 2018 SE received confirmation from Mr vs bank that the direct debits set 
up for the payment of contributions had been cancelled, so the payments had 
stopped. In 2019 there were updates to SEs records for him to reflect his changes of 
address and his residence abroad (but within the EU). In October 2020 he raised the 
concerns in the present complaint with SE and sought its assurance that he will be 
able to access his pension benefits in the future or, in the alternative, a full refund of 
all contributions he had made to the pension (and all fees he had paid).
SEs position in response to the complaint is not unreasonable. Due to Brexit certain 
UK banks took the decision to close accounts belonging to European Economic Area 
non-UK residents like Mr v, so alternative arrangements became necessary for the 
payment of benefits from their UK pensions. SE says, at the time, it was still 
considering the impact of Brexit on its operations and that it will work towards being 
able to help Mr v access his pension at the relevant time in the future in the 
circumstances as they are then. As Mr v is decades away from being able to take 
benefits from the pension and as the landscape when that time comes could be more 
settled than it is now, this is not an unreasonable assurance  especially as SE gave 
him no guarantees about accessing his pension without a UK bank account  to the 
contrary, the need for a UK bank account for the pension was an express part of the 
terms he agreed  and given that it cannot fairly be held responsible for matters 
outside its control (like Brexit and its impacts). There is provision in the agreed terms 
which reinforces this and confirms that SE would not be liable for third-party actions.
There is no evidence that the pension was mis-sold to Mr v as he alleges, and no 
recordings exist for the telephone conversation(s) in which he says the bank account 
requirement was stated differently. In the absence of a cancellation of the plan within 
the cooling off period, of a genuine error in the plan and/or of contributions exceeding 
100% of relevant UK earnings, there are no grounds for a refund of contributions in 
his case. SEs position is that it will continue to administer the pension (and it will 
remain invested as it is until instructed otherwise) and this will be so unless and until 
Mr v instructs its transfer to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme 
(QROPS)  and it will not allow for a transfer that breaches regulatory or HMRC 
rules. This too is a fair position, as SE cannot reasonably be expected to breach such 
rules.
Mr vs claim that the QROPS option is misleading is incorrect. He says the option is 
not possible in his country of residence, if so, that does not mean it is not a viable 
potential option for any other non-UK resident pension holder. It was not presented 
by SE as a recommendation to him, SE did not give advice in this respect, instead it 
was mentioned as a potential option to consider.
Mr v disagrees with this outcome. He maintains his key claims and mainly adds the following 
 SEs requirement for a UK bank account is arbitrary and outside of the pension laws; there 
is a real risk that he will be denied access to his pension benefits and SE is obliged to 
ensure against that; in the circumstances he should be entitled to cancel the pension and the 
investigators comments about the lack of grounds to do so lacks merit; he has proposed a 
solution whereby SE buys him out of the pension, the investigators comment that this is not 
permissible is unsupported by HMRC rules; based on the UK Withdrawal agreement it is 
illegal for a pension holder like him to be subjected to adverse effects for moving/living 
abroad and for a pension provider like SE to penalise such a pension holder by refusing to 
pay pensions, charging additional costs or requiring a refund of interest; SE is in breach in 
these respects; SE is also in breach of UK government guidance which says Your pension 
provider should have made plans to make sure you can still get payments from your annuity 
or personal pension following the UK leaving the EU; and SE has manipulated the 
availability of telephone recordings that support his case. 
The investigator and Mr v had a detailed discussion in which the investigator agreed to seek 
from SE a written guarantee of what it will do in the future when Mr v reaches the age to take 
his pension benefits. The investigator noted on record the minimum contents Mr v sought in 
such a guarantee  which essentially reflected what SE had said to us  and he put the 
proposal to SE. In its letter to Mr v of 21 September 2021 SE presented the written 
guarantee to him as follows  
I understand youve been discussing your complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service 
(FOS) of late. They came to us with a potential solution they had discussed with you, which 
you said you would be happy with.
We told FOS we continue to work to make sure we are able to provide the support needed to 
consumers such as yourself. Current legislation states the minimum age at which you can 
take benefits from a UK pension plan is age 55, although this will increase to age 57 in 2028. 
Therefore, the earliest date you would currently be able to take benefits from your Retiready 
pension is your 57th birthday ...Taking into account legislation in place, we will work with you to allow you to access your 
pension funds. In resolution of the complaint, FOS said you want this specifically stated in a 
letter to you, to provide you with a form of guarantee to access your benefits in the future.
With this in mind, please be assured that when you contact us after you reach minimum 
pension age and indicate you want to settle any/all of your pension benefits, we'll work with 
you to make sure youre able to receive your funds. Whilst it is possible that there may be 
future unforeseen developments which cannot be predicted, we are currently working to 
develop our capability to make payments to overseas bank accounts. In future we hope this 
will enable us to help customers in your circumstances, but whatever the position is when 
you do come to take your benefits, well work with you to help you access your pension.
I hope this helps to bring your complaint to a satisfactory conclusion, but please let me know 
if you need anything else and Ill do my best to help 
If you have any questions about this or if theres anything I can do to help, please contact me 
using the details in this letter. If you prefer to write to me, please include our reference and 
your wrapper number above.
Mr v considered the letter to be a very weak guarantee and to be unacceptable. He said he 
needs a guarantee that SE  will do anything they legally can do to ensure the customer to 
access their pension funds. He also noted that the matter of non-UK residents losing their 
UK bank accounts after Brexit is already dated by over a year, so SE has had time to identify 
a solution and its comment about presently working on the matter does not inspire 
confidence. The investigator reminded him that the written guarantee SE provided was 
exactly what he asked for during their conversation. Mr v disagreed. He expressed a lack of 
trust in SE and said a buy-out, by SE, of his pension or its transfer to the branch of Aegon in 
his country of residence are the viable solutions.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find as follows:
The main issue underlying this case is about Mr vs future access to his pension 
benefits, following the loss of his UK bank account and given the requirement, within 
the terms of the pension, for such an account in order to receive the pension 
benefits. There is no issue about his pension being misappropriated by SE, the 
pension remains his, and as it is, and SE has expressly affirmed this.
It follows from my statement above that I am satisfied the terms of the pension, from 
its outset, made clear the requirement for a UK bank account. This can be verified in 
the Payments Out section of the March 2014 terms, which refers to a nominated UK 
bank account for the pension and to payments being remitted to that bank account. 
As such, this requirement existed in the terms agreed by Mr v and from the start of 
the pension, and it was not arbitrarily or unilaterally introduced thereafter.
The case is not about SE inflicting adverse effects upon Mr v or penalising him (by 
refusing to pay his pension) because he has moved, and is residing, abroad. His 
pension remains in place and intact despite his move abroad. SE has expressly 
guaranteed that it will continue to administer the pension and keep it as it has been invested unless and until Mr v instructs otherwise and/or arranges an appropriate 
transfer. There is also no evidence that SE has refused to pay his pension. First, he 
is quite some time away  decades away  from taking his pension benefits so, as a 
simple matter of fact, there has been no call for such benefits which has been 
refused. Secondly, it is clear from SEs undertaking to him of 21 September 2021 
that, if the pension remains with SE at the time Mr v can take the benefits, it intends 
to do the opposite of depriving him of that. It intends to do all that it can, in the 
circumstances as they are at the time, to ensure he can take the benefits.
The cooling off period early in the pension, within which the terms allow cancellation, 
has long passed, so in this regard the cancellation proposed by Mr v is not viable. In 
addition, I have not seen grounds of any contractual wrongdoing by SE that could 
give rise to an argument for termination on such basis. As I said above, the UK bank 
account requirement was not misrepresented or belatedly introduced and no 
detriment has been unfairly inflicted by SE upon Mr vs pension. Furthermore, and as 
the investigator noted, the terms provide that SE is not liable for third party actions 
beyond its control  which is broadly common in contracts and in their interpretation. 
Brexit and its effects, including, in this case, the decision of a third-party UK bank to 
withdraw Mr vs UK bank account due to a combination of Brexit and his move 
abroad (to an EU country), all fall into this category. I acknowledge that some of 
these elements have been debated, but on balance and for the reason I have just 
given, I do not consider that SE has a case to answer in their respects, so I make no 
findings on them.
The UK government guidance Mr v has cited is precisely that  a guidance. No 
regulatory or legislative rule imposes the responsibility upon SE that Mr v has argued 
for, and, as a general observation, businesses in different sectors presently continue 
to explore adaptations to their operations in the aftermath of Brexit. Having said this, I 
do not dismiss what he views as an unreasonable delay in SE identifying a solution 
for a pension holder in his situation. I acknowledge that it would have been valuable 
for him if SE had, by now, identified such a solution. It has explained that it has been 
faced with a variety of circumstances related to its clients and others have reached 
resolutions, but unfortunately the circumstances in Mr vs case have essentially 
meant that a solution for him remains in progress. It is beyond my remit to prescribe 
how a firm manages its operations, so it is also beyond the scope of this decision for 
me to determine whether (or not) SE should already have identified a solution, as 
part of its operations, for pension holders like Mr v. My concluding finding, which I 
explain below, is that SE has addressed the matter as reasonably as it can in the 
circumstances and without a basis to predict or control the future landscape.
Mr v is entitled to consider his position with SE and to declare a loss of trust in it if 
that is how he feels. However, in the absence of a wrongdoing by SE, the 
responsibility to address such loss of trust is his, not SEs. I do not consider it 
necessary to be drawn into the debate about whether (or not) a QROPS is a viable 
option for him. Consideration of any type of alternative to his SE/Retiready pension, 
because he no longer trusts SE/Retiready and/or because of the potential future 
benefits withdrawal issue, is a matter for him. The same applies to his suggestion of 
a transfer to the Aegon branch in his country of residence  that too is a matter for 
him. The task before me is to determine his complaint about SE  that is, whether (or 
not) it should be upheld, it is not my role to give advice on his options. Whichever 
way it is viewed, his proposal of a buy-out will potentially result in a remittance of the 
pensions value to him. I agree with the investigators point that this does not match 
any of the grounds on which HMRC permits remittance of benefits (or value) from a 
pension, so SE cannot reasonably be expected to act outside HMRC rules. I also consider that, in real terms, such a buy-out at present broadly amounts to the same 
as taking the pensions benefits prematurely (before Mr v reaches the age at which 
he can legally do so).
With regards to the recordings of the telephone conversation(s) Mr v says he had 
with SE, and which he says supports his case, SEs position is that they are not 
available. I have not seen evidence to doubt that, nor have I seen evidence to 
support his suggestion that SE has manipulated availability of the recordings.
I have listened to the recording of the telephone conversation between Mr v and the 
investigator, which led to SEs written undertaking to him of 21 September 2021. 
What SE wrote in the undertaking  as I have quoted above  is indeed what Mr v 
asked for. I appreciate that he is entitled to change his mind if he wishes to and I 
have noted his view about the undertaking not being strong enough, but as a matter 
of fact the undertaking matches what he asked the investigator for and, furthermore, 
it broadly matches what he asked for at the outset of his complaint. Aside from this, 
my concluding view is that, on balance, the undertaking that SE has given him is a 
reasonable and meaningful solution in the circumstances of his case. The time when 
he will be eligible to take his pension benefit is a number of decades away. SE 
cannot predict (or control) what the landscape will be at that time, so the matter sits 
firmly in this context. It has assured him that at the relevant time in the future it  
will work with [him] to allow [him] to access [his] pension funds, that it will  work 
with [him] to make sure [hes] able to receive [his] funds and that  whatever the 
position is when [he does] come to take [his] benefits, [itll] work with [him] to help 
[him] access [his] pension. Overall and on balance, I do not consider this to be a 
weak assurance, instead it is a reasonably strong assurance that has been given in 
the context noted above  which means SE cannot reasonably be expected to 
predict or control the circumstances in which it will be addressing the matter in the 
future; and which means its assurance at present must give allowance for that, which 
it rightfully does. 
For the above reasons, I am not persuaded by Mr vs claim for anything more from 
SE.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr v to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman