DRN-1320592
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy. Its 
been agreed that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept responsibility for the sale. For 
simplicity Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs B took out a store card in 1996. Subsequently, during a phone call in 2001, she took out 
PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mrs B 
disagreed the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this in making my decision in Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Because of the time that has passed AXA does not have much detail about how the policy 
was sold. And we dont have a copy of the actual policy terms that applied to her card. So 
Ive had to base my decision on the information that I do have. This includes considering the 
policy terms of the same insurers that were in use for other store cards around the time of 
the sale. And what we know generally about the sale of store cards.
Mrs B says that AXA told her that she needed PPI cover on her account. I have no reason 
to doubt that that is what Mrs B now recalls was said during the sales call. However, 
because this happened so long ago, I dont think that I can fairly rely solely on Mrs Bs 
recollection. I say this because she had had the store card for over four years without 
insurance. And, without further details of what was actually said, I dont find that I can 
conclude that AXA didnt make it clear that the policy was optional.
In response to the adjudicators view, Mrs B also says that she was subjected to pressured 
selling. But this is a very subjective area and, without more information about what happened 
during the telephone call, I dont find I can reasonably decide that AXA pressurised Mrs B.
I cant be sure whether AXA recommend Mrs B to take out the PPI or whether it left it up to 
her to make the decision. But, if it did make a recommendation, AXA had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mrs B. In any event, based on what I know 
about her circumstances at the time and what I think were the likely terms of the policy, I 
find that it was suitable because:
    Mrs B was eligible for the PPI;
Mrs B wasnt affected by any of the policys main limitations and restrictions  such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Mrs B says that she was entitled to sick pay from her employer and that she had some 
savings. But following a successful claim the PPI would likely to have paid 15% of her 
store credit account balance a month had she been unable to work because of accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment. These payments would have been likely to have 
been paid until she was able to return to work. And would have been in addition to 
anything she got from her employment - leaving her sick pay and savings available to 
meet her other expenses while she was unable to work. So I think that the insurance 
could have been of use to Mrs B;
The premiums were likely to have been one pound a month for each £100 
outstanding on her account. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs B 
couldnt afford this. In any event, had she later felt that she no longer wanted the 
PPI or that it was unaffordable for her, Mrs B could have cancelled it at any time 
without further cost, as it was paid for monthly.
Its possible that AXA didnt tell Mrs B everything she needed to know about the PPI so that 
she could make an informed decision whether she wanted it or not. But from what Ive 
concluded above I dont think that Mrs B would have made a different decision and decided 
not to take the PPI had she been given clearer information. 
Mrs B mentions the issue of undisclosed commission. The Supreme Court decided a case 
that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance. But I 
dont think this makes a difference to this complaint. This is because the judgment was about 
what a lender should do in some circumstances  and this complaint is not about a lender.
So I find that Mrs B hasnt lost out because of anything that AXA may have done wrong 
during the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require AXA to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman