The complaint
Mrs G complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a 
store card. The insurer, AXA France IARD, has accepted responsibility for the sale.
What happened
Mrs G had a store card, which began in November 1994. In 1997, PPI was added to the 
account. The cost of the PPI was charged to the account and Mrs G would repay these 
charges with interest in line with the account's terms and conditions.
Mrs G thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld.
Mrs G didn't agree with the adjudicator.
The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mrs G knew PPI was added to the account. Mrs G has told us 
she cannot recall ever being told she had PPI attached to the store card. She says she 
doesn't take out store provided insurance. She says there's no way she'd have agreed to the 
PPI.
Because of the time that's passed, AXA doesn't have a copy of the credit agreement or a 
recording of the phone call in which it says it sold Mrs G the policy. I don't think that's 
unreasonable: the card itself closed in 2010, and AXA says the policy was cancelled in 2006. 
I wouldn't expect AXA to have kept these records indefinitely. But AXA does have some 
records of the PPI including when it started and ended and how much it charged Mrs G for 
the policy.
So I've thought about what's most likely to have happened based on the information I've 
seen.
AXA says it sold the PPI over the phone. I think that's right: AXA's records show the store 
card account started in 1994, but the PPI didn't begin until 1997. Given the very limited 
DRN-1132988information I have about the sale, I can't say for sure how PPI would have been presented 
during that call. But the account had already been in place for several years - so I don't think 
it's likely Mrs G would have thought she had to buy the PPI. It's likely the charge for PPI 
would have appeared on Mrs G's statements - and it looks as though the policy was 
cancelled in 2006, while the account continued until 2010. And so on balance I think it's most 
likely that Mrs G knew she had the PPI at the time, even if she doesn't now remember this. 
And given the very limited information available, I'm not satisfied that Mrs G didn't want the 
policy or didn't agree to buy it.
AXA didn't recommend the policy to Mrs G, so it didn't have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
It's possible the information AXA gave Mrs G about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should've 
been. But based on what I've seen of her circumstances, it doesn't look as though she was 
affected by any of the exclusions or limits of on the PPI cover, so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I don't think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
I've thought about the other points Mrs G has raised. I accept she got some sick pay from 
her employer - but this policy would have repaid 15% of the outstanding balance every 
month until the account was repaid in full. It also covered her if she lost her job. I'm not 
satisfied this would have made a difference to her decision. I also recognise that Mrs G 
thinks her family and friends might have helped if she'd been in financial difficulties. But 
while I don't doubt they may have wanted to help, I don't think this was guaranteed to be 
available when she needed it. So this doesn't change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman