DRN-2347529
The complaint
Miss G complains about esure Insurance Limiteds delays in handling her claim after she 
was involved in a car accident.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Esure asked Miss G to complete a statement and diagram form to obtain details 
about the accident as the third-party insurer asked for a copy. They did so on four 
separate occasions between March and July 2020. However, Miss G refused to 
complete and return this form as she felt esure already had the relevant information 
to pursue her claim.
I appreciate Miss G felt she had already explained the circumstances surrounding 
her accident and provided supporting information. However, liability was being 
disputed by the third party and this form was requested by their insurer. Given those 
circumstances, I dont consider esure acted unreasonably by asking Miss G to 
complete a statement and diagram form.
A general condition in Miss Gs policy says she must supply copies of any 
documents we might ask for. And I consider Miss Gs refusal to complete the 
statement and diagram form meant she wasnt acting in line with the terms of her 
policy. And having reviewed esures system notes, I have also seen that it delayed 
the progression of her claim by a number of months.
Miss G has questioned when a copy of a text message she received from the police 
was sent to the third-party insurer, and I can see it was sent in July 2020. This may 
be later than Miss G may have wanted. But given that this message didnt say the 
third party was at fault for the accident, I cant fairly say this delayed the settlement of 
her claim. This is further supported by the fact the claim remained unresolved for a 
number of months after the third-party insurer saw this message.
Miss G has also said that she asked esure for information so that she could pursue 
the third party directly if esure werent able to recover her costs. I cant see if this 
information was sent to her, but I havent seen anything that suggests Miss G wanted 
esure to stop acting on her behalf at that time. So, this point doesnt change the way 
I consider this complaint should be resolved.
Despite the time taken for Miss Gs claim to be resolved, I can see that esure kept 
her updated on their progress  particularly from January 2020. I dont dispute 
Miss G may have needed to contact esure throughout the claims process, but there 
is always a level of inconvenience when making a claim. So, I dont think esure 
treated her unfairly in respect of this point.
Considering the above, although I understand Miss Gs frustrations, I do not uphold her 
complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman