DRN-4219579
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has offered to settle a claim 
under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs J lost one of her vintage diamond earrings when it fell out of her ear whilst outside her 
home. She made a claim on her home insurance policy which Aviva accepted. 
Aviva has offered to instruct its jewellery specialist to remake the earrings using the existing 
stone. But Mrs J isnt happy with this offer as the earrings would no longer be antiques. She 
raised a complaint, which she brought to our service. 
Our Investigator didnt think Aviva had offered a settlement which was in line with the policy 
terms and conditions, so he upheld the complaint. He said Aviva should either replace the 
earrings with a vintage pair or pay a cash settlement for the amount it would cost Aviva to 
replace them. 
Mr and Mrs J accepted our Investigators recommendations, but Aviva didnt. It says it 
offered to replace the earrings by making a new pair. The complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js home insurance policy say:
Settling claims
We can choose to settle your claim by 
replacing;
reinstating;
repairing;
payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent in the 
current market. If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or 
voucher settlement we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it.
Pairs, Sets and Suites
If we are unable to repair or replace a damaged item that forms part of a pair, set, 
suite or any other items of a uniform nature, design or colour we will pay for the cost 
of replacing undamaged items. 
If we ask, you will be required to give us any undamaged items that we have paid to 
have replaced. We will talk you through this process if requested. 
Aviva cant repair the earring as its lost. So they must either replace it or pay a cash 
settlement. 
Under the terms and conditions, a replacement will be on a like for like basis. So as Mrs J 
has lost an antique vintage earring, shes entitled to have it replaced with an antique vintage 
earring. And as its part of a set, shes entitled to have the remaining earring replaced also. 
I appreciate Aviva has offered to replace the earrings by making Mrs J a new pair with the 
remaining diamond. But in those circumstances, Mrs J doesnt end up with a like for like 
replacement. Instead, she has a brand-new set of earrings which are unlikely to be worth as 
much the antique pair she had.  
As such, Im not persuaded that Avivas claim settlement is in line with the cover Mrs J can 
reasonably expect under her home insurance policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding the complaint and directing Aviva Insurance 
Limited to settle the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions by either:
1. providing a like for like replacement in the form of a vintage pair of earrings, or
2. pay the cash equivalent of what it would cost Aviva to replace them. 
Aviva is entitled to retain the remaining earring as salvage should it wish to and the claim 
settlement is subject to any applicable policy excess. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman