DRN-2656469
The complaint
Mr A complains about a personal loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as 
Loans 2 Go, (L2G), which he says was unaffordable. He also complained about the interest 
rate on the loan.
What happened
L2G provided Mr A with a loan of £750 on 5 June 2019. The interest rate was 207.6% 
(1,013.2% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 18 months with monthly repayments of 
£171.42. If Mr A made each payment when it was due, hed pay £3,085.56 in total. Mr A paid 
the first two monthly repayments, but he fell into arrears after that. So, the loan hasnt been 
repaid. 
Mr A says that he was struggling with payday loans and taking one out to pay another. It had 
got to the point where he couldnt pay. If L2G had done proper checks, it would have seen all 
the loans getting bigger and more frequent. Mr A said that he couldnt afford to live. He had 
set up payment arrangements with all the other loan companies but L2G wouldnt put his 
account on hold. Mr A said that L2G would accept £100 for two months but interest would 
keep being added. It was also affecting his mental health as he was suffering with 
depression. Mr A would like the interest on the loan to be refunded and an affordable 
repayment plan set up. Mr A also wanted to complain about the amount of interest L2G was 
charging.  
In its final response letter L2G said that Mr A had declared his income as £1,652 but it 
verified the minimum income required for the loan to be affordable as £1,421.55 and 
deducted 5% from this as an additional buffer to account for any fluctuations in expenditure. 
So, it considered the application using a net income of £1,350.47. L2G said that Mr A 
declared his monthly credit commitments to total £500. It added an additional £584.83 to this 
amount so that Mr As total expenditure equalled £1,084.83. This left a disposable income of 
£265.64. After the monthly loan payment of £171.42 had been deducted, L2G said Mr A was 
left with sufficient funds to deem the loan to be affordable. With regard to Mr As complaint 
about the interest on his agreement, L2G said that interest had been charged in line with the 
contractual terms and conditions. So, it was unable to agree that the interest rate was higher 
than expected. 
Our adjudicators view 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. She didnt  
think there was anything in the information L2G gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent
to Mr A or that it shouldve probed further into Mr As circumstances. With regard to the 
aspect of Mr As complaint relating to the interest rate, she said that she couldnt comment 
on the interest applied to this loan or tell the lender what interest rate should be charged.
Mr A disagreed. He said that if L2G didn't see his other loans then it couldnt have done
proper checks. Mr A also said that L2G had put the money in his account before he had 
even signed the agreement.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it came to me, as an ombudsman, to 
review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to L2G on 3 February 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id said that I would consider each aspect of Mr As complaint separately.
Irresponsible lending
Id said that I was sorry to hear that Mr As health had been affected by taking out the loan. 
I noted that when L2G lent to Mr A the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
L2G was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr As creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that L2G 
had to consider both the risk to it that Mr A wouldnt make the repayments under the 
agreement when due, and the risk to Mr A of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, L2G had to consider Mr As ability to make repayments under the agreement as 
they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to meet the 
repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual or 
statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
The rules didnt set out any specific checks which had to be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender needed to take into account the borrowers income (over the 
full term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. 
Whilst it was down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these 
needed to be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, 
the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the 
credit. So, a lenders assessment of creditworthiness needed to be flexible and what was 
appropriate for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a 
borrower in one circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed 
checks
 the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr As case, Id considered the 
following questions: - Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr As loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did L2G make a fair lending decision? 
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr As loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
As Id set out above, L2G had gathered some information from Mr A about his income and 
expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check.
Id reviewed L2Gs credit checks. L2G was aware from these that Mr A wasnt in an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, he wasnt bankrupt and there were no county court 
judgements against him. There were also no defaulted accounts in the six months prior to 
the loan application and Mr A was up to date with his credit repayments. Mr A had a total 
credit balance of £5,519 outstanding. L2G would have been aware that Mr A had four credit 
cards and that he was near two of the cards limits. L2G would also have seen that Mr A had 
a loan on which the balance was £4,343 and for which he was paying a monthly amount of 
£154. The checks showed that Mr A had received other loans (including short term loans) in 
the past, but the last of these had been repaid a year before the loan application. Altogether, 
I didnt think the results of its checks alone should have caused L2G additional concerns.
But Mr A was entering into an expensive loan agreement. And L2G was aware that he had 
declared £390 for living costs plus £500 for credit commitments on his application form 
which left him with a disposable income of £762. This seemed unlikely given that he wanted 
to borrow £750. So, in these circumstances I didnt think it was reasonable for L2G to have 
relied on the information provided by Mr A without verifying it. I thought L2G should 
reasonably have taken steps to gain a more thorough understanding of Mr As financial 
position in order to satisfy itself that he could sustainably repay the loan. L2G didnt say that 
it had taken steps to do this, other than to verify Mr As income using an online tool. So 
overall, I didnt think the checks L2G had carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But that in itself didn't mean that Mr As complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown L2G that   
Mr A couldn't sustainably afford the loan. So, Id looked at Mr As credit report and bank 
statements to see what better checks would have shown L2G.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did L2G make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr A had provided his credit report and his bank statements from around the time hed 
applied for the loan. I wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that L2G should have 
done. But I thought looking at his credit report and bank statements gave me the best picture 
of what the lender should have seen. 
Id noted that Mr As monthly income was around the amount hed declared to L2G when 
applying for the loan. But had L2G sought some verification of Mr As spending, Id thought 
L2G wouldve been in a better position to understand Mr As financial situation before it had 
decided to lend to him.
 
Had L2G looked into Mr As finances in more depth, it would have likely seen that he was 
paying £800 in credit card repayments, £155 on a hire purchase loan and around £700 on 
living costs. In addition, I think it would have likely found out that he was reliant on short term 
lending and high cost credit. He had borrowed £800 in short term loans and a high cost credit loan for £1,000 in the previous month. He had made repayments of around £811 in the 
previous month. He also had at least five outstanding short term loans which would have 
been repayable at the same time as L2Gs loan. 
As Mr A was borrowing a significant amount of short term loans each month just to fund his 
existing expenditure and credit commitments, I think there was a very real prospect that Mr A 
would have needed to borrow again in order to repay his new loan and that would likely have 
a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. So, further checks would likely have 
shown that Mr As expenditure on living costs and credit commitments significantly exceeded 
his income, he had other debts it didnt know about and Mr A was having significant 
difficulties managing his money. 
So, it was clear that further checks wouldnt likely have provided the assurance L2G needed. 
Id noted that L2G had said that Mr As disposable income was £265.64 and that after the 
loan repayment had been made, Mr A would have been left with sufficient funds to deem the 
loan to be affordable. But it seemed to me that L2G was focussing on its calculation of 
whether the loan was affordable for Mr A on a pounds and pence basis. But the lender was 
required to establish whether Mr A could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt automatically follow that this 
was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their 
payments, it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, 
that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that 
they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Looking at the account information wed received from L2G, I could see that Mr A had only 
repaid the first two payments on the loan. In early September 2019, hed contacted L2G to 
say he was in financial difficulties and needed to set up a repayment arrangement. Hed 
offered to pay £100 per month. L2G said it would accept this offer for two months and then 
review the matter. But Mr A didnt then pay the amounts offered. In my view, this further 
proved the loan wasnt appropriate. 
So, if L2G had carried out the independent view of Mr As circumstances that I thought was 
needed for this loan, I thought L2G ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that     
Mr A would have been able to sustainably repay his loan. So, it should reasonably have 
concluded that it wasnt appropriate to lend to him and so I considered it was irresponsible to 
have done so. I thought L2G had treated Mr A unfairly when it agreed to lend to him, and 
subject to any further representations by Mr A or L2G I intended to say that I was satisfied 
that this aspect of Mr As complaint should be upheld and that L2G should put things right as 
shown below.  
Interest rate
Id noted that Mr A was also complaining about the amount of interest that L2G was 
charging. 
Where the evidence was incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it was here), 
I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I considered 
was most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
L2G had said that the interest rate was in line with the terms of the contract. Mr A had said 
that L2G had put the money in his account before he had even signed the agreement. I didnt know if that was the case. But I could see that L2Gs records noted the time of the 
application as 5.28pm on 5 June 2019 and its records showed Mr A passed its checks at 
6.22pm that day. So, I could see that it was unlikely that the money was lent immediately 
after the application had been completed.
Id also noted that the agreement required Mr A to type in his name and click the I accept 
button. It said that this would have the same effect as if he had signed the agreement in his 
handwriting. I didnt have any evidence that Mr A didnt do this nor any evidence about the 
time he did this or the time the money was sent to Mr As account. But I could see his name 
typed on the copy of the agreement wed received. Just above where Mr A had to type in his 
name, the agreement showed that it should be signed only if the signatory wanted to be 
bound by its terms. On the face of the agreement, above the signature box, I could see that 
the key terms were clearly set out including the APR and the interest rate of 207.6%. These 
were also set out in the pre-contract credit information. 
Overall, whilst it was difficult for me to know for certain whether Mr A was aware of the 
interest rate before hed received the loan, I couldnt safely conclude that there was enough 
evidence to show that he didnt know about it. So, on balance, and in all the circumstances 
of this complaint, I didnt find that L2G had done anything wrong in rejecting this aspect of  
Mr As complaint. 
Putting things right  what L2G needs to do
I understand that the loan hasnt been repaid. In line with this Services approach, Mr A 
shouldnt repay more than the capital amount of £750 he borrowed for his loan. 
If L2G has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so or chooses to 
do so and then take the steps listed below. If L2G isnt able to buy the debt back or chooses 
not to, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
1. Remove any interest and charges applied to Mr As account from when it was 
opened;
2. Treat all payments made by Mr A as payments towards the capital amount.
3. If Mr A has made payments above the capital amount, then these should be 
refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
4. If there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then L2G needs to treat Mr A sympathetically and fairly, which might include 
coming to a new arrangement about how best to repay this; and 
5. L2G should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file up to 
this point in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr A responded to my provisional decision to say that that he accepted it
L2G hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr A and L2G have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part 
of the complaint and require L2G to pay Mr A some compensation and take the steps as set 
out above under the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Loans 2 Go Limited, trading as Loans 2 Go, to put things right as Ive set out above 
under the heading Putting things right  what L2G needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman