DRN-3200755
The complaint
Mr R complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) provided poor service and he felt 
discriminated against when he visited his local branch.
What happened
Mr R says he visited his local NatWest branch in August 2020 to deposit funds. Mr R says 
he was told by a member of staff he couldnt enter the branch and was asked to move 
outside and was then directed to an automated service till, even though a cashier was 
available which was his preference. Mr R says during this time a member of NatWests staff 
acted aggressively towards him and he felt humiliated and discriminated against, as other 
customers were allowed to stand where he was told he couldnt, and they were served by a 
cashier. Mr R feels NatWest were using the Covid pandemic to justify the bad behaviour of 
its staff. 
Mr R is looking for an apology from NatWest and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
NatWest says all of its branches were adapting to a new way of working due to the Covid 
pandemic. NatWest says they werent discriminating against Mr R but simply trying to ensure 
the safety of its customers and staff at this difficult time. NatWest says although it may 
appear there is room inside the branch for more customers, that would depend on the type 
of transaction involved. NatWest dont feel any compensation is justified here. 
Mr R wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. While 
the investigator understood it would have been frustrating for Mr R given the issues with the 
automated  service till, she felt NatWests staff were simply trying to service its customers 
the best it could in the difficult circumstances, caused by the pandemic. The investigator 
didnt feel there was any evidence to suggest NatWest had deliberately discriminated 
against Mr R during its dealings with him on that day. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr R not to be able to use the cashier 
facilities as he had previously, and to be told where he must stand in line when it appeared 
that wasnt the case for other customers at the time.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if NatWest acted unfairly in its treatment of Mr 
R when he visited his local branch in August 2020.
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. Both the investigator and Mr R have provided a comprehensive 
account of what happened when Mr R visited the branch in August 2020, and while that has 
proved helpful I wont be commenting on every point that has been made, as I dont feel its 
necessary to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent 
considered everything Mr R has said  I have.
Mr Rs complaint centres around the issues he faced when he visited his local branch of 
NatWest in early August 2020. In particular Mr R feels a certain member of NatWests staff 
made him feel humiliated and he had been discriminated against. Mr R says he felt this way 
because the member of staff was rude to him, asking him to leave the branch and then on 
re-entering the branch was directed to use an automated service till, even though a cashier 
was available, which was his preference. Mr R says subsequently other customers were 
able to use the cashier and stand where he had been told he couldnt. 
Its Mr Rs view that NatWest are using Covid as an excuse to justify the bad behaviour of a 
member of its staff. Mr R says this member of staff is someone he had experienced 
problems with before and this was recognised by an Area Manager of NatWest. But this 
wasnt supported by that individual when questioned by this service  so I wont be 
commenting on that particular point any further here.
I understand the main points Mr R raises and theres no question this branch visit upset him. 
But its fair to say the backdrop of the pandemic meant that many businesses faced 
problems in balancing government advice on social distancing, with continuing to run their 
business to provide services to its customers. Thats not to say it would excuse banks like 
NatWest from remaining customer focussed, but here its not possible for me to say with any 
certainty what happened while Mr R was queuing at the branch that day, as having read 
both parties accounts of the events, they differ. 
Again, without trying to minimise the frustration Mr R says he felt here, its reasonable to say 
banks like NatWest were reacting on a day to day basis to ensure it adequately protected its 
customers and staff alike. This could have meant existing queuing practices were changed 
and its customers were directed to use other facilities in branch to minimise staff and 
customer interaction and Im satisfied this in all likelihood is what happened here. Mr R 
believes the CCTV footage should be available to show what happened, but unfortunately 
this isnt available, that said Im not persuaded the CCTV footage would have confirmed the 
poor attitude Mr R says the member of staff displayed  I say this as there would be no 
audio to accompany it. 
So while Mr R feels he has been poorly treated by NatWest and discriminated against, I 
cant see any evidence to support that and I am satisfied NatWest were in all likelihood, 
attempting to manage the social distancing guidance and at the same time meet the 
demands of its customers during challenging and unprecedented times. Even though such 
actions may have resulted in some inconvenience to Mr R, including him not being able to 
be served by a cashier as he wished and asked to wait outside the branch, thats not to say 
a compensation payment is always warranted and I dont think it is here.  
It follows, while Mr R will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of 
NatWest. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman