DRN-2734316
The complaint
Mr S and Ms D have complained about their home insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA) as it declined a claim they made when the ceiling of Mr Ss bedroom was affected 
by water damage, with part of it coming down.
What happened
During the night of 25 July 2020, Mr S found water coming through his bedroom ceiling, and 
the next day part of the ceiling came down. Mr S made a claim to RSA. There was some 
delay due to a mix-up in the property address which had occurred when Mr S arranged the 
cover. Mr S did some temporary repairs to the roof in the meantime, and in August 2020 
RSA sent an assessor to view the damage.
It was reported that the assessor felt the water had been coming in for some time. The 
assessor declined the claim. Mr S obtained a report. This said that the water outlet for the 
roof (which included a small flat section) needed widening. 
RSA noted the content of the report Mr S had provided and that the policy in place contains 
an exclusion for damage caused by poor design. But it maintained its decline on the basis 
the damage had been caused gradually. Mr S and Ms D complained to this service. 
  
Our investigator didnt feel RSA could fairly rely on the exclusion for poor design, and he 
didnt think the available evidence sufficiently showed Mr S and Ms D should have been 
aware that gradual damage was occurring. So he upheld the complaint, saying RSA should 
settle the claim and pay £100 compensation. 
RSA said it disagreed. It explained its focus was always on the gradual damage exclusion 
and that had been its real reason for declining the claim. It felt the photos did show staining 
so maintained its view that Mr S should have been aware damage was occurring before the 
ceiling became so damaged it collapsed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that where an insurer sees comment which suggests damage it is considering 
might have been caused by poor design, it might seek to decline the damage on the basis of 
a relevant policy exclusion. But its fair to say that an opinion alone in respect of poor design 
will not usually satisfy this service that any decline on the basis of that evidence is fair and 
reasonable. Well usually need the opinion to at least be supported by reasoning. But, in any 
event, I see RSA says its main reason for the decline was that, in its view, the damage had 
likely occurred gradually. 
I accept that the photos RSA saw, and that which its assessor took when viewing the 
property, show the ceiling had yellowed and/or was stained. However, RSAs report has not 
been made by the assessor which viewed the damage, and no explanation is given by the 
assessor or the author as to why they think the damage has been occurring gradually or, 
importantly, why they think Mr S should have noticed that. I havent seen any explanation 
which makes me think that staining of the ceiling and walls was likely present before the 
night of 25 July when Mr S found water coming through the ceiling. I think RSA hasnt shown 
sufficient evidence, on this occasion, to justify declining the claim based on reliance on the 
gradual cause exclusion.
Because of RSAs unfair decline, Mr S and Ms D have had to live with damage to their 
property. This has clearly been difficult for Mr S particularly, as it is his bedroom which is 
affected by the damage. Im satisfied that RSA should pay Mr S compensation.
Putting things right
I require RSA to:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mr S £100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to carry out the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman