DRN-3534900
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that it has been charged fees for not being PCI-DSS 
compliant by First Data Europe Limited trading as Clover, despite trying to send proof of 
compliance. Miss V, a company secretary of T, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
In September 2020, T was charged a fee for PCI-DSS non-compliance. Miss V didnt think 
this was right, as she couldnt upload the documents she needed to prove compliance to 
First Datas online portal. Her understanding was also that T wasnt required to fill out a 
questionnaire that First Data said was necessary, because of the nature of the business. 
Miss V raised a complaint about this on Ts behalf in October 2020. In January 2021, 
First Data responded and said that its online portal did have the ability to accept the 
documents Miss V needed to upload. But it accepted that its service had fallen short and that 
it could have contacted T about this sooner, so it agreed to refund £225 of the fees it had 
applied as a gesture of goodwill and to contact T to help with the issues it was facing.
Miss V wasnt happy about this though and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into this and didnt think it was fair that First Data had applied the fees between 
September 2020 and January 2021. They said that while the relevant documentation hadnt 
been uploaded to First Datas portal, T had repeatedly tried to provide this and hadnt been 
given any alternative method to do so, or support around this. So they felt that First Data 
should refund all the associated charges (minus the refund already given) from September 
2020 until January 2021 and pay 8% interest on this amount.
Initially Miss V didnt accept this on behalf of T as she expected all the charges to be 
refunded and was unhappy that First Data was now threatening to close Ts account. Our 
investigator clarified that we could only consider the complaint about charges up to 
January 2021 that First Data had already responded to. Any complaint about further 
charges, or the possible account closure would need to be dealt with separately.
First Data eventually responded to say that T was (and remained) PCI-DSS non-compliant 
and could have submitted the relevant documentation in a number of ways. It restated that T 
had been awarded a gesture of goodwill. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by clarifying that this decision here only covers Ts complaint about the charges 
applied between September 2020 and January 2021, as its these charges that First Datas 
final response letter of January 2021 covered. Our investigator has explained that First Data 
will need an opportunity to respond to any further complaint about charges applied since 
then and about the potential closure of Ts account.
Having looked at what happened here, I think that itd be fair and reasonable for First Data to 
refund all the charges applied during this time. I realise that Miss V hasnt submitted the 
relevant documentation about her PCI-DSS compliance using First Datas online portal in the 
way it would like, but shes clearly experienced some problems in doing so. Shes also 
clearly tried to prove Ts compliance a number of times and also asked First Data for its help 
with this matter. But that help wasnt forthcoming until January 2021 when it responded to 
her complaint.
Miss V has provided this service a certificate of compliance and a completed self-
assessment questionnaire from September 2020 which would seem to show that T was PCI-
DSS compliant during the relevant times here. So Im satisfied that her attempts to provide 
this to First Data were genuine. She may not have done this in exactly the way First Data 
wanted her to, but she told it why she couldnt do this and asked for its help. It was only in 
January 2021 that First Data offered to help with this. The fact it didnt do so until then 
means I dont think its fair that the charges were applied during this time.
So I think First Data should refund the charges applied between September 2020 and 
January 2021 along with adding 8% interest on top of this, for the period of time T has been 
without this money. But I make no findings on what has happened since then and nor does 
this decision automatically mean that T will be entitled to any future refund. First Data has 
the right to look at these issues before this service gets involved. Should we need to get 
involved, we then have to look at each case individually, on its own merits.
Putting things right
First Data Europe Limited trading as Clover should refund T the total of all PCI-DSS non-
compliance fees minus any amounts already refunded. It should also add 8% interest on top 
of this amount, payable from the date of the first charge, to the date the refund is made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in the way Ive described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman