DRN-4444985
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a savings endowment policy he had with Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (SLAC). He is unhappy that he was unable to surrender 
the policy when he wanted to because the policy was still assigned to his former lender. 
Mr W has said this was because SLAC had not made him aware that a letter from his former 
lender, which was intended to reassign the policy to him, contained an error which meant 
that it was not valid. 
What happened
It appears Mr W took out the savings endowment policy with SLAC in 1986 and later used it 
in combination with a mortgage endowment policy with SLAC as the repayment vehicle for 
his mortgage. Both of those policies were assigned to the mortgage lender. This meant that 
the policies could not be surrendered without the lenders permission. 
In 1999 Mr W contacted what was by that point his former lender and asked it to provide 
confirmation that it no longer held an interest in his two SLAC policies. He provided the 
policy numbers (incorrectly in the case of the one subject to this complaint) and asked that a 
copy be sent to SLAC.  The lender sent the requested letter, using the details that Mr W had 
provided. This meant that, while it correctly quoted the policy number for one of Mr Ws 
policies, it missed a digit off the policy number for the one subject to this complaint. As such, 
the policy was not reassigned.
Mr W has told us that in late 2020 he telephoned SLAC to find out how much the policy was 
worth. As he was considering gifting its value to a relative and wanted to be able to access 
the funds quickly, he asked for surrender forms to be sent to him. He was informed at this 
point the policy was assigned to his former lender. Mr W reverted to the former lender to 
discuss the situation; hes told us he asked it to send another letter to SLAC confirming it 
had no interest in the policy. The lender confirmed in its correspondence with Mr W that he 
contacted it several times from October 2021, but there were issues with calls being 
disconnected. As such, the lender didnt send SLAC a reassignment letter until 
16 May 2023.
It was not until 14 September 2022 that Mr W contacted SLAC again. He asked for 
surrender forms. The request was not actioned until 9 November 2022. SLAC also confirmed 
around that time the policy was still assigned to his former lender and explained what 
needed to happen in order for it to be able to pay a surrender value to him. 
Mr W meant to complain to SLAC in October 2022 about the assignment issue on this policy. 
However, he unfortunately provided the policy number for his mortgage endowment policy. 
SLAC responded to that complaint, at which time Mr W provided it with the correct policy 
number so that it could investigate the correct complaint. It didnt do so immediately.
SLAC responded in its letter of 24 April 2023. It explained that the assignment had not been 
removed from the policy because the policy number on the letter from the lender had been 
incorrect. As such, it was unable to remove the assignment. SLAC didnt consider it had 
done anything wrong in this regard, although it accepted that it could have told Mr W that the 
policy was still assigned earlier. As such, SLAC offered Mr W £50 for the inconvenience the 
matter had caused.
Mr W was not satisfied with SLACs response and referred the complaint to this service. He 
explained that he had intended to surrender the policy to gift to a relative for a deposit for a 
property purchase. Due to the problems with the assignment, he had been unable to do so 
and the relative had been unable to benefit from various government schemes and suffered 
because property prices had risen, and so they were unable to go ahead with their purchase.
One of our Investigators consider the complaint. He considered that SLAC should have done 
more when the incorrect assignment was sent to it in 1999 and he recommended SLAC 
increase the compensation payment by £100 for the inconvenience Mr W was put to due to 
the poor service. However, the Investigator highlighted that Mr W had been aware of the 
issue in 2020, but he didnt appear to have arranged for the lender to send the necessary 
letter to SLAC at that time. Overall, he was not persuaded the problem had caused the 
consequential losses Mr W had claimed for.
SLAC accepted the Investigators conclusions and paid the compensation.
Mr W didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. He provided information about the 
relatives property purchase a timeline for events from the spring of 2023 and what he had 
done about surrendering the policy. The loss caused because the policy could not be 
surrendered when he first contacted SLAC was reiterated. Mr W also questioned whether 
the missing numerical digit from the policy number had been the issue that meant it was not 
reassigned, or the lack of the two letters at the front of the policy number that had been 
being used more recently. The Investigator confirmed it had been the numerical digit 
missing, rather than the later introduced letters, that had been the issue. Mr W highlighted 
that he hadnt been given an explanation by SLAC as to why the reassignment hadnt been 
done and indicated that had he been, the issue would have been sorted out sooner. 
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change his conclusions and Mr W asked that the 
complaint was referred to an Ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 October 2023, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would firstly explain that an assignment is a matter between a policyholder and the 
third-party they are assigning rights to, in this case Mr Ws former lender. While the policy 
provider will make a note of assignments and reassignments on its records, it would not be 
for it to become involved in the arrangement between the assignee and assignor. This 
means that at the point Mr Ws policy was meant to have been reassigned, it would not have 
been normal industry practice for a life company to investigate and try to sort out an error 
made by either of those parties. 
I can understand that Mr W would have liked SLAC to have looked for an alternative policy 
the reassignment could have been meant for and contacted him and/or the lender to 
investigate whether a mistake had been made and try to assist in correcting it. However, that 
is not something that would have been expected of SLAC at the time. Quite simply, it was 
Mr W and the lenders responsibility to ensure the right information about the agreement was 
provided to SLAC. If it was not, it was not SLACs responsibility to remedy the situation. As 
such, I cant find that SLAC did anything wrong in 1999.
Mr W has been uncertain about when he contacted SLAC about surrendering the policy for 
the first time  either late 2020 or 2021. Given the lender has detailed that the first attempted 
contact it can find from Mr W recently was in the spring of 2021, I can only conclude the first contact with SLAC was in late 2020. He has confirmed that at that time he was told the 
policy was still assigned to the lender. As Ive said above, it was a matter for Mr W and the 
lender to sort out between them and it would appear that he was aware of that, as the next 
action he took about the policy appears to have been to attempt to contact the lender. So 
I cant find that SLAC was responsible for any delay after that time in the policy being 
reassigned.
While it appears that there was a slight delay in Mr W being provided with the documentation 
he needed to surrender the policy in 2022 and being reminded that the policy was still 
assigned, I dont consider that delayed him being able to surrender. I say this as at that point 
Mr W had already been aware of this situation for almost two years, and a surrender could 
not go ahead until the policy was reassigned, which didnt happen until May 2023.
SLAC has offered Mr W £50 compensation because it didnt tell him the policy remained 
assigned earlier than it did. In the circumstances, I wouldnt award more in this regard and 
so I can only endorse the offer that was made.
Mr W initially stated that he did not feel the situation had been fully understood, as it was 
hugely complex. Subsequently, Mr W stated that had SLAC informed him in 1999 that the 
assignment had not been removed, he could have rectified the situation at that time and 
none of the events that occurred in 2020/21 would have occurred. He commented that when 
he was trying to cash in the policy SLAC was unable to explain why the policy was still 
assigned. Mr W also said that from the time he found out about the assignment still being in 
place, he was in communication with the lender, but it took two years to get to the root of the 
problem.
Mr W went on to reiterate what he considered SLAC should have done in 1999 regarding 
searching for an alternative policy the incorrect policy number quoted could relate to and the 
contact he believes it should have made with him. As it didnt do these things, he maintained 
SLAC was responsible for financial losses, and he felt aggrieved that I had concluded the 
£50 compensation offered was adequate.
SLAC confirmed receipt of the provisional decision, but it made no comment on my 
conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed this file again in its entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision. 
Having done so, in light of there being no new evidence or comment from the parties, I have 
not been persuaded to change my conclusions. 
I note what Mr W thinks SLAC could have done in 1999, which would have prevented him 
having to get the policy reassigned at the time he wanted to surrender it. When reviewing a 
complaint I take into account regulation, guidance, the law and good industry practice. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, what Mr W thinks should have happened is not 
something that would have been expected from a life assurance provider at that time. As 
such, I cant find SLAC did anything wrong in 1999.My final decision
My decision is that I find the offer made by Sun Life Assurance of Canada (U.K.) Limited is 
appropriate in the circumstances and it should pay Mr W £50 in full and final settlement of 
the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman