DRN-3818394
The complaint
Mr M complains QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) unfairly declined to cover the damage following an 
escape of water on his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr M made a claim for water damage to areas of his ground floor following a water leak in 
his kitchen.
QIC said the damage had been caused by a gradual leak that had been ongoing for a 
significant period of time and the policy excludes this. It also said signs of the leak wouldve 
been evident to Mr M and he hadnt taken reasonable care in preventing the loss or damage 
to the property as per the conditions of his policy. 
Mr M disagrees and in summary said none of the damage was visible and the only area 
where you can see damage was behind large furniture, so couldnt be seen. He said as soon 
as he knew there was a problem, he had a plumber come to trace and access the leak and 
had it repaired to prevent further damage.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was persuaded from the evidence that the 
leak had occurred gradually, and this is excluded under the policy. She also felt some of the 
damage was visible.  Mr M didnt think this was fair and said his home is old, so the condition 
wouldnt have made him suspect anything.
 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me, an Ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case, there isnt a dispute that Mr M has had an escape of water. But QIC says it 
wont cover this claim because the escape of water occurred gradually, and this is excluded 
under the policy. So, Ive had to consider and decide whether the claim was fairly declined 
due to the policy exclusions, and if it was, whether this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr M also disagreed that he couldve known of the damage being caused. 
The exclusion in the policy under the escape of water or oil peril is:
We dont cover:
a. 
c. loss or damage caused by a gradual water or oil leak;
d. 
I have considered the report and photographs taken when QIC sent a surveyor to the 
property. The report in summary has said the leak has been long standing and spread from 
the kitchen into the hall, lounge, and diner. It says the partition walls and skirting abutting the 
kitchen are all showing signs of long-term rot.  And the kitchen, kitchen cupboard and hall 
door frames are all rotten. Ive not seen any evidence that the damage wasnt caused 
gradually, and rot isnt usually something that occurs suddenly.  Im satisfied the surveyor 
has determined long-term rot and this indicates a longstanding water leak. Im therefore 
persuaded that it was fair for QIC to decline cover under the buildings part of the policy 
under the exclusion of a gradual water leak. 
In addition to this QIC have applied the general condition of reasonable care and preventing 
loss that apply to all sections of the policy.  Under this condition if a claim is made and it 
decides that the loss, damage, liability, cost or expense that led to the claim was caused or 
made worse by the policyholder failing to meet their obligations under this clause, it may 
refuse to pay the claim, or it may reduce the amount of any payment it makes for the claim, 
pay only part of the claim, or it may cancel the policy.
I have carefully considered what Mr M has said about there being a large unit in the lounge 
so the warped skirting board and damage to the wall wasnt visible to him so he couldnt 
mitigate the damage. I dont dispute that a large unit was covering some of the damaged 
area, however having looked at the photographs I can see there were areas where the 
skirting boards are visible and show signs of damage  warping, and the condition of the 
kitchen door frame would suggest a potential issue too. Mr M has said due to age of his 
property built in the 1970s he wouldnt have looked at this and known there was a problem. 
I think on balance Mr M ought to have been reasonably aware of a potential issue in his 
property.
Overall, Im satisfied that QIC has fairly applied the terms and conditions of the policy and I 
wont be asking it to do anything further on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
22 December 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman