DRN-2914894
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC handed a chargeback claim and with the 
compensation amount offered to her by Barclays regarding this issue.
What happened
Miss K approached Barclays and asked them to reclaim money via chargeback for two 
transactions that shed made of approximately £2,000 and £1,600 respectively. Barclays 
made the chargeback claims and temporarily credited Miss Ks account with the claimed 
amounts whilst the chargeback claims were being processed.
However, Barclays later withdrew the £1,600 they had credited Miss K, because the 
chargeback claim for that amount had been unsuccessful. Miss K wasnt happy about this, 
especially as the withdrawal of the money had left her overdrawn, and because she felt that 
the chargeback claim should have been successful.
Barclays looked at Miss Ks complaint. They accepted that the chargeback claim should 
have been successful, and that it had failed because of their error. So, Barclays reimbursed 
the £1,600 back to Miss K and made a further payment of £100 to compensate Miss K for 
the inconvenience shed incurred.
Miss K didnt feel that Barclays response went far enough, so she referred her complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Barclays 
response to Miss Ks complaint, including the £100 compensation already paid, already 
represented a fair and reasonable outcome to what had happened. So, they didnt uphold 
Miss Ks complaint.
Miss K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In circumstances such as this - where a business has acknowledged that it made an error - 
what this service would expect would be that the business would take the necessary steps to 
correct that error and also, if appropriate, make a payment to fairly compensate the 
customer in question for any distress or inconvenience that customer may have incurred.
I think that Barclays have already done that here. Theyve acknowledged that the 
chargeback claim that they made on Miss Ks behalf should have been successful, and 
theyve credited the money claimed back to Miss Ks account as a result. In addition, 
Barclays have made a payment to Miss K of £100 to compensate her for any trouble and 
upset she might have experienced, including that her account was placed into an overdrawn 
position when Barclays first withdrew the money from her account.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered fair and reasonable by 
one party not considered as being as such by another party. But the £100 that Barclays have 
already paid does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what this 
service would expect, given the circumstances here.
So, while I can appreciate that Miss K might not feel that Barclays response to her complaint 
went far enough, Im satisfied that the response that Barclays have already issued to Miss K, 
including the reimbursement of the claimed money and the payment of £100 compensation, 
does represent a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any 
further action. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss K was wanting here, but I hope that she 
can understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman