DRN-4304190
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society suspended his credit card unreasonably 
after pursuing him for debt repayment. 
What happened
Nationwide wrote to Mr B about its concerns that he was in a state of persistent debt, and 
asked him to increase his monthly payment. Mr B said he asked Nationwide if he could 
increase his direct debit towards the outstanding debt, but was told this wasnt possible. 
Mr B paid £4,000 in January 2023 and £1,000 in March. Nationwide texted him on 8 March 
that his card would close at the end of March. He said Nationwide told him it was removing 
persistent debtors and closing his account because he hadn't made a formal arrangement. 
Mr B complained to Nationwide that he wouldnt have paid £5,000 just to lose his credit.
Mr B said he will be badly affected by the cancellation of his credit card. He has to travel for 
work and that might will not be possible without his card. He said if Nationwide would keep 
the card account open he would commit to paying above the minimum payment for the 
future. Otherwise he asked for the return of his payments, made at Nationwides behest.
Nationwide said it had suspended Mr Bs card until the full balance is repaid. It said it had 
been contacting him about persistent debt since July 2021 and as it hadnt received enough 
voluntary contributions by 6 January 2023 it had told him that he had three months to clear 
the balance, or his card would be suspended. Nationwide repaid to Mr B £4,606.96. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this response and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Nationwide told Mr B that 
he was in persistent debt on 7 July 2021. This letter was an 18-month notification letter. On 7 
April 2022, B sent Nationwide sent a 27-month notification letter and over 10 other letters. 
She said Nationwide sent a 36-month letter about the debt to Mr B on 6 January 2023.
The investigator said in Mr Bs call with Nationwide on 2 January 2023 it told him he could 
increase his direct debit or make one off payments. Mr B said hed tried this in the past, but 
these had failed. His payment took effect on 13 January 2023 but was too late to prevent the 
suspension of his card, and his direct debit was unchanged. She said Nationwide returned 
Mr Bs payments even though the debt remained. And she thought Mr B hadnt responded to 
his debt until month 36 and Nationwide acted in line with its policy about persistent debt. 
Mr B responded to the investigator, obviously I reject your findings. He hasnt given any 
other response, and his complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not sure which part of the investigators findings Mr B rejects, but I have looked carefully 
to see if Nationwide treated him fairly in pursuing his indebtedness and suspending his credit 
card, and so I have considered the rules banks must follow and the communications 
between the parties. 
There are rules governing how banks may deal with persistent indebtedness. Nationwide 
said the Financial Conduct Authoritys regulations require payments within 36 months to 
remove persistent debt. Banks are allowed to set their own procedures in relation to debt 
and Nationwides policy is in common with others we have seen, and the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys most recent regulations introduced in 2018. 
Nationwide sent Mr B periodic letters concerning his indebtedness, and more than 10 other 
letters advising him on how to deal with persistent debt. I have looked at copies of each of 
these letters and consider them to be how we would expect a bank to alert its customers 
about ongoing indebtedness, and they provided advice. 
Nationwide kept Mr B regularly informed of the situation, but I havent seen that Mr B 
responded to these communications until the end of the 36-month period set by Nationwide 
for dealing with the debt was reached. At that time he made a payment, but later than 
indicated, and Nationwide wrote to confirm his card would be suspended unless the full 
balance was paid in three months. Nationwide said Mr B did not make contact again until 15 
March 2023, though I can see he made another payment shortly before this. 
Nationwides actions in suspending Mr Bs credit card were in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Bs credit card agreement. 
I can see that Mr B felt that his payments of £5,000 should have been sufficient to prevent 
the suspension of his card. But they fell outside of the approach Nationwide adopts to 
persistent debt. Nationwide then refunded the payments Mr B made to his card even though 
the debt balance increased as a consequence. This dealt with some of Mr Bs complaint 
about how he had been treated and I think was fair to him.
As to Nationwides handling of Mr Bs card, I think it has dealt with him in accordance with 
the rules and its stated approach to persistent debt, and I think it has treated him fairly. It 
follows that I wont require Nationwide to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman