DRN-3763104
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) declined a claim 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T bought a single trip travel insurance policy in February 2022, provided by 
Admiral. The policy covered a trip between 1 and 8 July 2022, and it included Covid-19 
cover.
Mr and Mrs T went on a cruise on 1 July 2022. Half-way through the trip, they both 
contracted Covid-19 and had to self-isolate in their cabin. Due to requirements in the country 
in question, Mr and Mrs T had to continue self-isolating after the cruise and extend their trip. 
Admiral paid for the additional hotel costs and the new flights home. But Mr and Mrs T also 
want Admiral to pay for missing out on half of their holiday as they were confined in their 
cabin.
Admiral declined this part of Mr and Mrs Ts claim. It said that it had paid out the appropriate 
amounts for the additional costs Mr and Mrs T incurred. But there was no further cover under 
the policy for what Mr and Mrs T were claiming for.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He didnt think Admiral had done 
anything wrong when it declined the claim, as the circumstances Mr and Mrs T were 
claiming for werent covered under their policy. The investigator also said that Mr and Mrs T 
didnt cut short their trip  instead, their trip was extended. 
But the investigator said that the Cancelling or Cutting short your trip Covid-19 section of 
the policy did provide cover where you are unable to continue with a pre-booked excursion 
following your self-isolation as ordered by a relevant Government authority due to 
contracting Covid-19. So, he asked if this applied to Mr and Mrs T.
Mr and Mrs T said that they did have excursions planned for every day of the trip while they 
were self-isolating, and they were paid as part of the trip. But Mr and Mrs T say they expect 
Admiral to meet the full cost of half of their trip which they consider was unused, which 
would include the unused excursions.
Mr and Mrs T say they did cut short their trip, as being confined to a cabin cannot be 
considered as the trip. They also dont think the policy terms are clear as Page 1 of the 
policy schedule states that theres cover for Cutting short your trip due to Covid-19, but in 
reality theres only very limited cover. Mr and Mrs T dont think Admiral has acted fairly.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
I dont intend to set out the wording of the policy under the Covid-19 section for Cancelling 
or Cutting short your trip, as both parties to the complaint are aware of what the terms and 
conditions say.
Mr and Mrs T didnt cut short their trip because they didnt return home early. The trip was 
extended, and they made a successful claim on their policy for the additional costs they 
incurred because of that. I dont think the policy provides cover for what Mr and Mrs T are 
making a further claim for. And I dont think there are fair and reasonable grounds for me to 
ask Admiral to meet this part of their claim.
Mr and Mrs T say the policy schedule is misleading in terms of what Covid-19 cover the 
policy provides, and the cover is very limited. But I can see that the schedule includes 
Important information about cover for specific Covid-19 related events, which outlines the 
cover provided. I dont think this information is misleading or contradicts the information on 
the first page which says: Covid-19 Cancelling or Cutting short your trip Cover: Yes. Mr and 
Mrs T did have this cover.
Businesses are entitled to decide what risk theyre willing to accept in return for a premium 
paid. And its not for our service to tell a business how it should word its policy. In this 
complaint, Ive look at what happened in Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances, and if Admiral has 
acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, when it 
declined part of their claim. Having considered everything, I think it has done so, for the 
reasons I set out above.
That said, I can see that the policy does provide cover where you are unable to continue 
with a pre-booked excursion following your self-isolation as ordered by a relevant 
Government authority due to contracting Covid-19. If Mr and Mrs T are able to separate 
these costs out of their overall cruise costs, they can make a new claim to Admiral for these 
costs specifically.
While this isnt material to the outcome of this complaint, I note that Admiral has highlighted 
an exclusion for travel restrictions or quarantine imposed by any government or public 
authority. But this appears to only be relevant to situations such as a lockdown, rather than 
the requirement to self-isolate due to Covid-19, which is covered by the policy as above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman