DRN-2875707
The complaint
Mr L complains Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK (MBFS) provided an incorrect early 
settlement figure when he decided to end his finance agreement early. 
What happened
 In March 2018, Mr L entered into a 48 month personal contract plan (PCP) agreement with 
MBFS for the supply of a new car. The cash price of the car was over £49,500 and he was 
required to pay £527 per month.
 
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, in April 2020, Mr L applied for a three month deferral period. 
This was agreed by MBFS and it was due to start on 12 April 2020. However shortly after 
accepting it, on 29 April 2020, Mr L let MBFS know that it was no longer needed as his 
employment was secure. He asked for his direct debit to be re-instated so his monthly 
payments could be made. 
In July 2020, Mr L decided to end the agreement early by voluntary termination. He wanted 
to return the car and acquire another one. An early settlement quotation was requested from 
MBFS by the dealership on the behalf of Mr L. The quote said it was necessary to pay 
£30,013 to settle the account. 
Mr L proceeded to voluntarily terminate the agreement on the understanding that the value 
of the car would sufficiently settle the outstanding balance. A short time thereafter, he was 
told by MBFS he was required to pay arrears of £2,306. Worried about how this would 
impact on his credit file, Mr L contacted them to settle the account. He was told he owed 
£1,729 and he paid this amount by credit card.
 
Unhappy with being told he still owed money after settling the agreement, he complained to 
MBFS. They said as Mr L cancelled the deferral period, at the time the arrears notice was 
sent, the monthly instalments for April, May, June and July 2020 were not paid meaning it 
was owed as per the terms of the agreement. By the time Mr L contacted them to question 
this, the money was received from the dealership for the value of the car along with Julys 
instalment, so £576 was removed from the outstanding balance which was why Mr L was 
told he needed to pay £1,729.
 
Unhappy with their response, Mr L referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. He concluded although the April, May and June 
payments were owed by Mr L, this hadnt been included in the early settlement quotation 
meaning he had been given wrong information. He believed Mr L had been inconvenienced 
as a result and recommended MBFS pay £150 compensation.
MBFS disagreed, in summary they said the three instalments were always owed by Mr L and 
he was aware of this. Although they accepted they couldve been more clear about the 
arrears owed, they didnt believe £150 compensation was fair as this amount of money was 
always owed by Mr L.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) is the relevant law that applies here as it covers the 
early settlement of credit agreements. 
Broadly speaking, MBFS accept the three payments (April to June 2020) werent included in 
the early settlement quotation and theyve said they couldve been clearer about this. 
Ive reviewed the early settlement quotation document that was generated in July 2020. 
Having done so, I can see it says Mr L must pay £30,013 to settle the account. I also says, 
The Settlement Quotation has been calculated after taking into account that all payments 
due up to and including 05/08/2020 are paid in full.
While this indicates that all payments owed under the agreement, up to August 2020, would 
need to be paid, it doesnt outline what arrears, if any, were on the account. I believe its 
reasonable to expect if a request is made for an early settlement quotation to end the 
finance agreement, this is calculated correctly and takes into account any arrears or any 
other monies owed. That would then allow the consumer, in this case Mr L, to make an 
informed decision as to whether or not they wish to end the agreement and what was 
required to do so. So I can understand Mr Ls upset that having believed the return of his car 
sufficiently settled the outstanding balance, he later received an arrears notice saying he 
owed further money. 
I dont think its fair for MBFS to say Mr L shouldve known more money was owed and he 
may have thought he wasnt required to pay the arrears. I say this because I can see he 
contacted them in April 2020 to say he didnt want to go ahead with the Covid-19 deferral 
period and he asked for his direct debits to be reinstated. This showed he knew he had to 
continue to meet the contractual monthly payments and he wanted to do so. However for 
whatever reason, his instructions werent followed by MBFS and no payments were taken 
between April and June 2020. Thereafter, he also said he thought the early settlement 
quotation included the arrears and for the reasons explained above, I think this was a 
reasonable expectation.
 
MBFS said there were two early settlement quotations raised. The quotation on 6 July 2020 
included the arrears however the deferral period was reversed on 7 July 2020 which 
generated a second quotation on 8 July which didnt include the arrears. They said due to 
the system being updated about the deferral period, this didnt allow sufficient time for the 
arrears to show meaning they werent taken into account at the time the early settlement 
quotation was requested on 8 July 2020. While I accept this may be the case, I note the 
deferral period wasnt cancelled until 7 July 2020 which was several weeks after Mr Ls 
request for them to do so on 29 April 2020. On balance, it would seem this delay by MBFS to 
update their records about the cancelled deferral period led to the incorrect settlement figure 
being quoted as the arrears werent factored in when requested.
While I appreciate Covid-19 is likely to have negatively impacted on MBFS operations, I 
believe they had a reasonable period of time to correctly update Mr Ls account. Had they 
done so, this situation wouldve been avoided. Taking everything into account, I believe there was a failing by MBFS. I believe they caused 
a delay in updating their system about the cancelled deferral period which meant they didnt 
clearly state what amount was required to settle Mr Ls account. So I now need to consider 
what they need to do to put things right. 
As per the terms of the agreement, the arrears on the account wouldve always needed to be 
paid by Mr L so it wouldnt be fair to ask MBFS to refund wholly or partially this amount but I 
do believe he should be compensated for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr L said had he known there was still an outstanding balance to pay he wouldve acted 
differently and perhaps entered into an agreement with another provider. I cant say with any 
certainty what Mr L wouldve done exactly but it would appear it was always his intention to 
end his agreement early. Therefore no matter what action he wouldve taken, he wouldve 
still been required to pay the arrears to settle the account early. However I accept this was a 
significant and unexpected amount of money he was required to pay in a lump sum and he 
didnt have the available funds to do so immediately. So I can understand why receiving an 
arrears notice and being chased for an outstanding balance, which he thought had been fully 
settled, would cause him worry. Concerned about the impact it could have on his credit file, I 
note Mr L said thats why he decided to pay it by credit card.  
He has also mentioned as the deferral period was showing as active, despite his request for 
it to be cancelled, he was refused credit in April 2020 however I cant say whether or not this 
was the reason for the declined credit. 
Given the circumstances, I agree with the investigators recommendation that MBFS should 
pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Additionally, I believe its fair to 
say if any adverse information has been recorded on Mr Ls credit file in relation to the 
payments for April, May and June 2020, these should be removed. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
To put things right, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited must:
-Remove any adverse information from Mr Ls credit file in relation to the payments 
owed for April, May and June 2020;
-Pay £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr L.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman