DRN-3665936
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) is charging interest on the 
outstanding balance on his credit card.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.  However, its important to highlight that Mr C has another complaint against 
Tesco which has already been considered by this service. Therefore, I wont be considering 
the outcome of that complaint in this decision. But I may refer to aspects of that complaint 
which overlap with Mr Cs new complaint. 
Mr Cs previous complaint was regarding a chargeback. While the bank went through 
the chargeback process, Mr Cs account was credited with temporary funds. The 
chargeback was unsuccessful due to the retailer already issuing a refund. As such, 
the temporary funds which were credited to Mr Cs account were removed leaving Mr 
C with £1,476.37 to re-pay on his credit card. 
Mr Cs complaint is that he is now being charged interest on this amount which he 
feels is unfair.
Mr C opened is credit card account in August 2019. Having reviewed the credit 
agreement and details of the promotional offer, (Mr C would have had to agree to 
before opening the account) I am satisfied at that time he was offered 0% interest for 
15 months as an introductory offer. So, the introductory offered would have expired in 
November 2020.
The disputed amount in question re-debited Mr Cs account on 15 October 2021. 
This was 11 months after the introductory offer had come to an end. As discussed 
above, after this date the account was subject to interest charges. I can see that Mr 
C had the benefit of the temporary funds. Therefore, I am satisfied there has been no 
error in regard to Tesco applying interest to the remaining balance on Mr Cs credit 
card. 
I can also see that Tesco offered Mr C a three-month interest free waiver to give him 
time to either arrange a payment or to transfer the balance elsewhere. Having 
reviewed the account statements, I am satisfied no interest was charged between 
November 2021 and January 2022.  In the circumstances, I think this was fair and 
reasonable.
Overall, Im satisfied that Tesco has treated Mr C fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman