DRN-4438953
The complaint
Miss B, who is represented by a third party, says Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
(Shop Direct), trading as Very, irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Miss B opened a shopping account with Shop Direct in September 2016. Her account limit 
was initially £250. It was then increased on six occasions between December 2016 and 
October 2018 when it reached £2,600. 
The account fell into arrears in August 2021 with the last payment being made to the 
account in September 2021. The account went into default in March 2022 and was 
transferred on to a third party in April 2022.
Miss B says that Shop Direct shouldnt have lent to her and that the loan became 
unsustainable for her, given that she couldnt keep up with the payments. 
Shop Direct says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss B  and each time 
when it increased her credit limit. 
In my provisional decision dated 23 October I explained why I wasnt intending to uphold this 
complaint. I set out an extract below:
When Miss B opened the account, Shop Direct has told us there were no signs of financial 
difficulties based on the checks it did. Miss B gave us some limited information from her 
credit report which doesnt show or suggest that it would have been unreasonable for 
Shop Direct not to have approved the account. I cant see that Shop Direct asked about 
Miss Bs sources of income at the time. Thats something that may have helped it begin to 
build a better picture of Miss Bs financial circumstances. But even if it had, at this stage I 
dont think it would have made a difference to its decision to grant the credit.
Looking at the series of credit limit increases Shop Direct gave Miss B, I agree that it would 
have been helpful for Shop Direct to have found out more about Miss Bs financial situation 
on each occasion so that it could verify her regular income and committed expenditure. But I 
dont think the information we have about Miss Bs financial situation at the time is enough 
for me to be able to find that had Shop Direct carried out additional proportionate checks, it 
would have found all these credit limit increases to be unsustainable.
Our adjudicator explained why he thought Shop Direct shouldnt have provided Miss B with 
any further increases in credit from April 2018 onwards. This was because Miss B was 
making repayments that were steadily increasing in size in terms of the minimum payment 
required - £114 in April 2018.  Shop Direct didnt agree. In particular it pointed out that 
Miss B only started getting into difficulty with her credit in 2020 and didnt record any arrears 
until 2021. It also said that Miss B appeared to have been managing her account well. Also, 
credit checks it ran a year earlier, in April 2017, had suggested she was receiving an annual 
income of around £28,000. 
Whilst I can see that Miss Bs account balance had increased steadily in line with the limit 
increases, I dont think that in itself is enough to show that her overall financial situation was 
deteriorating. Having carefully reviewed the bank statements shes given us, I can see that 
Miss B was receiving an income that was typically somewhere between £1,800 and £2,000 
each month. Ive noted her other credit commitments and can see that her Shop Direct 
account was the one where she had the largest balance. Whilst her expenditure exceeded 
her income in some months, this was not a worsening pattern. It looks to me that Miss B was 
able to continue repaying the account whilst also being able to meet other credit and daily 
expenses whilst also being left with sufficient disposable income. On the odd occasion that 
she used her overdraft, it was only minimally and for a short period of time. 
It follows that I currently dont consider that I can make a finding that Miss B was struggling 
with her account, either in April 2018 or when the last credit limit increase was granted in 
October 2018. Ive so far seen no other evidence or information to show or suggest that 
Miss B was getting into financial difficulty at around this time. So I also dont currently 
consider that had Shop Direct carried out additional proportionate checks, it likely would 
have found her credit limit increases to be unsustainable for her to manage. I say this having 
carefully reviewed all the information Miss B has sent us about her financial situation. 
So, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I currently dont think Shop Directs 
actions, first in opening the account and then in increasing the credit limits, would have 
caused Miss B to lose out. And Im not persuaded that further enquiries into Miss Bs 
financial circumstances would have been likely to lead Shop Direct to conclude that it 
should have taken a course of action that was significantly different to what it did. 
In summary, although I cant definitely say Shop Directs actions were necessarily 
appropriate in all respects, as things currently stand I wont be making any award as I 
dont think Miss B was caused any loss as a result.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision, although the third party representing 
Miss B has confirmed receiving it and that it was sent to Miss B to see if she wished to add 
anything. However, there has been no response within the time limit I have set.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Given that neither party has anything further to add, I see no reason to change the 
findings I set out in my provisional decision. I therefore dont consider that Shop Direct 
acted unfairly or unreasonably, either in granting the opening credit or the subsequent 
credit limit increases. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023. Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman