DRN-4146290
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T have complained that Lifesearch Partners Limited failed to cancel a direct 
debit.
What happened
Mrs T and Mr T took out a replacement Life insurance plan through Lifesearch in November 
2022. However as well as paying for their new plan they paid two premiums amounting to 
£103.08 on their previous policy. Mrs T and Mr T dont recall being advised to cancel this 
policy by the Lifesearch adviser. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld.  Mrs T and Mr T 
appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mrs T and Mr T will be disappointed by my 
decision, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following reasons:
Ive listened to the call that Mrs T had with the adviser on 8 November 2022. He told 
her that she would need to cancel her direct debit for her old policy. I appreciate that 
Mrs T may not recall this, but Im satisfied that the advice was correctly given.
Additionally Mrs T and Mr T were sent an email on 9 November 2022 containing 
details of their cover. It also advised: If this policy is to replace existing cover, then 
on commencement of this replacement cover you will need to inform the original 
insurance company that you are cancelling, and importantly you will need to cancel 
the existing direct debit mandate. LifeSearch cannot do this for you. Mrs T has said 
that the email wasnt received. She said that this was a busy time, nearing 
Christmas. However, I find that it is more likely than not that the email was sent. I 
see that Lifesearch had been given a correct email address, so Im not persuaded 
that there was an error on its part.
I do accept that there may have been a misunderstanding here, but Lifesearch cant 
cancel a customers direct debit and did inform Mrs T and Mr T that this was so. In 
all the circumstances I dont find that Lifesearch did anything wrong and therefore 
there is no basis for me to require it to take any action.
For completeness I would add that the original policy was live until cancelled, that is 
to say in the event of a claim, it would have paid out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman