DRN-3062404
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his claim under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr T purchased a boiler using his HSBC credit card. The boiler came with a 
10-year service plan and a 12 months installation warranty issued by the retailer.
In early 2020 Mr T experienced issues with the pressure and the thermostat. He tried to 
contact the retailer but was unable due to lockdown. Eventually he discovered that the 
retailer had gone out of business.
Mr T raised a chargeback claim with HSBC. HSBC said the claim was out of time. It also 
considered whether Mr T might have a claim under section 75 but said the grounds hadnt 
been made out.
Mr T wasnt happy with HSBCs response and complained to this service. He said the boiler 
had been supplied to him with a 10-year annual service with free repairs and the purchase 
price included not just the boiler but the service and the warranty. He said he hadnt received 
the services hed paid for, and that to have the boiler serviced going forwards was going to 
cost him £100 per year.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt any evidence that there 
was a fault with the boiler, so it wasnt reasonable to conclude that the boiler wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The investigator said hed looked at the invoice for 
the service plan, but the cost charged for the service plan was zero, so there was nothing to 
ask HSBC to refund.
Mr T didnt agree. He said the cost of the service plan wasnt zero and suggested that the 
cost of the boiler was £800 plus installation, and that the balance of what he paid was for the 
servicing over 10 years and the warranty. Mr T said he hadnt received the servicing part of 
the contract hed entered into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
I can see that HSBC initially considered Mr Ts claim under the chargeback provisions. The 
chargeback rules are set by the card providers and not by HSBC. The chargeback scheme 
is voluntary with no guarantee of success and there are strict time limits for making a claim. I 
can see that by the time Mr T asked HSBC to raise a chargeback, the time limits for making 
a chargeback claim had expired. This is because to use chargeback, it must be within 120 
days of the purchase.
HSBC advised Mr T that his claim was out of time. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think 
HSBC has rejected the chargeback claim unfairly.
Section 75
I can see that HSBC also reviewed Mr Ts complaint under section 75. In certain 
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit. In order to rely on section 75, the consumer must show that 
there has been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
In order to uphold Mr Ts complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach 
of contract. The relevant law requires goods to be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose 
and the point of supply. If Mr T can show that the boiler wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply, then a breach of contract will be established.
Mr T has raised issues about the service plan and the warranty for the boiler. The invoice for 
the purchase of the boiler show that there was no cost for either of these items. Theres no 
evidence that Mr T paid anything for these items so these cant be considered under section 
75. Ive taken account of what Mr T has said about the cost of the boiler and the cost of the 
other items, but this isnt evidenced by the invoice and Mr T hasnt provided any alternative 
evidence to substantiate what he says about this.
Mr T has also raised issues about the boiler itself  he said the pressure and thermostat 
were faulty. HSBC asked Mr T to provide an independent report and a quote for remedial 
work but I cant see that this was provided.
This service asked Mr T to provide evidence of the fault with the boiler, either photos, or a 
report from an engineer who examined the boiler. I cant see that anything has been 
provided.
In the absence of any evidence to show that there is a fault with the boiler, Im unable to 
conclude that the boiler wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It follows that I 
cant conclude that theres been a breach of contract.
Taking everything into account, Im not asking HSBC to do anything here. Theres no 
evidence that the service plan had a cost attributed to it, so even if I accept that the service 
plan is not going to be provided, I cant say that HSBC need to refund anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman