DRN-3732202
The complaint
Mr G complains that NewDay Ltd defaulted his account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr Gs account with NewDay was defaulted because he broke the terms of his agreement 
with them. 
Mr G entered into a payment arrangement with NewDay in April 2021 and they defaulted his 
account whilst he was in that payment arrangement.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their 
payments. By the time NewDay registered the default Mr G was more than three months in 
arrears as hed only been making token payments towards his balance. So, I think NewDay 
followed the guidance and were entitled to default the account.
Its normal for that to happen even when payments towards the plan are being made, as the 
terms of the agreement are still being breached and also because, the business have an 
obligation to report Mr Gs performance on his account accurately to the credit reference 
agencies, and because the business needed to have defaulted the account before they 
could take certain further action such as selling the account to a debt collection agency.
So, I dont think NewDay have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman