DRN-4295223
The complaint
Mr L complains that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) didnt honour the initial cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) that it set out in his retirement pack when he wanted to transfer his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits. He says Phoenix recalculated the value prior 
to the transfer and said it had previously made an error and the value reduced by around 
£21,000. He would like Phoenix to pay the original transfer value, compensate him for his 
distress and inconvenience, and pay his adviser for the additional fees it incurred.
What happened
Mr L had been a member of an OPS which he left in 1991. The scheme was wound up and 
subsequently the members had their benefits transferred into individual non profit deferred 
annuities (NPDAs) which were administered by Phoenix.
 
In June 2022 Mr L decided to transfer his plan to another provider so, on 16 June 2022 he 
requested a CETV. He was issued with a transfer pack  which noted the CETV of 
£138,644.11 was guaranteed until 16 September 2022. 
However because it took some time to get all the information required for the transfer, Mr Ls 
adviser asked Phoenix to confirm the minimum requirements (documents) to honour the 
CETV and what could be sent after its guarantee deadline. The adviser emailed Phoenix on 
12 September 2022 with copies of what it assumed were the relevant documents but 
unfortunately some of the forms had been completed incorrectly. These were eventually 
completed and sent to Phoenix on 25 October 2022. 
As its transfer requirements had now been met Phoenix recalculated the CETV and issued 
the figure, which was now £117,527.82, to Mr L on 10 November 2022. 
On 17 November 2022 Mr Ls adviser complained about the time taken to process the 
transfer and the significant fall in the CETV which subsequently occurred as a result. It also 
said the dates used to recalculate the value were incorrect but, in any case, the transfer 
pack had said the CETV was guaranteed if all the documentation was returned before the 
deadline. It wanted compensation for Mr Ls investment loss and for its time and efforts.
Phoenix said its original CETV was calculated incorrectly and offered both Mr L and his 
adviser £250 for the inconvenience this had caused. It explained that as the benefits were 
held in the form of a NPDA there was no investment loss to consider. It had simply 
incorrectly calculated the original CETV.  It provided the CETVs from January and June 
2019  which were £106,310.66 and £118,513.98 respectively  as evidence to support its 
position.
A subsequent response from Phoenix did accept that it had provided a sub standard level of 
service in respect of its communication and handling of the case. It increased its 
compensation offer to £1,000 for Mr L and agreed it would consider compensation for his 
adviser on production of its invoice.
But Mr L remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us. His adviser said that Phoenix 
should either honour the original CETV and proceed with the transfer immediately or it 
should pay the difference in transfer values to Mr L as a compensation payment so that it 
could then revisit its advice to see if the transfer was still suitable using the lower transfer 
amount.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said he thought Phoenixs offer was fair 
and reasonable. He made the following points in support of his decision:
He couldnt recommend that Phoenix paid Mr L a value he wasnt entitled to, and 
hed seen nothing to suggest the updated CETV calculation wasnt correct.
But Phoenix had unreasonably raised Mr Ls expectations of a higher CETV and the 
suitability of the transfer  so he thought it should pay compensation for that and 
thought the amount offered was appropriate in the circumstances.
And Phoenix had offered to cover the costs of any additional work Mr Ls adviser has 
to carry out  on the production of invoices. He thought this was reasonable as it 
wouldnt be fair for Mr L or his adviser to cover those additional costs. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said that in all his communications from Phoenix it said the transfer 
value was guaranteed and the possibility of fluctuating values was never mentioned. He also 
said Phoenix hadnt provided any evidence to support the idea that it provided an incorrect 
valuation, and thought it was more likely than not the lower valuation was due to the global 
financial position and that Phoenix had taken advantage of these conditions to reduce the 
CETV accordingly.
He said he wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to 
me to review.  
Mr L subsequently confirmed that his transfer did complete and provided further invoices 
from his adviser relating to the extra work involved in re-establishing suitability of the transfer 
recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, I think Phoenixs 
offer to resolve the matter is fair and reasonable. I know this outcome will disappoint Mr L 
and Ive seen the strength of his feelings throughout his submissions. I have some sympathy 
for the position in which hes ended up  so Ill explain my reasons.
Which CETV is correct and should be used?
Phoenix says when it carried out the original CETV calculation on 16 June 2022 it used an 
outdated and incorrect version of its calculator. It said when it re ran the calculation in 
November 2022 it realised the error it had made so it did two further calculations. It used the 
original calculation date of June and the recent date of November 2022. 
As the updated CETV was £117,527.82  compared to the figure of £109,901.05 which it 
ought to have been in June 2022, Phoenix thought it was fair and reasonable to allow Mr L 
to benefit from the higher value and not to be disadvantaged.
 
Such errors do sometimes unfortunately happen when it comes to calculating CETVs. 
Especially in cases like this where Mr L was originally a member of an OPS which had been 
wound up and the proceeds paid to Phoenix as a collection of NPDAs for each deferred member. In this instance, I think this was simply a genuine administrative error. And 
Phoenixs explanation for what happened doesnt seem unreasonable to me.
However, Mr L is right to say that Phoenix hasnt really demonstrated, through evidence of a 
breakdown of its calculation, how this error came to happen. Theres not really much 
evidence in the form of calculated figures to support its position here. 
But I think on balance, I accept what Phoenix is saying and I say that because it has 
provided two CETVs from 2019 of £106,310 and £118,513. The highest one is likely to have 
been the last calculation that was available before the effects of the global pandemic on 
market values and investments. Ive compared that with what Phoenix says are the correct 
CETVs from 2022 and I can see some correlation. It has to be remembered that these are 
non profit annuities so they wouldnt grow through the addition of bonuses, the value would 
simply reflect what cash fund would be required to provide the same benefits as those from 
the original OPS when capitalised. 
In this case I think the valuation that was originally calculated in June 2022 would appear to 
be inconsistent with all the other CETVs that have been provided, and I think its clear the 
originally quoted figure was a mistake. As Ive said previously, without the addition of 
bonuses  and during a time when global markets were subdued - it would be unlikely to see 
an increase of over £20,000 in the value of a CETV. And because the figure is so 
inconsistent with all the others, I dont think its unreasonable to look upon as more likely 
than not the result of an administrative error.
I know Mr L thinks the figure should be honoured as it was Phoenixs error and it had said 
the figure would be guaranteed in its transfer pack. And I have some sympathy for Mr L in 
that respect as the viability of a transfer and the income and tax free cash that he could 
expect were directly affected because of this error. But it wouldnt be fair for me to tell 
Phoenix to honour a figure that I believe to be incorrect and which significantly inflated the 
correct CETV.  That would put Mr L into a better position than he would now be in had 
Phoenix not made the error  which I dont believe is appropriate. 
And although Mr L is right to say that the transfer pack stated that the transfer value is 
guaranteed until 16 September 2022 I think the spirit of its statement only applied if the 
transfer value was correct. I dont think the value should be guaranteed if it is incorrect  
which in this case I believe it was. So although I think the CETV guarantee would have been 
honored if it was correct  as the revised value from November 2022 was - I dont think its 
fair to expect Phoenix to honour any guarantees around an incorrect figure which would 
again, in my view, put Mr L into a more advantageous position that he ought to have been 
following the transfer. 
Putting things right
Phoenixs offer and other compensation to consider 
Having concluded that Phoenix doesnt need to compensate Mr L by using the higher but 
incorrect CETV from June 2022, I have gone on to consider the compensation Mr L has been offered and the areas in which Phoenix didnt provide him with the standard of service 
it would have expected to.
Clearly Phoenix raised Mr Ls expectations of what he was going to receive here. The period 
from when he received the initial CETV to when he was advised of the corrected figure was 
around five months and I think the expectation of receiving the higher income and tax free 
cash for that length of time would have had a significant impact on Mr L. I can only imagine 
his disappointment when he realised his retirement income would be based on a fund that 
was around £20,000 lower than he expected. And Mr L would also have been made aware 
by his adviser that the recommendation to transfer might not be appropriate based on a 
CETV some 15% lower. 
He would have been told that his transfer might now not be viable. and that there might be 
additional costs to carry out a revised analysis of the transfer based on the new figures. I 
think this would have had an impact on Mr L too. I can understand his frustration and worry 
that the transfer might not now be suitable and that he would incur further costs just to find 
that out. I dont underestimate how stressful a time this would have been for Mr L. 
Phoenix ultimately realised the impact its errors and lack of service had on Mr L and offered 
him compensation of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience this caused. When taken 
overall I think this figure is at the higher end of the level I might have recommended, so I 
think its an appropriate offer from Phoenix. I understand the impact the matter has had on 
Mr L, but I dont think it warrants any additional compensatory award for the trouble and 
upset caused - using the guidelines we operate within.
 
But I am mindful that Mr Ls adviser had to undertake a fresh transfer analysis comparison 
on his behalf to test the viability of the transfer. The adviser isnt the complainant here so Im 
unable to consider any compensation request on his behalf. I note that Phoenix has agreed 
to reimburse some of his costs on production of an invoice, so thats a matter for them to 
discuss and agree upon. But I thought Mr L might have to bear some of these additional 
costs through no fault of his own and in that case Phoenix ought to be responsible for paying 
some of them. I asked Mr L to provide evidence of any additional adviser costs which Ive 
considered very carefully, but Ive also been provided with the original fee agreement that he 
signed. It noted that he agreed to pay a fixed fee for the transfer, and I can see that he 
ultimately paid less than that fixed fee because it completed using a lower CETV.
So I can only conclude that any additional costs that were incurred by the adviser werent 
passed onto Mr L and therefore I couldnt reasonably ask Phoenix to pay them to Mr L. As 
Ive said its for the adviser to discuss with Phoenix himself if he thinks its responsible for 
any additional costs he suffered.
My final decision
Phoenix Life Limited has already made an offer to pay £1,000 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Keith LawrenceOmbudsman