DRN-2971309
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a life and critical illness policy as 
she wanted it to be written in trust for her parents and has since found this isnt the case.
What happened
In February 2011, Miss D took out policy that provided her with life and critical illness cover 
which was arranged by Barclays. The policy provided £60,000 of cover over 25 years for a 
monthly premium of £25.10.
Miss D wanted to the policy to be written in trust for her parents and believed this had been 
done. But, when she queried this with the policy provider in 2021, she found that her policy 
wasnt in trust as the provider said that it hadnt received a completed trust document from 
Barclays when the policy was taken out.
Miss D complained to Barclays. She asked for compensation as the policy didnt give her 
what she wanted as it hadnt been set up correctly. She felt the policy had been mis-sold to 
her. 
Barclays apologised for the distress and inconvenience Miss D had been caused, and paid 
her £200 by way of compensation. It acknowledged that the policy should have been placed 
in trust. It said that feedback had been sent to the branch involved in the sale, and the 
provider had arranged for the relevant trust documentation to be sent to Miss D. However it 
said that it thought that Miss D had made her complaint about the policy being mis-sold too 
late.
Following correspondence with our investigator, Barclays looked further into whether the 
policy had been mis-sold to Miss D. But it didnt think this was the case because it matched 
the details Miss D had given to its adviser about the protection she wanted. Barclays 
acknowledged that it had been wrong to initially say that Miss Ds complaint had been made 
too late and apologised for this. It paid Miss D a further £100 to recognise the inconvenience 
this had caused.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that, at the time of the advice, Miss D had wanted a form of protection if she was 
diagnosed with a critical illness or in the event of premature death. The policy was 
recommended as it would provide Miss D with cover until her retirement age and was set at 
a level that Miss D felt would give her enough cover. The investigator said it was clear that 
an error had been made by not writing Miss Ds policy in trust as she wanted, but he said 
that Miss D now had the option to put this in place.
 
The investigator said that there had been some confusion in the way Barclays had 
investigated Miss Ds complaint, but he thought the £100 it had already paid her, along with 
the £200 for the error in not informing the policy provider that it was to be written in trust, was 
fair compensation.
Miss D didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that it will have been worrying for Miss D to learn that her policy hadnt been 
placed into trust for her parents as she wanted. Having reviewed the documentation 
completed at the time of the advice, I can see that this was something that was specifically 
discussed as part of her needs and requirements at that time.
Miss D was looking for a form of protection that would provide financial support should she 
suffer a critical illness. The recommendations letter refers to the life cover included and that 
this was desirable as the money could go to Miss Ds beneficiaries  her parents. The policy 
provided a level amount of cover of £60,000, which was noted as being sufficient for her, 
over a term of 25 years until her planned retirement age. So I think that this policy in itself 
matched what Miss D was looking for from the advice. 
However, Barclays has acknowledged the error in not arranging for the policy to be placed in 
trust. It has apologised for this and has paid Miss D £200 by way of compensation. 
I understand that Miss D would now be able to place her policy into trust with her policy 
provider, as she originally wanted. Although I do appreciate that this is something that 
Barclays should have undertaken for her at the time it arranged her policy, I consider that the 
£200 it has already paid fairly recognises the upset and inconvenience shes been caused 
by this. I dont think Barclays should be required to refund the premiums Miss D has paid. 
The policy has provided her with life and critical illness cover that would have paid out in the 
event of a valid claim.
Barclays has also acknowledged that it shouldnt have advised Miss D that her complaint 
about the policy being mis-sold had been made too late. This caused a delay in it beginning 
its investigation and providing a response to Miss D which could have been avoided. Again, 
it has apologised to Miss D for the confusion and inconvenience this caused her. It has paid 
her £100 to recognise this and I think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
Overall, I dont think Barclays should do anything further to resolve Miss Ds complaint. I 
understand that she has been sent the necessary documents to arrange to put her policy 
into trust, and Barclays has confirmed with the provider that it doesnt charge a fee for this. I 
leave it for Miss D to decide how she wants to proceed with her policy.
My final decision
My decision is that the compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC has already paid of £300 is 
fair. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman