DRN-2735112
The complaint
This complaint is about a consolidation re-mortgage Miss N took out on the advice and 
recommendation of a broker firm that was a representative of Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited (L&G). The process began in 2006 and completed early in 2007. 
Ms N, who has third-party representation, says the re-mortgage was unsuitable and 
therefore mis-sold.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 18 March 2021, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
Advising people to re-mortgage to consolidate existing debt isnt inherently unsuitable. It all 
depends on the grounds given for the argument that the advice was unsuitable, and the 
individuals circumstances and objectives at the time the advice was given. Hindsight cant 
be a factor here. I dont expect Miss N to know that, but I would expect her representative to 
know, given the number of similar cases it has referred to this service.
Weve actually had some difficulty establishing the grounds for the advice from 2007 being 
thought unsuitable. The representatives letter to L&G of 20 September 2019 only mentioned 
the inclusion of the wills and estates package, but by the time case came to us, L&G had 
already offered to settle that on the terms the representative had asked for. Ive looked at 
that offer and Im satisfied that its fair and in line with what I would award if no offer had 
been made.
In April 2020, in response to a request from our investigator for more details on the grounds 
for the complaint, Miss Ns representative sent us a copy of a letter to L&G dated 25 April 
2018 complaining about mortgage advice given in 2009. This letter mentioned the inclusion 
of a car loan in the consolidation, and citing a decision from a fellow ombudsman in a 
previous case on why consolidating a loan for a depreciating asset wasnt good advice. 
Im not sure how relevant or helpful that is to Miss Ns case; the point-of-sale documentation 
from the 2007 transaction recorded Miss N as having two loans to consolidate; but neither 
was for a car purchase. Its possible the letter from April 2018 that Miss Rs representative 
sent us in April 2020 relates to a different complaint about a later transaction, but Im not 
attaching any weight to it here.
It was only after our investigator had rejected the main thrust of the complaint that the 
representative offered new substantive reasons for believing the consolidation to have been 
unsuitable. On asking the case to be referred to an ombudsman, Miss Ns representative 
said, in summary, that she had ample surplus income and a low debt-to-income, hence she 
didnt need to consolidate. 
That argument wasnt part of the case when our investigator gave his view of the complaint; 
indeed, Im not entirely sure it was even part of the case when L&G issued its final response. 
However, I think I can fairly deal with it here as both parties will have the opportunity to 
comment on my findings before I finalise my decision.
I mentioned earlier that hindsight cant form part of my assessment of this complaint; here is 
where that is relevant. On first glance, it doesnt seem unreasonable to argue at a distance 
of more than ten years that Miss N didnt need to consolidate. But I can only go on what was 
said at the time the advice was given.
That takes me back to the point of sale documentation where it was recorded that Miss N 
was an experienced traveller, wanted to do more travelling but wasnt currently able to set 
aside as much money as she wished to each month to fund future trips. In my view, that 
demonstrated a desire, arguably a need, on Miss Ns part to reduce her outgoings so that 
she could save more towards funding her travel plans.
Overall, Im not persuaded, on the arguments and evidence Ive seen so far, that the advice 
to take out the consolidation mortgage in 2007 was unsuitable. 
Miss Ns representative responded to emphasise that the complaint it had submitted to us on 
her behalf was about happened in 2009, not 2007.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case started with us in November 2019 when Miss Ns representative sent us an initial 
bundle of documents, which included its letter to L&G of 20 September 2019, and L&Gs 
final response dated 11 October 2019. That final response addressed a complaint about the 
2007 transaction, and the bundle of documents L&G subsequently sent us related entirely to 
the 2007 transaction.
As I said in the provisional decision, its possible a separate complaint was made in 
May 2018 about a transaction L&G arranged in 2009. If that did happen, and Miss Ns 
representative wants us to consider it, we may be able to do so separately from this 
complaint. 
But first, wed need to see either a final response issued by L&G less than six months before 
any new separate complaint were set up; that seems unlikely if the complaint was made to 
L&G in 2018. Alternatively, if Miss Ns representative can provide written evidence that L&G 
acknowledged receiving a complaint in May 2018 but didnt then respond to it substantively, 
then we may still be able to look into it.
Getting back to the current complaint about the 2007 transaction, Ive considered afresh 
everything thats been said and provided. Having done so, Ive not been given  any reason to 
change my mind about how this complaint should be determined.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2021. 
Jeff ParringtonOmbudsman