DRN-2834514
The complaint
Mr D has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, hasnt provided sufficient 
compensation to rectify his breach of contract with his kitchen supplier.
What happened
Mr D and his partner had bought a property. This needed various renovations to enable 
them to move in comfortably. Mr D engaged a kitchen supplier to make and install a new 
kitchen as part of the works needed to his new home. 
It turned out that the kitchen didnt meet Mr Ds original specifications. He tried to resolve 
outstanding issues with the supplier but these didnt prove successful. He was advised to 
make a section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. As hed paid for the kitchen in 
part using his Halifax credit card, he did so.
Over detailed negotiations and correspondence with Halifax, Mr D received:
£480 for a report inspecting the kitchen and providing a quotation for the works now 
required;
£11,976 being the full costs of the quotation provided by the proposed new supplier;
£2,616.40 for fuel costs, removal of previous kitchen and proposed installation; 
A further £1,370.40 to reflect increased costs of the kitchen; and
£75 compensation for the misinformation provided by Halifax.
Mr D was unable to have a new kitchen installed as originally planned and wanted Halifax to 
meet further costs which he felt were consequential on the original breach of contract. 
Halifax refused to meet any further costs. They explained Mr D had accepted redress in full 
and final settlement. Therefore they felt they had no further liability to him.
Mr D brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. He specifically believed Halifax had 
misled him about what they would reimburse him for and refused to ever confirm how 
consequential losses were defined. He made detailed submissions in support of his 
complaint.
After reviewing the evidence, our investigator explained that he wouldnt be asking Halifax to 
do anything further. He felt it was fair to say that losses after a certain date werent 
foreseeable under the original breach. He therefore couldnt argue it was fair that Halifax 
meet the additional costs Mr D wished for them to meet. He appreciated complex issues 
were at the heart of this complaint. There had been delays in getting work completed to the 
kitchen but didnt believe this was Halifaxs responsibility.
Mr D disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint and 
provided further detailed submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
So, for example, Im aware Mr D has raised issues which have concerned him around how 
Halifax manages its section 75 complaints. Ive not looked at these separately as its up to 
any business to decide how they manage their customer service issues. However I can 
review whether this had a specific impact on Mr D because of his personal situation. Ive 
done that here.
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. This also reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im also aware of the detail contained in all of our investigators views of 11 January and 
23 April 2021. This covers what happened in detail. I wont be repeating all this information 
again but I have taken it into account.
Mr D provided detailed responses to all the views. Ive noted and reviewed these carefully in 
considering what I believe is the right outcome. Im aware Mr D has expressly asked for 
certain questions to be answered. I need to warn him Im only reviewing the issues here 
which have I believe a pertinent impact on the complaint. I have however read and 
considered all of the detail he provided to us.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mr D used his 
Halifax credit card to pay in part for the costs of a kitchen. He was hoping to have this 
installed about four years ago prior to moving into his new property. 
Its worth clarifying Im not deciding Halifaxs liability under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. We consider the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we decide cases 
by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires us to do. What Im deciding is 
whether Halifax did enough in considering Mr Ds complaint. And if they didnt, what else 
should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods that 
resulted in detriment then its fair to ask Halifax to put things right. Its worth stating that my 
role is not to penalise businesses for a breach of contract on its own.In this case theres no dispute there was a breach of contract. Mr Ds original kitchen cost 
£8.588.02. In total Halifax has paid Mr D more than £16,500 to rectify the breach and 
reimburse him for his losses. What I have to consider is whether Halifax has treated Mr D 
fairly or whether theres more they should now do.
Mr D had a quotation from a new supplier and Halifax reimbursed him based on that 
quotation. They also then reimbursed him further as that quotation increased. They also paid 
him to have the existing kitchen removed. All these were direct costs related to the breach of 
contract and I believe Halifax has acted fairly.
Mr D is convinced that he feels hes been disadvantaged by Halifaxs unwillingness to 
confirm what consequential losses would cover. There is no exhaustive list to provide Mr D 
which would confirm what types of losses would be included in that description. But I view 
this to mean losses which are a direct consequence of the breach of contract. I also point 
Mr D to my statements above. These cover what I consider when reviewing a complaint like 
this.
Im very aware that Mr D fell ill and this caused further delays in sorting out the kitchen. His 
partner was also working abroad. They felt understandably she had a key role in making 
decisions about the layout of the kitchen. However I dont believe either of these aspects are 
related to the original breach of contract. Mr D and his partner decided to buy a property 
which required substantial renovation before they were able to live in it. They committed their 
finances to various pieces of work. Mr D has said his partner was working overseas to 
ensure their finances could meet their house-related expenditure. I dont believe I could fairly 
say any of these costs were related to the original breach.
We also consider what a customer  Mr D in this case  has done to minimise his own 
losses. I appreciate his reticence to commit to further kitchen work. This is understandable 
after starting work which didnt come to fruition. But I dont believe it would be fair for him to 
continue to claim consequential losses, like travel and parking, rental and utility costs as he 
and his partner were unable to move into their new home.
I believe theres no evidence the delays were due to the original breach alone. I accept that 
was a contributory factor in delaying further kitchen work but I dont believe this was 
sufficient to ask Halifax to pay further towards Mr Ds costs.
Mr D has also asked Halifax to reimburse him for the emotional distress. I well appreciate 
how stressful this must have been but there is limited provision under section 75 for me to 
ask Halifax to compensate him. I believe they handled Mr Ds claim fairly and reimbursed 
him in a timely manner. 
Overall I dont believe it would be fair and reasonable to ask them to provide further redress. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman