DRN-3083758
The complaint
Mr V complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled a motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I include its employees and others insofar as I hold Admiral 
responsible for their acts and omissions. 
What happened
For the year from late April 2021, Mr V took out a car insurance policy to cover himself and a 
named driver. Admiral acted as insurer.
On 28 May 2021, Admiral wrote a letter asking Mr V to send in some documents within the 
next 7 days. Mr V received the letter but didnt respond.
On 4 June 2021, Admiral wrote a second letter. It said that unless it received the documents 
within 7 days, it would be unable to continue the cover. The second page of the letter gave a 
seven-day notice to cancel. Mr V received the letter but didnt respond.
On 11 June 2021, the seven days expired, and cover ceased. On 16 June 2021, Admiral 
wrote a letter confirming cancellation.
Mr V complained to Admiral. On 29 June 2021, Admiral wrote a final response turning down 
his complaint. Mr V brought the complaint to us without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that it 
was unfair of the insurer to cancel the policy in line with the policy terms.
Mr V disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He finds it extraordinary that the investigator thinks that there is an implicit duty to 
respond within 7 days for an urgent request for information.
In his view, the citation of their policy booklet (page 22) is not one that can / should 
be read without a fair time period implicit in the clause - and demanding a response 
within 7 or even 14 days, does not fall into the fair category.
He requests this be looked at again and tested against the reality of a busy person's 
life. The expectation of an immediate response (which is what he would categorise a 
request for information within 14 days), should be made clear from the outset of any 
deal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral set up the policy based on information provided by Mr V. I consider that it was 
reasonable for Admiral to ask for supporting documents about a month later.
Admirals policy terms included the following:
4. Cancelling your policy

Our cancellation rights
We can cancel your policy at any time by sending seven days notice in writing to 
your last known address if:
 you break any of the following General condition: 2, 3, 5, 9, 11, 14, 15, 17 or 18

 you fail to respond to written requests for information or documentation
Admirals policy terms also included the following:
17. Requests for information
You must respond to all requests for documentation during your period of 
insurance
You may be asked to provide:
 documents to confirm the details on your Motor Proposal Confirmation
 documents and other media relating to your vehicle or claim
 financial statements and utility bills
 receipts and invoices
 documents and other records to validate your claim
 Driving Licence information
Failure to supply this information when requested will result in your claim being 
refused and/or your policy being cancelled.
Together, the above terms provided that failure to provide information would result in  
cancellation on seven days notice.
In any event, I would expect an insurer to give seven days notice before a cancellation  
because cancellation has serious consequences for the policyholder. Those consequences 
include liability for driving without insurance (knowingly or not). The consequences also 
include difficulty and increased expense in getting future insurance.
I dont share Mr Vs view that seven days isnt long enough to be fair.
Admirals letter to Mr V in late May 2021 said it needed documents (including his V5 and 
driving licence). And it contained a deadline for response.
As Mr V didnt respond, I would expect the next letter to include a seven-day notice to 
cancel.
Admirals letter of 4 June included the following:
 Unless we receive all documents we requested within 7 days from the date of this 
letter, we will be unable to continue your insurance cover.
Im satisfied that this stated clearly the consequences if Mr V didnt respond within that 
deadline. That letter also included the following:
 According to General Condition 4 of Your Car Insurance Guide, this is your 
FORMAL 7 DAYS NOTICE OF CANCELLATION OF YOUR POLICY. Your policy 
will cancel from 00:01 hours on 11/06/2021, if we do not hear from you by this date
IMPORTANT: We must tell you that it is an offence under the Road Traffic Act to 
leave, use or allow your vehicle to be used on the Public Highway without first 
arranging for its insurance. If you do so you will be in contravention of the 
requirements of the Road Traffic Act and you will be subject to prosecution under this 
legislation
That was on the second page of the letter. Im satisfied that it was a clear seven-day notice 
to cancel. It was enough to tell Mr V that Admiral wouldnt insure him to drive from 11 June 
2021.
I would expect an insurer to confirm cancellation after it took effect on 11 June 2021 (a 
Friday). The letter of 16 June  2021 (a Wednesday) couldve been sent a few days earlier. 
But Admiral had already done enough to tell Mr V that it wouldnt insure him to drive from 11 
June 2021. So I dont hold Admiral responsible for the impact on Mr V when he realised on 
about 18 June 2021 that Admiral had cancelled his policy.
Overall I dont find that Admiral did anything wrong or treated Mr V unfairly. So I wont uphold 
this complaint and I wont direct Admiral to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman