DRN-2744021
The complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC told him incorrect information regarding a balance
transfer and how they administered his account.
What happened
Mr R says he telephoned Lloyds to enquire about a promotional balance transfer offer. He
says he was told that he would pay 0% interest on his balance transfer until June 2020. Mr R
says that the call handler explained that his monthly repayments would be allocated to the
earliest balance transfer expiry date. On this basis Mr R decided to transfer a balance from
another credit card. In the following months he made a number of other balance transfers on
different terms (4.94% interest) to the original balance transfer. One of the balance transfer
offers ended in July 2020.
In July 2020 there were two parts of the overall outstanding balance where the 0%
promotional interest rate had expired so Lloyds combined these two balances. The
combined balance had the same interest rate (18.54%).
Mr R complained to Lloyds. He said it was explained to him by Lloyds originally that his
monthly repayment would be allocated to the balance transfer which was due to finish first.
Mr R thought he wouldve already paid off the balance of the original transfer by June 2020
on this basis. He also objected to the combining of the balances from the first and second
transfers.
Lloyds couldnt trace the call Mr R was referring to. They took Mr R for his word and offered
him a goodwill gesture of £50 and offered a waiver of the interest on his account for two
months. But Lloyds said that the consumer credit agreement he signed, the terms and
conditions of the credit card and the monthly statements all show the correct allocation of
payments.
With regards to combining balances Lloyds said they combined the outstanding balances to
show the overall amount which was being charged at the standard rate of 18.54% and
theres no customer detriment as a result of this. Mr R declined Lloyds offer to resolve the
complaint and brought his complaint to our service as he wanted the 0% offer to be
extended for another year and a refund of the interest charged after the 0% rate expired.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. The investigator said that although Mr R
was told incorrect information initially, he received the correct information on the consumer
agreement, the terms and conditions and also the monthly statements. The investigator
summarised that he wouldve been aware of the correct allocation of his monthly
repayments. Mr R did not agree with the outcome and said he doesnt read his statements
so he didnt see the allocation of payments section. So he asked for his complaint to be
reviewed by an Ombudsman.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
As Lloyds dont disagree with Mr Rs recollection of what happened on the telephone call
then I need to consider whether Lloyds treated Mr R fairly and reasonable when trying to put
things right.
Mr R says he wouldnt have transferred the balances had he been told the correct
information originally. But the consumer credit agreement, the terms and conditions and his
monthly statements all showed the correct allocation of the monthly payments. These
documents showed that the outstanding balances with the highest interest will be paid first.
As Mr R had balance transfers which were being charged at 4.94% then the monthly
repayment would be allocated towards those outstanding balances before the 0% interest
rate.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys regulations (CONC 6.7.4.R) says a firm must first allocate
a repayment to the debt subject to the highest rate of interest (and then to the next highest
rate of interest and so on) for the outstanding balance on a credit card. Thats what Lloyds
did. They acted in accordance with industry regulations here.
Mr R says he does not read his statements so wasnt aware of the allocation of his
repayments. But I think it would be unfair to hold Lloyds responsible for Mr R not reading the
statements which held this information that they sent to him.
So I think that the offer of £50 is a fair reflection of the impact the incorrect information on the
initial phone call will have had on Mr R. Lloyds also offered to waive the interest on the
account which I believe is a reasonable step based on the circumstances.
Moving onto the second part of Mr Rs complaint  combining two outstanding balances after
the promotional period had ended. As our service cant tell a business how to display
outstanding balances on a statement, I can only look at the merits of his complaint to see if
the business has treated Mr R fair and reasonably here. I know Mr R is opposed to this
business practice but Im satisfied its reasonable for Lloyds to display the outstanding
balance as they currently do. I say this as it will show a Mr R the total outstanding balance
which is subject to interest at 18.54%. So it follows that I dont intend to ask Lloyds to do
anything further here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Mr Rs representative wanted to know when the two month interest period would 
be. Lloyds said that the two month interest free period can be set at any time - the interest 
can be waived retrospectively for two consecutive months, or whether he would like it 
implemented moving forward.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party added any further information for me to consider then nothing has changed 
my view and my final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional 
decision.  
I can confirm to Mr R he would need to contact Lloyds customer services team and they will 
arrange the two months free interest period for him either retrospectively or for two months 
from the date he contacts them.
My final decisionLloyds Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 and waive the interest for two months 
to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc should pay Mr R directly £50 and arrange to 
waive interest for two months on his credit card account when he contacts them. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman