DRN-3719106
The complaint
Mr M complains that esure Services Limited (esure) failed to renew his motor insurance 
policy, which resulted in his car being impounded when a named driver was pulled over by 
the police.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr M renewed his insurance policy with esure over the phone. A named 
driver, Ill refer to as B, was driving Mr Ms car on 24 February when he was pulled over by 
the police for having no insurance. The car was impounded and Mr M contacted esure to let 
it know what had happened. 
Mr M says he couldnt afford to pay for his car to be released and that it has now been 
disposed of. He says he works as a delivery driver and this has meant being on the verge of 
losing his job. Mr M also says the car was a gift from his late father and this has been 
upsetting for him and that B has been penalised unfairly. 
esure says the seizure notice Mr M supplied appeared to be edited, and it needed to see an 
unedited version. It says the police record shows B was driving unaccompanied with only a 
provisional licence. However, it accepts this was later confirmed by the police to be a 
mistake. esure paid Mr M £200 compensation. But it says it was his responsibility to collect 
his car before 5 March 2022 as confirmed in the impound letter. 
When he first called esure it says Mr M told its adviser he would collecting his car the 
following day. Although Mr M says he couldnt collect his car, it says he hasnt provided proof 
the car was disposed of. It doesnt think it is responsible for pay the market value of the 
vehicle in these circumstances. However, esure says it provided a letter of indemnity for B to 
show insurance was in place. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this outcome and decided to refer his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld his complaint in part. He didnt think esure was responsible for the 
car being disposed of. But he says a further £200 compensation is fair to acknowledge the 
considerable distress and inconvenience caused by esures mistake in failing to renew the 
policy correctly. 
esure didnt think this was fair. It accepts that its responsible for the car not being insured 
and for the police stop. But says it isnt clear why Mr M didnt collect his vehicle when he had 
told it he would. esure says he hasnt provided it with all the facts. And if hed told it he didnt 
have the funds to pay for the release of his vehicle it couldve paid him the release charge 
directly. esure maintains that £200 compensation is satisfactory for its mistake. 
Because it didnt agree with our investigator esure asked for an ombudsman to consider Mr 
Ms complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. Let me explain. 
It isnt disputed that Mr Ms insurance policy shouldve renewed in February 2022. esure 
confirms that it is at fault for this not being processed correctly. This is the reason that Mr 
Ms car was subsequently pulled over by the police when B was driving. B was unable to 
demonstrate there was a valid insurance policy in place, because of esures mistake, which 
resulted in the car being impounded. 
Mr M was provided with a notice from the police dated 25 February 2022. This explains that 
his car has been impounded and says the owner or registered keeper must remove the 
vehicle from the police pound before 5 May. 
The notice goes on to state:
If the vehicle has not been removed from police custody by the above date, it will be 
disposed of...Even if the offence and the seizure are disputed the vehicle must be reclaimed 
before 05/03/2022. 
esure says Mr M told it on 24 February 2022, the date his car was impounded, that he would 
be collecting his car the following day. From the notes esure has supplied Mr M didnt advise 
it that he wouldnt be able to release his car as he couldnt afford the charges. The records 
indicate he first mentioned this in an email dated 9 March. 
I note esures comments that it couldve arranged for funds to be provided to release the car, 
had it known this was an issue. 
In his email dated 9 March 2022 Mr M says:
To be honest with you, I only read the impound letter after sending it to your self as I was 
under the impression from prior phone calls that your company would be dealing with it.
Ive thought about Mr Ms comments here and whether it was reasonable to expect esure to 
be dealing with the collection of his car. The notice he received confirms he has to collect his 
car in person or appoint a nominated representative. It is also very clear that this needs to be 
done before 5 March 2022. I dont think it was reasonable for Mr M to expect esure would be 
retrieving his car, based on the notice he received. 
We asked esure if it had recordings of calls with Mr M. It says there were some calls with 
him, the purpose of which was to request information. But it says that these calls werent 
recorded.     
Based on what Ive seen, Mr M was given clear information on what he needed to do to have 
his car released. He admits to not reading this letter until he was asked to send it to esure. 
He sent this four days after the deadline set out in the police notice. I think a reasonable 
person would read this letter, given the significance of what had happened and the 
consequences of not following the instructions provided. 
I accept esure is solely to blame for the policy not being renewed as requested. But Id 
expect Mr M to act reasonably in these circumstances and mitigate the problem by following 
the instructions provided. If paying the impound fees was a problem, he couldve raised this with esure at an early stage or found some other way to obtain the funds. As it is, Mr M 
confirms he hadnt read the notice. And so, didnt understand what he needed to do to 
retrieve his car, or what the deadline was. I dont think esure is to blame for this or that its 
responsible if Mr Ms car has been disposed of.
I can see esure was initially concerned that B didnt have a full UK driving licence. This was 
later explained by the police officer who made the stop as an error on his part. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for esure to want to clarify this point. It also asked for an unedited version 
of the seizure notice. Again, I think this was reasonable so that it was clear what the stop 
was for. 
From the records provided esures advisers responded swiftly when communicating with Mr 
M. 
Having said that, the police stop was caused entirely by esures error. Ive thought about the 
impact this has had. 
Mr M describes how he and B felt like criminals, although they werent at fault. This was an 
upsetting experience for Mr M and he was caused significant inconvenience being without 
his car. He says he needs this for work and in providing lifts for his son. This matter meant 
he had to spend time communicating with esure and the police to arrange for documentation 
the business needed so B could avoid prosecution for driving without insurance.
In the circumstances I think the level of distress and inconvenience caused justifies a higher 
level of compensation than esure offered. I agree with our investigator that a total payment 
of £400 is fair. 
In summary, I think its reasonable that esure accepts it was to blame for Mr Ms car being 
seized. Its appropriate that it pays £400 compensation in total to acknowledge the distress 
and inconvenience caused. But I dont think esure is to blame for Mr M not retrieving his car. 
esure says it cant be sure this didnt happen, so it will cancel his policy from June 2022 
when he first made this request. I think this is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. esure Services Limited should:
pay a total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman