DRN-3139559
The complaint
Mr P says Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (118 118) irresponsibly lent to 
him. He says he was in a difficult position financially due to other lending and being in and 
out of work. He thinks that 118 118 should have seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about two high cost loans 118 118 provided to Mr P. His borrowing history 
is as follows:
Loan 1 was started on 13 June 2015. Mr P borrowed £1,000 and he was due to 
make 12 monthly repayments of £117.74. 
Loan 2 was started on 9 March 2016 and was partly a refinance of Loan 1. Mr P 
borrowed £1,423,68 and he was due to make 18 monthly repayments of £136.38. 
Mr P was due to repay a total of £1,412.88 for loan 1 and £2,454.84 for loan 2.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said that the checks were proportionate 
for loan 1, and the information 118 118 gathered before approving this loan showed that it 
was affordable. She thought that 118 118 couldve done more before approving loan 2 but 
even if it had done more in depth checks it still wouldve seen that loan 2 was affordable.  
Mr P, via a representative, disagreed. His representative said that he was overdrawn before 
the loans were started and he was regularly using another short-term lender. 
As Mr P disagreed and the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did 118 118, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would 
those checks have shown that Mr P wouldve been able to do so?
Did 118 118 act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that 118 118 did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P and that 
as a result he lost out, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 118 118 had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr P. In 
practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
118 118 has provided evidence to show that before lending the loans it asked Mr P about his 
income and expenditure and looked at some information from credit reference agencies. 
Based on those checks 118 118 thought it was fair to lend.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr P provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr P said he had had a monthly income of £1,350 and he had regular monthly outgoings of 
just under £500. So, it would have been reasonable for 118 118 to think that Mr P could 
afford the loan repayments. 
I dont disagree that, because of the time that Mr P had already been in debt, and the term of 
the new loan, that 118 118 probably should have done more detailed checks before 
approving loan 2. 
But having looked at all of the information provided Im not persuaded that it wouldnt have 
lent. I can see that Mr P did use his overdraft frequently and he had been using short term 
lending at times. But the amounts he used for this borrowing were modest and he hadnt had any problems repaying his loans at this time. And the income and expenditure amounts 
above arent too far away from what Mr Ps banks statements show. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely 118 118 was made aware of any 
other financial problems Mr P mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think its decision to lend for loans 1 and 2 were 
reasonable.
Ive also thought about whether 118 118 acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen 
any evidence that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman