DRN-2309426
The complaint
Mr S complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) unfairly restricted and then closed his current account. 
To put things right he wants TSB to reopen the account, reinstate his online access, and 
compensate him.
What happened
Mr S opened a current account with TSB in 2018. In June 2019, Mr S discovered TSB had 
restricted access to his account after hed unsuccessfully attempted an ATM transaction and 
was unable to login to his internet banking. Mr S phoned TSB and was told to go into branch 
with identification. 
The following day Mr S went into a TSB branch and was told he would be sent a letter about 
his account being closed. Mr S says he wasnt told why his account was being closed and 
was asked to provide proof of where his funds had come from. 
Mr S was flying out of the UK the following day and says he was due to return in 
September 2019.
Mr S says he used that account mainly for shopping, online purchases, transferring money 
between his and his friends accounts. He is upset that his account was closed without any 
warning or notice. 
Mr S complained to TSB about this matter. TSB looked into his complaint and said the 
actions it had taken were appropriate. TSB explained the account would be closed 
sixty-days from the review it did in June 2019. 
TSB also said Mr S may withdraw his remaining funds at one of its branches with valid 
identification. It also explained any funds in the account after closure would be sent to the 
address it holds for Mr S.   
Unhappy with this outcome Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators then looked into the matter. In summary they concluded: 
TSB has acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the current account by 
giving Mr S two months notice to close his account. 
As a regulated bank TSB has ongoing legal and regulatory obligations it must follow. 
Following any reviews, a bank may decide to end its banking relationship. And this 
isnt something this service would say is unfair given the obligations TSB has to 
adhere to. 
Mr S said our investigator had not reached a fair outcome to his complaint. He added that he 
was no longer living at the address where the cheque was posted out to him. And TSB didnt 
respond to his request to change his address on its systems. As a result Mr S says getting 
the cheque was a lengthy and complicated process. 
It follows this complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint. I know this will disappoint 
him, so Ill explain why. 
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which TSB and Mr S had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account. The terms go onto explain what those circumstances are. And 
having looked at the information given to me by TSB, Im satisfied it was entitled to close the 
account in the way that it has done. 
Ive considered Mr S would not have been in the country to receive TSBs letter which gave 
sixty days notice of closure. That is unfortunate, but TSB would not have known about Mr S 
travel plans - and this isnt something that would ordinarily stop a business from carrying out 
its business activities. In any case, TSB acted in line with terms and conditions of the 
account.  
Its also worth noting that all banks and building societies in the UK are strictly regulated and 
must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are 
also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That 
sometimes means banks and building societies need to restrict, or in some cases go as far 
as closing customers accounts.
I accept what happened would have caused Mr S some inconvenience and upset. But Mr S 
use of the account doesnt suggest he suffered any detriment by not having access to it - 
especially as he was travelling abroad for around three months the day after. And Mr S 
hasnt said he needed those funds whilst away. 
Problems with receiving the cheque
Mr S has said he filled in an online form to get his address changed. And this wasnt 
processed by TSB as he had to go to his old address to get his letters upon returning to the 
UK.  
Mr S didnt say anything about a change of address when referring his complaint to this 
service  so I think its likely this happened whilst he was abroad. Ive asked TSB to show 
me its address records for Mr S. I note there isnt any record of a new address being 
requested or added.  TSB have also explained the cheque it sent Mr S was cashed in mid-September 2019. 
Based on the information I have, I cant fairly determine if Mr S had asked TSB to change his 
address. But I dont think this makes much difference to my decision as the cheque seems to 
have been cashed around the time Mr S says he was returning to the UK. 
So, even if there was some delay with Mr S retrieving his cheque, I dont think it was enough 
for me to conclude TSB had caused Mr S enough trouble and upset that merits 
compensation.   
So, after weighing everything up, I wont be upholding Mr Ss complaint. It follows that Im 
not going to ask TSB to compensate Mr S for any trouble and upset this matter in its entirety 
may have caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman