DRN-3072312
The complaint
Ms M has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unreasonably refused 
to consider pre-authorising allergy testing for her dog under her pet policy.
What happened
Ms Ms dog had been scratching for some time and when Ms M saw a new vet in 2021 that 
vet wanted her dog to undergo allergy testing in May 2021. Ms M asked Red Sands to 
preauthorise the claim.
It said it couldnt do this because Ms M said her dog had been scratching for around 10 
months before she saw this vet in January 2021. Red Sands said that because Ms Ms 
policy only covered any condition for a year  that 365 days was up in March 2021, so it 
couldnt entertain any claim in May 2021.
Ms M remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
Red Sands had done anything wrong. Ms M then wanted an ombudsmans decision so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand and appreciate that Ms M will very disappointed with my decision but having 
done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Ms M bought her policy in December 2019 and renewed it in December 2020. Its an annual 
policy which means conditions are only covered for a year and thereafter that condition is 
then excluded from any cover.
I think Red Sands properly highlighted to Ms M in the policy documentation as the 
investigator explained more fully in her view. The policy says the following:
We will provide cover for;
All reasonable costs for treatment of your pet by a vet due to an accident, illness or 
disease up to the maximum benefit limit as specified in your schedule.
(Cover is provided for up to 365 days only from the day the condition is first noted by 
you or your vet, up to the amount specified in your policy limit.)
The relevant vet notes from Ms Ms previous vet show that on 27 December 2019 skin ok (o 
says scratching). And in the new vet notes on 7 January 2021, it says History - scratching 
ongoing for 10 months on the flank.  And Ive noted in the call recording between Ms M and 
Red Sands that Ms M also said her dog had been scratching for 10 months.
So, on this basis I dont think Red Sands did anything wrong in declining to look at Ms Ms 
pre-authorisation request.
Ms M mentioned that she couldnt bring her dog to the vet much earlier, due to the Covid 
lockdowns. However, like the investigator Im not persuaded this was the case. The Vet 
Association did provide clear guidelines for vets about how to assess issues remotely and 
indeed if warranted vets were carry physical examinations, throughout 2020.
I also dont consider Red Sands did anything wrong in then ensuring allergies and skin 
conditions were then excluded from Ms Ms cover as thats what its policy conditions provide. 
And its clear from the underwriting guidelines that Red Sands applied this exclusion fairly. 
As the investigator explained I cant share those guidelines with Ms M as they are 
commercially sensitive information and we publish our decisions. But its clear to me that Ms 
M wasnt singled out or treated differently by Red Sands to anyone else in the same 
circumstances.   
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman