DRN-4014033
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the advice she received from Origen Financial Services Limited 
(Origen) in connection with a preserved defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme. Mrs R says she was advised not to transfer to a personal pension arrangement and 
believes she has lost out as a result.
What happened
Mrs R approached Origen in 2019 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Mrs R 
received an enhanced transfer value from her DB scheme trustees and wanted advice  
paid for by the scheme  on what she should do.
In November 2019 Mrs R had a telephone conversation with Origen to discuss the fact-find 
document shed completed to gather information about her circumstances and objectives. In 
summary Mrs R was single, she was 59 years old, she was employed, she owned her own 
home with an outstanding mortgage of around £90,000, she owned three rental properties, 
which provided her with an income, she held money in cash but had no other investments 
and her objective was to start drawing one of her pensions at age 60 to allow her to reduce 
her working hours. Mrs R also completed an attitude to risk questionnaire, which deemed 
she was a moderate risk investor. 
On 22 November 2019, Origen advised Mrs R not to transfer her pension benefits into a 
personal pension arrangement. In summary the suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were:
Mrs R didnt need to draw an immediate income, so she could leave the pension 
running within the scheme. 
Remaining in the DB scheme met Mrs Rs priority for a secure income.
Mrs R was unsure of market conditions and was not an experienced investor to be 
taking a risk in the current climate
The DB scheme provided a safeguarded income, which along with Mrs Rs other 
pensions would provide a steady income to meet her expenses while not having to 
take any stock market risks.
In 2022 Mrs R complained to Origen about the advice she received. Mrs R was prompted to 
complain following DB pension transfer advice she received from a different business. Mrs R 
believes that a transfer out of her scheme wouldve been in her best interests.
Origen didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. In summary it said that the advice not to transfer 
was fully considered by the adviser at the time and it was satisfied after considering Mrs Rs 
circumstances that the advice to remain in the scheme was suitable. It said Mrs R didnt 
need any additional income and there was no need identified to warrant accepting any risk 
with her pension benefits at the time, especially considering Mrs R said she was 
uncomfortable with the current investment climate.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mrs R brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered things and they didnt uphold the complaint. In summary they said 
they felt the conclusion reached by Origen that it wasnt in Mrs Rs best interests to transfer 
out of her DB scheme was a reasonable one. They said Origens analysis supported the 
view that Mrs R was unlikely to be better off in retirement as a result of transferring and they 
were satisfied that Origen considered Mrs Rs circumstances, including her assets, liabilities 
and other pensions in arriving at its recommendation. They said that while they understand 
Mrs R disagrees with the advice, it wasnt Origens role to simply transact what she wanted 
but to provide advice on what it believed was in her best interests at the time.
They went on to say that while Mrs R had recently received advice from another business 
which she believes contradicts the advice she received from Origen, this didnt mean the 
advice not to transfer was unreasonable. They said they couldnt comment on the advice 
Mrs R had been given by the other business. Overall they said they didnt think Origen had 
acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Mrs R in providing its advice.
Mrs R disagrees. In summary she says she was keen to accept the enhanced transfer value 
provided by her DB scheme. Mrs R says she followed the advice not to transfer as she didnt 
know any better at the time. She says she has received advice to transfer another DB 
pension she has and as a result of this, she has now organised a transfer of this DB scheme 
because she believes it would be beneficial to do so. 
Mrs R says that she understands the stance the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) expects 
advisers to take and that a transfer away from a safeguarded scheme is not suitable. But 
she says there are circumstances in which it is suitable and she believes all of these apply to 
her  including the fact she has other sources of income and this DB scheme is small 
compared to her total income. Mrs R believes Origen has failed to act in her best interests or 
consider her circumstances in detail and says that its failure to do so has cost her £20,000.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
Mrs R made a further representation for my consideration. In addition to referring back to 
what she said before, in summary she added that her complaint is more about Origens 
failure to explore things in detail. She referred to the advice she has received elsewhere and 
says this is more detailed. She says that, had Origen carried out more detailed analysis it 
wouldve come to a different conclusion. Mrs R believes that because there was no detailed 
consideration of her circumstances, Origen is defaulting to the safe position of advising 
against the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Origen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to not uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The regulators position
The regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer 
from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Origen should have only considered a transfer 
if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Rs best interests.
Origens recommendation
I think the conclusion reached by Origen that transferring Mrs Rs DB scheme benefits was
not in her best interests, was reasonable in the circumstances. Mrs Rs DB scheme provided 
a guaranteed and escalating pension from age 65. And the information Origen recorded at 
the time and relied on, supports the view that it was highly unlikely Mrs R would be better off 
financially in retirement as a result of transferring. Specifically, the cost of purchasing 
equivalent benefits to Mrs Rs DB scheme was a little over £136,000, which was around 
£37,800 more than the transfer value being offered by the DB scheme trustees.
To try and achieve this wouldve required Mrs R to take investment risk with her pension 
benefits. And while Origens assessment of Mrs Rs attitude to risk was moderate, Mrs R 
indicated that her priority was for a guaranteed lifetime income. Furthermore it was recorded 
that Mrs R had no investment experience and she was concerned about the investment 
climate and how the markets might react to certain current events at the time. The advisers 
conclusion was that Mrs Rs DB schemes safety outweighed the need for risk. They said 
there was no need for Mrs R to take any investment risk with her pension because her 
retirement expenses could be met without doing so. I also note that in considering their 
advice, the adviser spoke about the fact that, while Mrs Rs plan was to keep working, her 
current contract was due to end shortly and she wasnt certain it would be renewed. 
So taking everything into account, I think Origens conclusion that it wasnt in Mrs Rs best 
interest to transfer out of her DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement was a 
reasonable one at the time.
I can see Mrs R believes that Origen did not carry out a detailed analysis of her particular 
circumstances at the time and says Origen is defaulting to the safe position of advising 
against the transfer. Mrs R has also referred to her more recent experience with another 
advice firm which she says was more detailed. I cant comment on the actions of another advice firm here  its not appropriate because this 
complaint is about Origen and the advice it gave to Mrs in 2019. But I disagree with Mrs Rs 
argument about Origens analysis. From what I can see I think Origens advice was based 
on Mrs Rs individual circumstances and objectives at the time and that it was sufficiently 
detailed for it to arrive at a recommendation. 
I say this because Mrs R completed a fact-find questionnaire, which captured her individual 
circumstances and requirements at the time. And this formed the basis of a telephone 
conversation with Origens adviser  a recording of which I have listened to. This call lasted 
around 45 minutes during which the adviser talked through in detail the information Mrs R 
provided. They also gathered more detail by questioning Mrs R about what shed recorded, 
they asked questions about Mrs Rs motivation for wanting to transfer and they asked what 
Mrs Rs retirement plans were. The adviser noted that Mrs Rs assets were well diversified, 
which could only come from a clear understanding of what Mrs R held. The suitability report 
was also clear about what the adviser had considered in giving their advice - this included 
the information about what Mrs Rs DB scheme would provide her with at retirement, her 
circumstances and plans for retirement, the options available to her and a summary of the 
financial analysis I referred to earlier on.
I understand that Mrs R disagrees with Origens advice and she believes she fits all of the 
circumstances which mean a transfer out of her DB scheme is suitable  including the fact 
she has other sources of income and her DB scheme is small compared to her total income.
But as Mrs R herself has pointed out, and as I outlined above, the regulators starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Origen should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Rs best 
interests. Im satisfied here that Origens advice was based on Mrs Rs individual 
circumstances and needs at the time and that having considered these, it deemed it wasnt 
in Mrs Rs best interests to transfer the benefits from her DB scheme to a personal pension 
arrangement. I think this was a reasonable conclusion for Origen to have reached in the 
circumstances.
I can see Mrs R has asked that if her circumstances were not appropriate for transfer, 
especially with the enhanced offer, then when would they be? And asks, what would have 
had to have been present for the transfer to have been recommended? But my role is not 
that of a financial adviser or to theorise over a set of circumstances which might mean a 
transfer out of DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement is suitable. My role is to 
determine, taking into account all relevant considerations, whether Origen has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in advising Mrs R not to transfer her DB scheme benefits. And for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it has.
Mrs R has also referred to the safeguarded benefits of her DB scheme and says because 
she is single, and she doesnt expect this to change, the spouses pension is of no value to 
her. And I accept that. But the reference to safeguarded benefits goes beyond death benefits 
- it also includes the guaranteed and escalating nature of the pension income it provides. A 
pension is designed to provide an income in retirement. And in giving advice, the priority for 
Origen was to make a recommendation concerning Mrs Rs retirement provision. Im 
satisfied this is what it did. I would not have expected for example Origen to have placed 
more weight on the different death benefits available to Mrs R through a personal pension 
arrangement over Mrs Rs security in retirement.
Finally I can see that Mrs R says Origens failure to act in her best interests means shes 
potentially lost out by £20,000  the amount of the enhancement to her transfer value offered 
at the time. I disagree that Mrs R has lost out, because the advice was not to transfer. But in 
any event, just because Mrs Rs transfer value might now be lower and she missed out on 
the enhancement to the value she was offered, doesnt mean Origens advice to retain her DB pension was unsuitable. As I have set out above, I think the conclusions reached by 
Origen that it was not in Mrs Rs best interests to transfer her DB scheme to a personal 
pension arrangement was reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think Origen acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here.
So while I know this will be disappointing for Mrs R, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont 
uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  so I make no award in 
Mrs Rs favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman