DRN-2826484
The complaint
Miss H complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card then quickly increased the credit limit.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said:  
Miss H applied for a credit card with Aqua and said she was employed, earning £30,000 and
lived at home with her parents. Aqua says it looked at Miss Hs credit file and approved the
application. A credit card in Miss Hs name was opened in May 2019 with a £450 credit limit.
In August 2019 Aqua increased the credit limit to £1,700. The next month, Aqua found Miss
H had entered a payment arrangement with another lender and reduced her credit limit to
£1,400.
Miss H complained and Aqua responded on 15 July 2020. Aqua said it shouldnt have
increased Miss Hs credit limit but didnt agree the original decision to open her credit card
was wrong. Aqua refunded interest and charges applied above the £450 limit. But Aqua also
said the decision to increase the credit limit was reasonable.
Miss H referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They
thought Aqua had dealt with the complaint fairly. Miss H asked to appeal, so her complaint
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to offer Miss H a credit card or increase the limit Aqua needed to
complete proportionate affordability checks so it could consider whether the credit was
affordable and sustainable. Aqua needed to think about whether repaying the debt was
sustainable and if it would cause difficulties or other adverse issues for Miss H.
Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete and its not the role of our service to
tell a lender how to assess an application. And the nature of proportionate checks can
change depending on a number of factors, focused on the specific circumstances of a
consumer. For example, the amount and cost of the credit, the borrowers financial history,
personal circumstances and any indications they may be vulnerable or suffering financial
difficulties are all things that can influence the checks a lender completes.
Aqua has sent us details of Miss Hs application. It shows she was living with parents,
employed with a declared income of £30,000 and had unsecured debts of over £28,000.
Miss H had no adverse credit recorded. Aqua offered Miss H a reasonably modest credit
limit of £450. In my view, the checks Aqua completed before approving the credit card were
proportionate to the type of credit being applied for and its decision to proceed was
reasonable.
Miss Hs credit card was opened in May 2019 with a limit of £450 and by July 2019 she
owed £438. In August 2019 Aqua says it reviewed Miss Hs account and decided to increase
her credit limit from £450 to £1,700. Ive considered whether Aquas decision to increase the
credit limit by £1,250 was reasonable in Miss Hs case.
Aqua has told us that before increasing Miss Hs credit limit it took her account history,
information from the credit reference agencies and the risk factors it uses. Aqua says its
decision to increase the credit limit was reasonable, based on what it knew about Miss H.
Aqua has pointed out that Miss Hs credit file didnt show a payment arrangement with
another lender until the month after it increased her credit limit, at which point it reduced it to
£1,400.
Whilst I can see Miss H had maintained her payments, I think its important to note the
account was open for under three months with no more than two payments having been
made before the limit was increased. That only gave a very limited amount of time for Aqua
to collect information about how Miss H managed her account. In addition, the increase from
£450 to £1,700 was substantial totalling £1,250. Given the level of increase, Id have
expected Aqua to consider whether the information it held on file was sufficient to assess
whether the level of debt it was proposing was sustainable.
Aqua has told us it took the information on Miss Hs credit file into account before it decided
to increase Miss Hs credit limit. But Aqua recorded that Miss H had £28,100 of unsecured
debt when she first applied and I can see its credit search found that had increased to
£32,153 in the month before the credit limit went up. Thats an increase in unsecured
borrowing of over £4,000 in around three months and also meant Miss H owed more than
her declared annual income. Even taking the £450 credit card debt Miss H acquired with
Aqua, that means she borrowed a further £3,500 from other sources. In my view, this
indicates Miss H was struggling with unsecured debt in the period before Aqua increased her
credit limit.
As Ive said above, Miss H had only had an Aqua card for a couple of months, the level of
limit increase was substantial and her credit report showed a sharp uptake in unsecured
borrowing within a relatively short period. Whilst I understand Aqua looked at risk indicators,
estimates of expenses and income as well as Miss Hs credit file, I think the information
available shouldve caused it to complete further checks.
The month after Aqua increased Miss Hs credit limit it found information on her credit file
that meant it took the decision to reduce it to £1,400. Miss H has told us that during this
period her unsecured borrowing was going up, her phone bill was very high and she has
found the increased debt on the Aqua card difficult to maintain. I note Aqua took the step of
closing Miss Hs credit card for future spending, which means the debt wont go back up.
When Aqua responded to Miss Hs complaint it said it shouldnt have given her a very large
credit limit increase and I agree. For the reasons Ive given above, I think Aqua shouldve
done more to check the new debt was sustainable and that Miss H could afford to repay it
before agreeing to proceed. Had it carried out more checks, I think Aqua wouldve decided
not to proceed with the credit limit increase. I agree with Miss H that Aqua appears to have
lent irresponsibly here.
Miss H has told us she feels the balance above the £450 original credit limit should be
written off, but I dont agree. Miss H did have the benefit of the money she spent, so I think
its reasonable that she repays it. But, I dont think it would be fair for Aqua to apply interest
and charges to the balance.For the reasons Ive given above, I intend to uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct Aqua to
settle as follows:
-Refund all intertest and charges applied to Miss Hs account above the £450 credit
limit and rework credit card account. Any refund due, should be applied to reduce the
outstanding balance
-Reduce Miss Hs credit limit to £450 and remove any adverse credit information from
her credit file relating to balances over this amount
-Any remaining balance above £450 should be administered as a separate account
and Miss H should be allowed to repay it without incurring any further interest or
charges. Information about any balance over £450 should not be reported to the 
credit reference agencies  
I asked Miss H and Aqua to respond with any additional comments or information they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Miss H also asked for a figure to 
confirm the interest refund she will receive if she accepts the decision.
Miss H responded and said that as Aqua lent irresponsibly it should write off the balance 
above £450. Aqua came back to us and said there are difficulties putting the settlement I set 
out in my decision in place. Aqua said it would normally consider a repayment plan before 
offering an interest free arrangement. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss H but I havent been persuaded to tell Aqua to write off the 
outstanding balance about £450. Whilst I agree Aqua lent irresponsibly, Ive reviewed the 
credit card statements and can see Miss H had the benefit of the funds spent. So I think its 
fair that Miss H repays the balance. But, as I said in my provisional decision, I dont agree 
that Aqua should continue to apply interest to the part of her credit card debt that it shouldnt 
have approved. 
Aqua confirmed the interest refund figure it will make if Miss H accepts and this information 
has been passed to her. Aqua also says there are some processing issues concerning how 
to administer part of Miss Hs debt on an interest free basis going forward. Whilst I 
understand the settlement in this case may not be in line with Aquas normal processing 
arrangements for its credit cards, it will need to work out a way forward to ensure no interest 
is applied to Miss Hs credit card debt above £450 if she accepts. If Aqua cant administer 
part of the credit card debt on an interest free basis, it has the option of administering the 
entire account in that way. Im not telling it to do that, but if the settlement isnt immediately 
compatible with the way it works, Aqua will need to put something in place that is at least as 
comprehensive as the settlement Ive set out. 
In much the same way, Im going to tell Aqua to amend Miss Hs credit file to remove any 
information it reports to the credit reference agencies on balances over £450. If Aqua doesnt 
have a mechanism in place to do that, it would be better to remove its entry from Miss Hs 
credit file altogether. 
I still think the settlement I set out in my provisional decision is the fairest way to resolve 
Miss Hs complaint. As I havent been persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision, Im going to proceed in line with the settlement I reached.   My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua to 
settle as follows: 
- Refund all intertest and charges applied to Miss Hs account above the £450 credit
limit and rework credit card account. Any refund due, should be applied to reduce the
outstanding balance
- Reduce Miss Hs credit limit to £450 and remove any adverse credit information from
her credit file relating to balances over this amount
- Any remaining balance above £450 should be administered as a separate account
and Miss H should be allowed to repay it without incurring any further interest or
charges. Information about any balance over £450 should not be reported to the 
credit reference agencies  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman