DRN-3843271
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as S, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd (trading 
as Cashplus) didnt do enough to prevent S losing out financially as a result of an authorised 
push payment fraud.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at 
length here. Briefly, in early 2021, S was evaluating a number of used construction 
machinery suppliers for the purchase of a crane. They were contacted by a company which I 
will refer to E. Then followed a series of correspondence between S and E. In February 2021 
S agreed to buy a crane from E and made a payment of about £26,000 as a deposit for the 
purchase. The balance was to be paid upon delivery of the equipment. The crane did not 
arrive. The seller gave various excuses for the delay but ultimately the crane was never 
delivered. S says the seller was a fraudulent person. 
S initially complained to National Westminster Bank Plc as the money was paid into a 
NatWest account. However, NatWest confirmed that it merely provided banking services to 
Cashplus and the complaint should be directed against Cashplus as the payment went to a 
customer of Cashplus. 
Cashplus considered the complaint and said that it made no error. It said that it wasnt 
notified of the scam until October 2021 and unfortunately by that time no funds remained in 
the beneficiarys account. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it could not be upheld. 
They said:
Our service is governed by certain rules which can be found in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP). These set out, 
amongst other things, who can bring a complaint to us, against which business, and about 
what.
Under our rules, we are able to consider a complaint from the victims of authorised push 
payment scams about the payment service provider that received the funds (in this case 
Cashplus). However, we are only able to consider events complained about that happened 
on or after 31 January 2019.
S has complained that Cashplus allowed a fraudster to open an account in the first place, 
and latter failed to prevent the scam from happening. 
The relevant beneficiarys account was opened before 31 January 2019 and therefore we 
are unable to consider that part of the complaint. However, we can consider Ss complaint 
that Cashplus failed to spot and prevent the scam from happening following Ss payment, as 
that happened in 2021.
Having considered that part of the complaint, the investigator was of the view that it could 
not be upheld. They noted that when the amount was received from S into Cashplus 
customers account, Cashplus intervened and questioned their customer about the payment. 
The customer was able to provide adequate evidence to the satisfaction of Cashplus that the 
payment was meant for them. Therefore, the investigator concluded that Cashplus could not 
have done more.
S did not agree. They said that it isnt acceptable that Cashplus could simply rely on their 
customer providing falsified documents. They said that Cashplus ought to have contacted S 
and made them aware that its customer doesnt usually receive large payments, and so S 
should have been made to explain on what basis they were paying such an amount. They 
feel if Cashplus had done that the scam would have come to light. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cashplus has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate this 
complaint. I am limited as to how much I can share because it relates to a third-party 
account. But Id like to assure that Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my 
decision.
Having reviewed the submissions, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator 
essentially for the same reasons. 
This appears to be a sophisticated scam where S were tricked into believing that they were 
dealing with a genuine supplier. I am sorry for the loss this caused to S but what I need to 
decide here is whether Cashplus ought to have done more to prevent Ss loss.
As noted by the investigator, Cashplus did question their customer about the payment from 
S but they were able to provide documentation to show that the payment was intended for 
them.
S says it isnt acceptable that Cashplus could simply rely on the documentation provided by 
its customer. 
When we asked the director of S why they believed that the supplier was genuine, they 
explained that they had several communications with the supplier including various phone 
calls. They said that the supplier provided detailed specifications of the used cranes they 
were purportedly selling. The supplier also had a very elaborate website with a large 
selection of used construction machinery for sale. S further said that in the past they had 
purchased a number of machinery including used trucks, cranes and inventory from foreign 
suppliers and this followed similar procedure.
All of this suggests to me that Cashpluss customer would have been able to give a credible 
explanation to Cashplus about the receipt of the payment from S, and indeed they appear to 
have done so.
Thus, the situation was that the payment came from a legitimate company (S). The account 
number and payee name matched the payment instruction. The recipient was able to 
produce (their own) invoice and other documents and there was nothing suspicious about 
them as such. The payment was meant for the purchase of a crane. When the account 
opened a while back Cashpluss customer had said that they were in the business of construction machinery. So, a payment towards purchase of a crane wasnt suspicious in 
itself. And whilst the payment from S was higher than the usual account activity, the account 
was fairly busy with incoming and outgoing payments. Also, there had not been any prior 
notifications or warnings that the beneficiary account was being used to misappropriate 
funds. 
Taking all of the above into account, I can see why Cashplus was satisfied with the 
explanation given by their customer.
S says that Cashplus should have contacted them when it was verifying the payment with 
their customer.  But a bank would usually take steps such as contacting the payer (via their 
bank) if it finds the transaction suspicious and needed further investigation. But in this 
instance the Cashplus didnt find the transaction suspicious. So, I am unable to conclude 
that Cashplus made an error in not contacting S. 
As I said at the outset, it is clear that S had fallen victim to a sophisticated and callous scam. 
And I am very sorry that they had lost a considerable sum of money as a result. However, I 
am not persuaded that there was a failure on part of Cashplus that resulted in a financial 
loss to S. Therefore, I am unable to conclude that it reimburses Ss loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman