DRN-1639781
The complaint
Miss M complains she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Although 
the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Miss M took out a store card in 1996. At the same time, she was sold a PPI policy.
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit equivalent to 15% of the store cards outstanding 
balance if Miss M was unable to work due to ill-health, an accident or if she lost her job. This 
would continue until either Miss M returned to work or the balance was cleared. The total 
PPI premiums charged to Miss Ms account were £4.57.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. Miss M didnt agree with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale of the PPI took place 24 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats more 
likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have 
told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Miss M that the PPI was optional. 
Miss M most likely applied for the store card during a visit to a store.
Miss M cant recall agreeing to take out PPI with the card.
AXA has shown us a copy of the original store card application form signed by Miss M. The 
application was completed by hand. I cant be sure who completed the form, but I can see 
that the credit agreement was completed with personal details including Miss Ms name, 
address and telephone number. So even if it were filled in by a member of staff, I think it 
must have been completed during a conversation with Miss M, before being passed to her to 
check and sign.
I can see there is a section about PPI on the application form. Although the quality of the 
copy is poor, I can see the box to accept PPI has been ticked.After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Miss M didnt 
have to take out the PPI to obtain the store card and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant remember this after so many years.
I dont think AXA advised Miss M to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Miss M clear information so 
that she could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it 
doesnt look like the cost was made clear. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint.      
I next need to decide whether or not Miss M would have changed her mind about buying the 
policy if she had been given better or clearer information. I cant say she would have done.   
I say this because:
Miss M was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of the sale. So, shed 
have been able to make a claim if she needed to.
If Miss M couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit every 
month until the balance was cleared, or she returned to work. And it wouldve paid the same 
benefit if Miss M lost her job.
Miss M would have received some sick pay for up to three months from her employer if she 
became too unwell to work. But the PPI could have paid a benefit in addition to her sick pay. 
And potentially it could have paid a benefit for longer than her full sick pay would last. So, I 
still think Miss M could have found the policy useful, particularly if she had been unable to 
work for a prolonged period.
Miss M has said she could have relied on family and friends to help her if she could not 
work. But this kind of help isnt guaranteed, and it could be that Miss Ms friends and family 
might not have been in a position to help when she needed it most.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Miss M wasnt affected by these. 
For instance, Miss M has told us she didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the 
sale which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Miss M was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Miss M had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead and bought it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman