DRN-3501780
The complaint
Mrs B complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled her claim on her home 
insurance.
What happened
The events surrounding this complaint are well known to both sides, so I will provide only a 
brief summary here.
Mrs B first raised a claim for suspected subsidence in around 1991 with her previous 
insurer. Since then she has raised various claims to try and resolve matters.
In 2000 she moved her insurance to a company that is now Aviva. In 2001 she raised 
a new claim with them about cracks at the property that were worsening. This was 
eventually confirmed as subsidence and some repairs were carried out. 
In 2009 another claim was made as the cracks were worsening again. Aviva 
identified that the problem was being caused by defective drainage and accepted the 
claim. Some repairs and underpinning took place.
In 2014 Aviva confirmed that it was satisfied it had met its liability and all outstanding 
problems were repudiated under the policy. Mrs B didnt agree and brought a 
complaint to this service about issues she considered to be outstanding. 
In 2016 this service made a decision on a complaint about the claim and didnt 
uphold it. 
In 2018 Aviva re-opened Mrs Bs claim and reassessed it. Its experts report 
concluded that there was subsidence and identified the location of the soakaway as a 
possible cause.
Between 2018 and when Mrs B brought her complaint to this service in August 2021, 
there have been further problems with repairs. Including problems with the lack of 
damp proofing of the kitchen floor and a further defective pipe that was found close to 
the area. Mrs B was unhappy with how the whole claim had been handled and made 
a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Aviva should 
pay £750 compensation and disturbance allowance for the time Mrs B was without a 
working kitchen. Mrs B didnt think this was enough and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
In August 2022 I wrote to both sides to explain my provisional findings. In which I said I 
agreed with our investigators compensation award and that Aviva should pay disturbance 
allowance for the time Mrs B was without a kitchen. I asked Aviva to confirm the dates that 
this applied to, and confirmed the amount at £3,300 based on the dates provided by Mrs B.
Aviva hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
Mrs B responded to say she doesnt agree with my findings. In summary she has said she 
thinks the compensation award should be much closer to £5,000 as the claim has caused 
her significant distress and has impacted her health and wellbeing.
Ive considered all the comments Mrs B has provided in response to my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scope of this complaint
As already explained, this service can only look at issues that have arisen in this complaint 
since 2015, as this is six years before the complaint was brought to the service. I understand 
this claim, and complaint, has been ongoing for many years. But as part of this decision I will 
only consider issues that have arisen after this date.
Further, our service has already considered a complaint about this claim, and another 
ombudsman issued a final decision on this in 2016. So I wont consider any issues that were 
decided upon as part of that complaint. 
Our approach
Mrs B has provided a very large amount of information in relation to this case. As this is an 
informal service, Ive not responded to every point shes raised individually. Instead Ive 
focussed on the things I consider to be most relevant to my outcome. However I wish to 
reassure Mrs B that Ive read and considered everything that has been provided.
From doing so, its clear that this claim has caused Mrs B significant distress and 
inconvenience, especially considering the length of time the issues have been ongoing for. 
Subsidence claims, by their nature, often take a long time to resolve. There will usually be 
periods of monitoring where it may feel like no progress is being made. And it may take 
some time to identify and mitigate the cause of damage, as this isnt always clear from the 
start and requires varies different types of investigation to identify. There are also often a 
number of different contractors involved. And this can cause added disruption and extra 
time. 
When looking at this complaint I am focussing solely on the impact the actions of Aviva had 
on Mrs B. And I can only make an award for this impact, rather than the impact of having a 
subsidence claim. Claims themselves can be stressful and cause distress and disruption, but 
I can only ask Aviva to pay compensation for things it got wrong. Ive therefore looked at the 
timeline since 2015 and identified where I think Aviva has caused unnecessary delays and 
caused avoidable additional distress and inconvenience, in order to decide what it should do 
to put things right. 
It is of note that throughout this complaint Aviva has provided no information to this service, 
even though it has been given ample opportunity to do so. Due to this, and in order to not 
delay matters further, Ive decided the matter based on the information Mrs B has provided.
Ive addressed the issues I considered to be key to my decision in turn below.Damp proof membrane
Mrs B has said that Avivas contractor didnt fit suitable damp proofing when it first laid the 
kitchen floor in 2018. And this led to discolouring of the grouting and further water ingress.
Ive looked at the initial report from the contractor, and it directs a resin primer to be applied 
under the flooring. Aviva has confirmed that this was carried out by the contractor. The 
contractor has also clarified that as there were no significant damp issues at the time, this is 
why a further damp proof membrane wasnt deemed necessary. 
I appreciate Mrs B has said that she thinks that due to the high moisture levels in the area of 
her property, a damp proof membrane would have been necessary. It isnt the role of this 
service to decide what the most appropriate repairs are, as we arent experts in building 
repairs. Instead we rely on the evidence available and the opinions of those who are experts. 
Avivas expert concluded that the resin primer was suitable based on the information at the 
time. And while Mrs B has said she doesnt think this was suitable, shes provided no expert 
evidence to contradict this. So Im persuaded that Aviva acted fairly by not installing a damp 
proof membrane at this time, based on the information it had. 
Further, the problems with the grouting were later identified as being due to an open joint in 
the drainage system. So this further supports this position. As the damage that developed 
wasnt due to usual use but instead a further issue causing more extensive water ingress.
I note that in 2021 a damp proof membrane was installed, and Im pleased to hear that this 
has resolved matters for Mrs B. However Im satisfied that Aviva followed its expert opinion 
based on the evidence available at the time in 2019. And while I agree that a damp proof 
membrane being installed would have stopped the water from penetrating and causing the 
damage to the grouting, I still wouldnt have expected Aviva to install one when its expert 
didnt think it necessary at the time. Id expect it to put in place only what is required for the 
usual functioning of a property and Im satisfied this is what it did. So I dont think it caused 
an unreasonable delay here.  
Soakaway
In a report instructed by Aviva in 2015, the soakaway was noted as an issue as it wasnt built 
in line with buildings guidance. But it concluded that the property wasnt suffering from 
subsidence at that time so moving it wouldnt be covered under the policy. The report 
advised that Mrs B take action to rectify the problem.
In 2018 however, the soakaway was identified as causing subsidence to the property due to 
the impact the damp ground was having on the building. And moving it formed part of the 
mitigation and repairs directed at this time. I therefore agree that Aviva failed to identify an 
issue that could have been addressed earlier, so I agree this delayed the claim.
Overall service and delays
From considering the action taken on the claim since 2015, I agree Aviva has provided a 
poor service and has caused some avoidable delays. I have summarised the key issues I 
have identified:
Aviva could have identified the problem with the defective pipe causing damp issues 
in the kitchen at an earlier date. It originally concluded that damp on the floor was 
caused by water being spilt from the sink. I dont think this was a reasonable 
conclusion based on the level of moisture identified at the time. Had it identified the 
real problem sooner, it could have resolved problems more quickly.No schedule of works was provided to Mrs B throughout the claim so she was 
unclear about the work that would take place and the time scales for this. This 
caused Mrs B undue distress and left her unclear on when works would finish and 
she would get her home back to normal. So I think Aviva should have done more 
here to help alleviate the distress.
While I am only considering a small period of the claim, I can see Aviva has 
incorrectly repudiated the claim on a number of occasions. The cause of subsidence 
can be difficult to identify, and I can see significant investigations were carried out 
during this time, so I dont agree that Aviva delayed the claim unavoidably for all of 
this time. However I think more could have been done at an earlier stage to ensure 
the problem was identified and addressed earlier. 
Mrs B has been living in difficult conditions while work has been undertaken. While 
subsidence claims will usually cause some considerable disruption to a home while 
repairs are carried out, I agree Aviva has caused this to go on for longer than it 
should have done. This has caused Mrs B additional and prolonged distress that has 
had an impact on her day to day life. Shes also explained that she intended to carry 
out work on her driveway that she has now had to delay and is concerned about cost 
increases of this.
Ive seen no evidence that Aviva offered the option of alternative accommodation 
during this time, which meant Mrs B had to construct a basic temporary kitchen in her 
garage while she was without kitchen facilities. 
Based on this, and on considering all the information provided again, I maintain my position 
in my provisional findings that Aviva should pay Mrs B £750 compensation. 
I understand Mrs B is extremely unhappy with the compensation awarded and shes 
explained the distress and inconvenience the claim has caused her and the impact this has 
had on many areas of her life. By making this award, I in no way wish to diminish this impact 
and I dont doubt that its been a very difficult time for Mrs B. However my award is limited to 
the impact of Avivas actions and the actions of its agents, rather than the impact of having a 
subsidence claim. And, on considering everything, I think £750 is a fair amount for the period 
Ive considered in this complaint, and in line with this services approach to other similar 
complaints.
Alternative accommodation
I have considered the information Mrs B has provided, including the video that shows the 
conditions she has been living in while her kitchen was out of use. I agree she has been 
living in very difficult conditions during these periods. 
From the information provided Ive seen no evidence that Aviva offered to provide alternative 
accommodation for this period. And in this situation this service would expect it to have 
either provided alternative accommodation or paid a disturbance allowance to make up for 
the additional costs that would be incurred from not having access to kitchen facilities. This 
is to cover buying readymade food, takeaways or eating out. I therefore agree with our 
investigator that Aviva should pay a disturbance allowance of £10 per day for the periods 
Mrs B was without these facilities. 
Mrs B has said that she was without facilities for a total of 11 months  four and a half 
months in 2019 and a further six and a half months in 2021. Aviva has provided no 
information to dispute these periods so I have no reason to doubt that this is correct. I 
therefore conclude that Aviva should pay disturbance allowance at £10 per day for this period, and will direct it to pay a total of £3,300 as outlined in my provisional decision, less 
any payments already made for this period of time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs B £750 compensation
Pay Mrs B £3,300 disturbance allowance, less any amounts already paid for this for 
the period of 11 months across 2019 and 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman