DRN-3597789
The complaint
Mr L complains about advice given InterestMe Financial Planning Limited (InterestMe) to 
switch his existing personal pension plan to a self invested personal pension (SIPP).
The advice was given in 2016 by Wise Pension Group Limited which is now InterestMe. For 
ease, Ive just referred to InterestMe below. 
What happened
A fact find summary records that, at the time of the advice, Mr L was 52, married with three 
dependent children. He was employed full time and earning around £2,000 pm. He owned 
his own home, subject to a mortgage. He had a personal pension to which he was 
contributing £160 pm (£200 pm after tax relief). The fund value was £114,667.60 and the 
transfer value £123,174.37. It was invested in two with profits funds and a balanced fund. 
There was an annual charge of 1%. Mr Ls retirement age was 65 and his target income was 
£1,000 pm. His objectives included that he hadnt had a review for a while and he wanted to 
see how his pension was performing, understand his potential position, any shortfalls that 
might exist and what actions he could take to improve his position. So the drivers were 
advice and performance. 
InterestMe issued a suitability report on 1 July 2016, recommending that Mr L switch his 
existing personal pension to a SIPP. The reason given was greater performance prospects 
and lower product costs. The report said there was no penalty for switching and the transfer 
value included a final bonus of £8,507. It also said the plan was partially (just over 50% of 
the fund value) invested in the with profits fund and there was a fund guarantee of 4% pa. 
But InterestMes research indicated that its recommended fund choice would deliver higher 
returns over the longer term. Mr Ls existing plan offered around 90 alternative funds which 
may be sufficient to build a diversified portfolio. But it didnt have the facility to access 
benefits flexibly from age 55 which the recommended solution did.  
 
InterestMes estimated charges for the new arrangement  a SIPP and investment via a 
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM), although not referred to as such, in its Balanced 
Portfolio  were set out. There was a 3% initial advice and implementation fee (around 
£3,695) and an ongoing service fee of 3% pa (around £896 pa).
It was noted (and contrary to what the fact find summary said) that Mr L was a member of 
his company pension scheme. No further details were set out. The report said Mr L had over 
twelve years to retirement and he didnt expect to be solely reliant on the pension under 
discussion. There was an extremely low probability hed have an income shortfall in 
retirement. From what hed said, the answers hed given and based on his objectives and 
capacity for loss, his risk profile was lower to medium.    
The report contained an assessment of Mr Ls existing pension plan. The projected fund 
value at age 65 was £222,300. On a like-for-like basis, the SIPP had a projected fund value 
of £225,000. The projected value of the recommended fund, the DFMs Balanced Portfolio, 
was £320,000. That calculation used a back tested five year annualized performance figure 
of 9.4% pa. Initial and ongoing fees had been deducted. The projected figure wasnt 
guaranteed. As the DFM had only been running the Balanced Portfolio for one year, the five 
year performance had been back-tested on a simulated basis. The report said the 
recommended solution wasnt cheaper than a standard stakeholder arrangement but it was 
cheaper than Mr Ls existing provider. A copy of the fund fact sheet was included. 
Mr L accepted the recommendations. A transfer value of £128,441.57 was paid on 28 July 
2016 and invested in the DFMs Balanced Portfolio. The DFM entered administration in May 
2017.
Mr L, via a legal representative, complained to InterestMe in April 2021 that the advice had 
been unsuitable. Amongst other things,  the suitability report was confusing, didnt include a 
fair comparison with Mr Ls existing plan and didnt explain the charges properly. The report 
had said the charges would be lower but they were more than double the existing plans 
annual costs. Mr L shouldve been advised to remain with his existing provider. It offered 
over 90 alternative funds and Mr L couldve switched to lower risk funds if so advised. His 
capacity for loss was low and a DFM wasnt appropriate as he wasnt a high net worth or a 
sophisticated investor. It was unclear if Mr L had received restricted advice.  
The current (as at 2 March 2021) SIPP values were set out. Several of the companies in 
which the SIPP had invested had gone into liquidation and it appeared those investments 
had no value. It was suggested that Mr Ls losses were £49,137.92 plus initial and ongoing 
advice fees 
InterestMe didnt uphold the complaint. It said the reports clearly detailed Mr Ls existing plan 
versus the recommended arrangement with a comparison of the charges and outlined the 
rationale for the recommendation. InterestMe accepted the switch meant the annual charges 
increased but said that was fully disclosed in the suitability report and verbally before Mr L 
agreed to switch. The charges werent disproportionate given the work involved. InterestMe 
offered a restricted service and that was fully discussed and disclosed and evidenced by the 
documentation, including the suitability report which clearly stated the nature and type of 
advice being provided. InterestMe maintained the recommendations were suitable. 
Mr L remained dissatisfied and his complaint was referred to us. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened and upheld the complaint. In summary her findings were:
COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook) 2.1.1R and 9.2.1R were relevant. As was 
the regulators 2009 pension switching report and checklist. It highlighted four key 
issues: charges  had the consumer been switched to a pension that was more 
expensive than their existing pension; had the consumer lost benefits in the switch 
without good reason; risk  had the consumer switched into a pension that matched 
their attitude to risk and personal circumstances; and ongoing fund management 
charges  had the consumer switched to a pension with a need for ongoing 
investment reviews which wasnt explained, offered or put in place. 
Mr Ls existing plan had an annual management charge of 1%. The combined 
charges for the new plan came to 2.01% pa plus a pension wrapper charge of £114 
pa. That was over twice what Mr L had been paying. The difference in charges was 
misrepresented and the switch didnt result in lower costs. The extra charges, plus 
the 3% initial advice fee, would have a significant effect on future investment growth. 
The asset allocation of the DFMs Balanced Portfolio appeared in line with Mr Ls 
attitude to risk. But the Portfolio was relatively new and had very limited investment 
history. The regulators growth rates at the time were 2%, 5% and 8%. The 
recommendation was made on the basis that Mr L could expect greater returns but it 
wasnt reasonable to expect that. The projected fund value at age 65 for Mr Ls 
existing plan was £222,300. For the SIPP it was higher at £225,000. But that didnt 
take into account the initial 3% advice fee and it was unclear if the ongoing advice charges had been factored in. If the initial advice fee was taken into account, the 
expected fund value for the SIPP was £201,000 and so lower than the projection for 
the existing plan.
The projected SIPP fund value at retirement was £320,000. But the projected returns 
were based on an extremely short, one year, historical performance figure and the 
growth rate of 9.4% exceeded the regulators highest projection rate. Given Mr Ls 
attitude to risk, that was unrealistic. The impression given was that hed be much 
better off by switching but that was misleading.
The suitability report said that, after switching, Mr L would benefit from a range of 
7,000 funds. But the recommendation was to invest in a relatively new Portfolio with 
a limited track record.
Mr L was twelve years away from his proposed retirement age and so being able to 
access his benefits flexibly wasnt relevant. Had a need arisen that couldve been 
looked into then instead of exposing his fund to the higher charges in the interim for a 
benefit he didnt need.   
The client agreement (signed by Mr L on 23 March 2016) explained that restricted 
advice was offered. But any recommendation still had to be suitable for the client. 
The DFM had gone into liquidation. Mr Ls SIPP fund included several failed or illiquid 
investments. The overall recommendation to switch was unsuitable. Mr L wasnt a 
sophisticated investor and he didnt have significant funds to invest. He didnt require 
a relatively complex arrangement with the extra charges that entailed. The added 
cost of the DFM was disproportionately high. There was some evidence that 
InterestMe had undertaken some research into the DFM, but the model portfolios 
hadnt been active for long and so projected performance and assumed volatility was 
based on very limited data. 
Mr L had approached InterestMe to review his existing pension. If hed been properly 
informed about the costs of the new arrangement and whether it was realistically 
likely that it would outperform his current plan, hed have opted to remain with his 
existing provider. 
The investigator set out how InterestMe needed to compensate Mr L.
InterestMe didnt accept the investigators view. It said it had taken specialist legal advice as 
to the respective responsibilities of InterestMe as advisers and the DFM in relation to each of 
the individual investments in Mr Ls portfolio. InterestMe said it was responsible for the 
suitability of the recommendation of the content of the model portfolio at the outset and for 
ongoing review of the portfolio and its overall composition. The DFM was responsible for 
constructing the portfolio and managing it to the mandate by exercising discretion to take 
decisions to trade only in investments there were suitable for the portfolio  both in isolation 
and as part of a portfolio that remained suitable overall for investors whod signed up to that 
mandate and risk level. InterestMe could only assess the suitability of investments within the 
portfolio of which it was aware. 
InterestMe said the DFM had a strong focus on risk management. The primary aim was to 
preserve capital during adverse market conditions. The secondary aim was to capture 
growth during buoyant economic conditions, using data driven algorithms, the key features 
of which were total flexibility between debt and equities in adverse market conditions, regular 
(monthly) reallocation of portfolio weightings, and use of collective funds. The DFM used 
asset backed corporate bonds to build a predictable element into portfolio investments. The 
return isnt influenced by market sentiment, central bank decisions, fiscal changes and 
exchange rates but theres a risk the issuer may default. The DFM took steps to manage that 
risk by ongoing due diligence of the corporate bonds to ensure continuing good governance 
and lending against good quality assets. InterestMe was unaware that the DFM had exercised its discretion and taken decisions to 
trade and invest in bonds issued by its parent company, Optima Worldwide Group (OWG).  
That was in breach of the DFMs regulatory obligations as to suitability and disclosure. The 
DFM had failed in its duties to Mr L as a retail client and to InterestMe as the adviser. The 
DFM tried to resolve the situation with OWG in 2020 but in February 2021 InterestMe found 
out that the DFM had gone into liquidation. As the DFM should never have made the 
investment into OWG, any resulting loss wasnt InterestMes responsibility and a claim 
should be made to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).  
 
InterestMe also said the DFM was responsible for any losses in connection with Vernon 
Property plc, now in administration, as the DFM hadnt picked up, as part of its ongoing due 
diligence, liquidity issues. Again Mr L should make a claim to FSCS. 
With regard to Minerva Lending plc, although its accounts were overdue and it had been 
classified as suspended, the underlying company and loans were still actively trading and 
interest distributions were up to date (as at 28 February 2022). InterestMe didnt see any 
reason why the carry value wasnt correct at the par value plus accrued interest. InterestMe 
said similar about Meredith Property Group plc. All interest distributions had been paid up to 
31 December 2021. The next expected coupon date was January 2023. A review had 
concluded there was a strong likelihood the company should be able to pay the principal 
sum on maturity and up to date accounts had been filed. 
InterestMe said it couldnt be held responsible for the losses in connection with the OWG 
and Vernon Property plc investments  I understand the amounts initially invested were 
£12,400 and £12,101 respectively. It believed the other bond investments retained 
considerable value. But, in the interests of settling the matter, it would be prepared to value 
those at 90% of their current value. 
The investigator considered the points made by InterestMe but she wasnt persuaded to alter 
her view She said the advice to switch to the SIPP and invest in the DFM wasnt suitable in 
the first place. Had suitable advice been given Mr L wouldnt have been invested with the 
DFM when it subsequently failed. 
The investigator said the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my conclusions and deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the complaint, Ive taken into account, as Im required to do, relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms. PRIN 2 (A firm 
must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence); PRIN 6 (A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly); and PRIN 9 (A firm must take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any 
customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment) are in my view particularly relevant. 
The COBS rules also apply. The investigator pointed to COBS 2.1.1R which requires a firm 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients 
and applies in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail client. And 
COBS 9 is relevant too. It sets out a firms obligations in assessing the suitability of investments and the information the firm must obtain - about the clients knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; their financial situation; and their 
investment objectives. A firm must have a reasonable basis for believing that whats 
recommended meets the clients investment objectives; that the client is able financially to 
bear any related investment risks consistent with his investment objectives; and that he has 
the necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction or in the management of his portfolio. 
Like the investigator, Ive also taken into account the report published in 2009 (which is still 
relevant today) about pension switching and the four main areas where consumers may 
have lost out. 
And, in 2013 and 2014 the regulator published alerts aimed at reminding advisers that, when 
advising on pension switches, the provision of suitable advice generally required 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments. The earlier alert was aimed at where investments in 
unregulated schemes were intended. But the later alert confirmed that giving suitable advice 
generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle or wrapper and 
the expected underlying investments and whether or not such investments are regulated 
products. 
Ive also borne in mind the general legal position, including the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
I agree with the investigator and for the reasons that she gave that InterestMes advice to 
switch to a SIPP and invest via a DFM wasnt suitable for Mr L. 
First, the new arrangement was more expensive than Mr Ls existing pension. In response to 
Mr Ls complaint, InterestMe accepted that the switch meant the annual charges increased 
but said that was fully disclosed in the suitability report and verbally before Mr L agreed to 
switch. But the executive summary at the start of the suitability report said the reason for the 
recommendation to switch was greater performance prospects along with the additional 
benefit of lower product costs. That was repeated in the next section of the report. And 
elsewhere  for example in the features summary on page ten of the report. The pension 
wrapper charge was £114 pa. But in addition Mr L would be paying investment management 
and dealing charges plus initial and ongoing advice fees. So, overall, the new arrangement 
was much more expensive. 
Secondly, the switch meant that Mr L gave up a guaranteed rate of return of 4% pa on part 
(just over 50%) of his fund which was invested in with profits. The fund guarantee was 
mentioned in the suitability report. It also said that a final bonus of £8,507 was included in 
the transfer value. Its unclear if any market value adjustment (MVA) had been applied. The 
report said the recommended fund choice  the DFMs Balanced Portfolio - would deliver 
higher returns over the longer term. But I dont think that was realistic or based on reliable 
performance data or assumptions.
The projected fund value was based on what was termed a back tested five year annualised 
performance figure of 9.4% pa, which was net of InterestMes initial and ongoing advice 
fees. It was in my view inappropriate to use a projection based on extrapolated returns from 
very short term (one year) historical performance figures. Particularly when performance 
appeared to be the main driver for the switch. 
Although the report did say the estimated values werent guaranteed, I think the projection 
was likely to mislead Mr L. I think hed have found the estimated projected value that the 
new arrangement could achieve (a fund value of £320,000 compared to £222,300 if he stayed with his existing provider) very attractive. I dont think he was given a realistic picture 
of how the SIPP would likely perform and the returns which could reasonably be expected to 
be achieved.  Like the investigator, I think the regulators standard growth rates at the time 
for use in illustrations - 2%, 5% and 8% for low, medium and high returns respectively  put 
things in some context. Mr Ls fund would need to achieve year on year returns in excess of 
the higher rate and when he was only prepared to take a lower to medium level of risk.  
The new arrangement did offer more flexibility as to how Mr L could access his benefits. But, 
as the investigator pointed out, he was some twelve years away from retirement and so hed 
be paying for a feature he didnt need. If, in the interim, a need arose that couldve been 
addressed then.
I agree with the investigator that switching to a SIPP wasnt suitable for Mr L. 
And I dont see that he had any need to invest via a DFM. The suitability report doesnt make 
it clear that a DFM is involved. Nor does it set out the reasons why a DFM is recommended 
and considered suitable for Mr L. The DFM added another layer of costs and Mr Ls fund 
was modest. He wasnt a knowledgeable or experienced investor and I dont think he had 
any need for other than a relatively basic pension arrangement. His existing pension offered 
a wide choice of funds and so, if InterestMes review had highlighted that fund changes were 
appropriate, internal fund switches couldve been arranged. 
Ive considered the points made by InterestMe in response to the investigators view. I note 
what InterestMe says about what it understood to be the DFMs approach, the focus on risk 
management and the use of asset backed corporate bonds. And why, in particular, the 
investment in OWG bonds shouldnt have happened. But, and despite any failings on the 
DFMs part, I still think InterestMe is responsible for Mr Ls losses.
 
First, the recommendation to switch to the SIPP was unsuitable. But for InterestMes 
unsuitable advice, I think Mr L wouldve remained with his existing provider. 
Further, InterestMe recommended that Mr L use the services of the DFM and invest in its 
Balanced Portfolio. As Ive said above, in recommending a switch to a SIPP, InterestMe had 
to take into account the proposed underlying investment. Mr Ls pension money was held by 
the DFM and invested by the DFM in its Balanced Portfolio as a direct result of InterestMes 
recommendation. The advice to switch to a SIPP and use a DFM wasnt suitable. 
I recognise that it wasnt InterestMes fault that the DFM went into administration. But Mr L is 
in the position hes in because of InterestMes unsuitable advice  but for that he wouldnt 
have had a SIPP or a DFM and so the DFMs failure wouldnt have impacted on him. I think 
the root cause of any losses Mr L has suffered in consequence of the DFMs failure goes 
back to InterestMes unsuitable advice. 
The DFM was regulated and might have some responsibility for some of Mr Ls losses. But 
although the DFM was responsible for managing Mr Ls pension fund following the switch, 
that arrangement only existed by virtue of InterestMes unsuitable recommendation. Im only 
considering a complaint against InterestMe. For the reasons Ive given, I think its fair and 
reasonable, and notwithstanding any shortcomings on the DFMs part, to hold InterestMe 
fully responsible for any losses Mr L has suffered in consequence of InterestMes unsuitable 
advice to switch to a SIPP and invest via the DFM.  
Although it seems InterestMe accepts that no value will be returned from the investments in 
OWG and Vernon Property plc, InterestMe suggests the Minerva Lending plc and Meredith 
Property Group plc investments have retained their values. But the test will be if they can be 
sold. The redress Ive set out below is aimed at putting Mr L back in the position hed be in but for InterestMes unsuitable advice. That includes being able to sell the investments in the 
SIPP so that it can be wound up if Mr L wants and so he can transfer to a more suitable 
pension arrangement. Ive said that if any of the assets are illiquid and cant readily be sold 
on the open market, a nil value should be assumed. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr L as close as possible to 
the position hed probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. I think Mr L wouldve 
remained with his previous provider. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable in this situation. It follows what the investigator suggested. 
To compensate Mr L fairly InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should:  
Compare the performance of Mr L's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, theres a loss and compensation is payable.
If theres a loss, InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should pay into Mr Ls pension 
plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If InterestMe Financial Planning Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr 
Ls pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to 
pay into the plan, it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid.  
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr L's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that 
hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if Mr L wouldve been able to take a lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
In addition, InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should pay Mr L £300 for the 
distress caused by the loss of the investments, which were a direct result of switch 
and investment recommendation. This wouldve caused him concern for his future 
pension provision. His pension was important to him and the prospect of losing 
money will have been worrying and stressful. 
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mr L in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From 
(start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Wise 
SIPPStill exists some 
assets liquid/some 
illiquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
transferDate of 
settlementNot 
applicableactual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If, at the end date, the portfolio or some of the assets are illiquid (meaning they cannot be 
readily sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the 
portfolio/asset. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should take ownership of the illiquid 
portfolio/asset by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount paid should be included in the actual value before compensation is calculated. If 
InterestMe Financial Planning Limited is unable to purchase the portfolio/asset the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. 
InterestMe Financial Planning Limited may wish to require that Mr L provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the portfolio/asset in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. InterestMe Financial Planning Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
notional value
This is the value of Mr L's investment had it remained with the previous provider until
the end date. InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should request that the previous 
provider calculates this value.
Any additional sum paid into the Wise SIPP should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal from the Wise SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if all 
the payments are totaled and that figure deducted at the end to determine the notional value 
instead of deducting periodically.
For the Wise SIPP to be closed and further fees avoided, the illiquid assets need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how that might be achieved. But, if InterestMe Financial 
Planning Limited is unable to take ownership of any illiquid investments (and they cant 
otherwise be removed from the SIPP), theyll remain in the SIPP. I dont think it would be fair 
for Mr L to have to pay ongoing SIPP fees when the SIPP only exists because of unsuitable 
advice. If the SIPP cant be closed InterestMe Financial Planning Limited should pay Mr L a 
lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using the fee in the 
previous year to date). Thats a reasonable period to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. InterestMe Financial Planning Limited must calculate and pay 
redress to Mr L as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022. 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman