DRN-3310863
The complaint
Mr O complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited approved an application for car finance but 
would not then proceed with an application when he wanted to change his car.   
What happened
In May 2021 Mr O entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement for a used Jaguar. He 
soon decided however that he was not entirely happy with the car and returned to the 
dealership with the intention of changing it for a Range Rover which was available.
Mr O completed a new set of documents but, when he went to collect the Range Rover, was 
told that MotoNovo had declined his application. The reason given was that he only had a 
provisional, rather than a full, driving licence. He thought that was unfair. It was not a 
requirement of the hire purchase agreement that he have a full licence, and MotoNovo had 
been happy to provide finance for the Jaguar just a few months earlier, on the same terms.  
MotoNovo accepted that the dealership  which was acting as its agent  should have made 
it clear to Mr O that he would require a full licence. It accepted too that Mr O had suffered 
distress and inconvenience as a result and offered him £400 in recognition of that. 
Mr O did not accept MotoNovos offer and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator thought that MotoNovos offer was fair. Mr O did not agree and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the investigators view, Mr O confirmed through his representative that he still 
had the Jaguar. He has also received refunds of money paid in respect of the Range Rover 
 a deposit and tax. The issues I have to decide are therefore whether MotoNovo was 
entitled to decline his finance application at such a late stage and whether the offer of £400 
is reasonable in the circumstances. 
MotoNovo appears to accept that it made an error in approving the first finance application, 
for the Jaguar. Had it applied its normal policy, which is to require the applicant to have a full 
driving licence, it would not have agreed to the hire purchase arrangement. It seems 
however that it did not realise that Mr O only had a provisional licence, although it would 
have been very easy to check. It does not suggest that it was a term of the agreement that 
Mr O have a full licence, and there is no such term included in it. 
Having agreed to provide finance for the Jaguar, however, I do not believe that MotoNovo 
could then withdraw that finance, at least once the dealership had been paid and the car 
delivered to Mr O. He had not misled MotoNovo about his licence and it was not a 
contractual requirement that he had a full licence. Mr O was not in breach of the agreement 
and MotoNovo could not end it without his consent. 
The position with the Range Rover was different, however, because the car had not been 
supplied. Until it was, MotoNovo could decide that it did not want to provide the finance. The 
fact that it had provided finance for the Jaguar did not mean that it had to provide finance for 
the Range Rover. Generally, it is for lenders to decide whether or not to provide finance or to 
continue to provide finance. As long as there is no unlawful discrimination, for example, and 
the lending decision is not based on an error, this service will not usually interfere with a 
lenders decision. There is no suggestion of discrimination in this case and no error  
MotoNovo did not, for example, decline the application believing Mr O had a provisional 
licence when he in fact had a full licence.   
MotoNovo initially offered Mr O £150 to resolve his complaint but increased that offer to 
£400 when he explained in more detail the impact its actions had had on him. I agree with 
the investigator that the revised offer is a fair one in the circumstances. I shall therefore 
leave it to him to decide whether, on reflection, he wants to accept it.      
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require MotoNovo Finance Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Mr Os complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman