DRN-2438384
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (LV) unfairly declined 
a claim for benefit under his sick pay policy. He has also complained about its later decision 
to cancel the policy due to an alleged misrepresentation.
What happened
In August 2014 Mr H took out a personal sick pay policy with LV. It would provide him with a 
monthly benefit of £800 if he was unable to work due to sickness or accident.
In August 2019 Mr H contacted LV to make a claim. He told LV hed been unable to work 
since March 2019 following an assault which had left him critically injured. Mr H also told LV 
he wished to make another claim from August 2016 to June 2018 as he had been unable to 
work due to mental health problems and symptoms of Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS).
LV requested medical information to assess the claims. It received a report from Mr Hs GP 
which led it to suspect Mr H had IBS before the policy started, which he hadnt told LV about 
in his application. It asked for further medical evidence in order to consider the claim and 
investigate the potential misrepresentation. However, Mr H withdrew his consent for LV to 
access his medical records. He complained that LV was asking for excessive medical 
information and already had enough to pay his claims.
On 7 January 2020 LV gave Mr H a final response. It told Mr H it couldnt pay the claim from 
August 2016  June 2018 (claim 1) as it didnt have enough evidence to show Mr H couldnt 
work due to sickness. It said it couldnt pay the claim from March 2019 (claim 2) as Mr H 
couldnt provide any evidence of his earnings as required under the policy terms. But LV 
recognised it couldve handled Mr Hs claim better given the circumstances and paid him 
£1,000 as an apology.
Mr H provided LV with some medical evidence covering some of the duration of claim 1, but 
LV maintained its decision. It issued another final response on 4 February 2020, explaining it 
still needed further evidence to investigate the possible misrepresentation of IBS. Mr H 
remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She thought LV was entitled to ask for further 
medical information. Following the investigators view, Mr H provided LV with information 
about his IBS. This led LV to cancel the policy due to misrepresentation; it said Mr H was 
undergoing investigations into symptoms of IBS before he applied for the policy, which he 
shouldve told LV about. It considered the misrepresentation was reckless which meant it 
was entitled to cancel the policy. LV refunded the premiums Mr H had paid from inception.
The investigator gained LVs consent to consider the cancellation of Mr Hs policy, but 
thought LV had acted reasonably. Mr H asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
The complaint was allocated to me and I informed both parties that I intended to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint in part. I agreed that Mr H had made a misrepresentation, but I thought this 
was careless rather than reckless. I said a proportionate remedy should be applied under 
the relevant law. I thought claim 1 was payable for a short period, but I said Mr H would need 
to provide LV with further evidence if he felt the claim should be paid for longer. I didnt think 
LV had declined claim 2 unfairly. I also thought the compensation LV had paid was 
reasonable.
LV accepted my provisional decision but Mr H did not. Mr H said he had provided further 
medical evidence to LV in August 2020 which showed claim 1 should be paid for longer. He 
added that LV had refused to accept medical evidence from him in the past. Mr H also 
maintained the £1,000 paid to him wasnt compensation for the way LV had treated him. He 
said phone calls he had with LV would prove this. But even if it was compensation, Mr H said 
it wasnt enough and it suggested his life was only worth £1,000.
LV wasnt able to provide our service with the recording of the phone call Mr H had specified. 
I told both parties that my view was unchanged and I wouldnt be considering the extra 
medical evidence Mr H had provided. I said I was satisfied LV hadnt considered this 
evidence, as at this point it was investigating the misrepresentation and cancelled Mr Hs 
policy shortly after. I maintained my view that Mr H would need to ask LV to consider paying 
his claim for longer and that he should provide it with complete medical information to allow it 
to make a decision.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, Im now providing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Misrepresentation
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer. The 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice, Managing Claims for Individual and 
Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products also provides its 
members with further guidance on how to deal with misrepresentations discovered at the 
point of claim. As LV is a member of the ABI, I have taken the code into account as well as 
CIDRA.
Both the law and the code say that if a consumer doesnt take reasonable care when 
answering an insurance application question, the insurer can take specific action depending 
on the categorisation of the misrepresentation. After reviewing the medical information Mr H 
provided, LV thought Mr H had made a misrepresentation in respect of IBS symptoms that 
he was suffering from prior to applying for the policy on 5 August 2014. It thought the 
misrepresentation was reckless, which meant it was entitled to cancel the policy from 
inception under the law and code.
Ive reviewed all the medical information provided and I agree with LV that there was a 
misrepresentation. The application Mr H completed asked:
Are you awaiting the results of, or have you been advised to have, any medical 
investigations, tests or scans or have you any expectation of seeking medical advice or treatment in the near future?
Mr Hs medical records show that in February 2014 he asked for a referral to a specialist to 
investigate symptoms of diarrhoea. Mr Hs records show that a referral was made by his GP 
and he should have attended an appointment in July 2014. However, the appointment was 
missed, and Mr H instead attended in September 2014.
So, at the point of applying for the policy, I think Mr H wouldve been aware of the 
outstanding specialist referral. I appreciate that this was made at Mr Hs request, but it is 
clear to me that Mr H was worried enough about his symptoms to ask to see a specialist 
about them. So, I think any reasonable person in Mr Hs situation wouldve answered the 
above question positively. However, I dont agree with LVs categorisation of the 
misrepresentation as reckless. The code says that this category should be reserved for the 
most serious of misrepresentations. And I dont think this fairly describes the 
misrepresentation made  Mr H had been reassured by his GP that nothing serious was 
wrong so I can understand why he may not have thought he needed to tell LV about his 
referral. For this reason, I think it would be fairer to categorise the misrepresentation as 
'careless' instead, which results in a proportionate outcome under the law and the code.
In applying a proportionate remedy, the code requires LV to reach the ultimate underwriting 
outcome if the appropriate disclosure had been made. Where further investigation of 
symptoms is required, this assumes the results will be provided on completion of the 
investigations to the insurer to determine whether terms can be offered. The medical 
evidence Mr H provided showed a colonoscopy performed was normal and in February 2015 
the specialist diagnosed probable IBS, discharging him back to his GP's care. Based on LVs 
underwriting criteria I think LV would've offered Mr H terms with a premium rating of +50. 
This means that LV needs to apply a proportionate remedy when it pays Mr Hs claim.
As I dont think LV classified the misrepresentation correctly, to resolve this aspect of the 
complaint LV should reinstate the policy and collect the outstanding premiums to bring the 
policy back up to date. If Mr H is unable to pay the outstanding premiums up front, LV can 
deduct this from his claim payment.
Claim 1
Based upon the evidence provided to LV when it initially considered the claims, I think 
Mr Hs claim for sick pay benefit is substantiated from 5 August 2016 up to the date that the 
certificate issued by his GP on 11 January 2017 covers (it isnt clear what this date is). So, 
LV should pay Mr Hs claim on a proportionate basis between these dates.
While I can see reference to an additional certificate issued on 10 April 2017, Mr H hasnt 
provided LV with medical records covering January 2017 onwards. And I dont think a 
certificate alone is sufficient to show that Mr H couldnt have worked at this time. For the 
period before this, Mr Hs GPs notes give further insight into his symptoms and how they 
prevented him from working. I think these notes in conjunction with the certificates prove the 
claim for that period.
Mr H has said that his GP signed him off for two years, that he was attending therapy for the 
entire period and couldnt work. But this has to be substantiated by evidence. Mr H has 
provided some evidence relating to the therapy he was undergoing in 2018, but I am not 
going to be looking at any additional medical evidence. LV was initially given medical 
evidence up to around January 2017  it considered this but declined to pay the claim. My 
role is limited to looking at the evidence LV has already considered. Although Mr H sent 
extra evidence to LV in August 2020, Im satisfied it hasnt considered whether or not this 
supports his claim for benefit. This is because at this point LV was investigating the misrepresentation  it wasnt considering whether the claim was payable.  So, LV must have 
the opportunity to consider this evidence first. 
Mr H says that LV has refused to accept medical information from him and has said it will 
only accept evidence from his GP. But as I understand it, LVs issue with the medical 
evidence Mr H has supplied in the past was that it was incomplete and contained redacted 
sections. I understand Mr Hs reluctance to share his complete medical records with LV, but 
providing it with incomplete evidence makes LVs job of assessing his claim more difficult. It 
isnt sufficient for Mr H to say he couldnt work  LV needs to be provided with objective 
evidence of this explaining why his illness prevented him from working. So, if Mr H believes 
that his claim should be paid for a longer period of time, he will need to ask LV to assess this 
and provide it with complete medical evidence for the relevant period, or alternatively provide 
his consent for LV to approach his GP for this evidence. If LV declines to pay Mr Hs claim 
for a longer period, Mr H has the right to refer a new complaint to our service.
Mr H has asked how the proportionate remedy applies to his claim. He has said his 
understanding is that he would have had to pay a higher premium, but it wouldnt affect the 
claim payment. Mr H has also asked for assurance that the calculations the payments are 
based on will be correct.
Under section 9.2.1 of the code, it says if the premium would have been rated (as is the case 
here):
where the insurer would have offered the same cover but charged the customer a higher 
premium, the insurer will pay the claim in proportion to the premium that was actually 
charged. Where the policy was entered into or varied on or after 6 April 2013, the insurer will 
use the formula set out at Schedule 1, paragraph 8 of CIDRA 2012 or a formula no less 
generous than this.
As Mr Hs policy started in 2014, the formula in CIDRA should be used. Schedule 1, 
paragraph 8 says:
Reduce proportionately means that the insurer need pay on the claim only X% of what it 
would otherwise have been under an obligation to pay under the terms of the contract, 
where-
=  
   100So, the claim payment Mr H receives will depend on 
the proportion of the premium that was actually charged, compared to the premium Mr H 
should have paid. This proportion is then applied to his monthly benefit so that it is 
proportionate to the premium he should have paid. The law and the code do not allow for 
insurers to simply charge the higher premium.
I would expect LV to provide Mr H with a clear breakdown of the calculation. But if Mr H does 
not understand how this has been worked out he can always ask our service to clarify.
Claim 2
LV declined this claim as it said Mr H hadnt been able to provide proof of the hours of work 
he carried out in the three months before 16 March 2019.
Mr H said he was self-employed, working cash in hand before the incident. So, he couldnt 
provide proof of his earnings or the hours he worked for the relevant period. But under the 
policy terms, section 5.5. says:Evidence of the hours you normally work
If we are going to pay you under the Personal Sick Pay guarantee, we'll need evidence of 
how many hours you were working in the three months before you claimed. This could be 
confirmation of hours from your employer if you were employed. Or if you were self-
employed, evidence from company accounts, invoices or receipts for example. To try and be 
as fair as possible, if your hours are a bit 'up and down' we can average out the hours you 
worked over the three months.
In light of the above, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to turn this claim down. This is 
because Mr H wasnt able to provide evidence of the hours he worked or his earnings in the 
period before he became unable to work.
Compensation
Mr H has complained about the £1,000 LV paid to him, saying that he refused it, but it was 
paid into his account anyway. Mr H also said that it wasnt actually a compensation payment 
and that it had been paid to him for no reason. Mr H says this can be confirmed by listening 
to a call he had with LV about it.
We asked for a recording of the call Mr H referred to, but unfortunately there isnt one 
available. Whilst its a shame this isnt available, call recordings arent kept indefinitely.
Nevertheless, LV stated in its letter to Mr H dated 7 January 2020:
Looking into how your claim was handled we couldve done better. I dont feel we had taken 
into account fully your personal situation and the affect that it has had on you, given it was a 
traumatic and life changing event. I am sorry we havent shown empathy or met your 
expectations at this difficult time.
As part of our apology and to show we do care we have made a chaps payment of £1,000 
into your account.
So, this letter explains that the £1,000 was compensation for LV not showing Mr H enough 
empathy during what was clearly a traumatic time. I appreciate Mr H says he was told 
differently on the phone, but Im satisfied of the reasons given by LV in their letter. LV has 
also since reiterated that the compensation was paid for this reason.
Mr H feels extra compensation to him should be paid. Ive considered this carefully, but Im 
not going to be asking LV to pay any extra compensation. The £1,000 already paid to him is 
a significant sum. While it may not seem sufficient given what Mr H has gone through, in my 
view it is a fair sum which demonstrates LVs regret for not being more empathetic towards 
him during the claim process. 
I dont doubt that it caused Mr H distress when his claim was initially declined and when LV 
cancelled his policy due to misrepresentation. But I dont think LV couldve reasonably 
reached a different outcome given the limited evidence Mr H had made available to it. It had 
legitimate concerns about Mr Hs application and the medical evidence he provided to LV 
was incomplete. So, Im not awarding any extra compensation. I have been able to reach a 
different outcome here, but only because Mr H has made more information available to our 
service. We agreed to look at this evidence because of the breakdown in the relationship 
between Mr H and LV, and because it covered the same period LV had already looked at. 
Additional support available under the policyMr H told us that his policy has a term in it which says that LV would have to give him care 
for any mental health issues. Mr H said he told LV what had happened to him in March 2019 
and he was ignored. Mr H feels that LV should pay for the ongoing health conditions that he 
has been suffering with and pay for private health care. Mr H has said he cant afford to go 
private as he is only receiving statutory sick pay and PIP.
Ive reviewed the policy terms carefully. Under section 8.6 it says:
Back to work support
We want to help you with your recovery and return to work and can sometimes offer you 
access to specialist services. For example; physiotherapy, counselling or other specialist 
treatment, rehabilitation services or financial support. The maximum we can pay for each 
claim is one months insurance payment. If you make a claim our team will look at your 
individual situation to see if there is anything they can do to help - all services offered are at 
our discretion.
I think this is the part of the policy Mr H is referring to, although it isnt specific to mental 
health conditions. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr H asked LV to consider 
providing him with support under this part of the policy. And this aspect of Mr Hs complaint 
hasnt been raised with LV before, so he would need to refer it to LV in the first instance. For 
this reason, I wont be commenting on this further.
The policy was mis-sold
Mr H has said recently that the policy was never really explained to him when he took it out. 
But it appears the policy was sold to Mr H by an independent financial adviser, not LV. So, 
this isnt a complaint point I can consider.
Putting things right
 LV should:
Reinstate Mr Hs policy subject to Mr H paying the outstanding premiums to date.*
Pay Mr Hs claim for benefit proportionately as per Schedule 1, paragraph 8 of 
CIDRA 2012 from 5 August 2016 to the last date covered by the medical certificate 
issued by Mr Hs GP in January 2017 (taking into account the policy waiting period).
*If Mr H is unable to pay the outstanding premiums up front, LV can deduct this from his 
claim payment.My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited to reinstate Mr Hs policy and pay his 
claim as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman