DRN-3345668
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd declined her pet insurance claim 
and about its service. My refences to Building Block include its agents.
What happened
Mrs G took out pet insurance for her dog in November 2018, insured by Building Block. The 
policy covered a condition for 365 days from the onset of the condition, subject to the policy 
limit of £1,000. She renewed the policy each year. For the policy year starting November 
2020, a £90 excess and 15% co-payment was payable for a vet fee claim as her dog was 
over 8 years old.
On 15 January 2021 Mrs Gs dog was seen by specialist vets following an emergency 
presentation of pyrexia (raised temperature), abnormal respiratory sounds and lethargy. 
Investigations diagnosed pancreatitis. Mrs G claimed for the specialist vets cost of about 
£2,000.
Building Block declined the claim. Initially it said the dogs vet history showed symptoms of 
the condition started before Mrs G took out the policy and pre-existing conditions werent 
covered by the policy. After Mrs G complained Building Block accepted the pancreatitis 
wasnt a pre-existing condition. Instead Building Block declined the claim as it said the 
symptoms of pancreatitis first showed in early January 2020 so the treatment claimed for 
was outside of the 365 day period of cover for the condition.
Mrs G complained to us. She said the early 2020 vet records stated her dog had colitis and 
didnt mention pancreatitis. Her regular vet had written to Building Block to say her dog 
hadnt been treated for pancreatitis until seen by specialist vet in 2021 but Building Block 
had ignored the letter. She believed Building Block hadnt understood the difference between 
the treatment of colitis and the treatment of pancreatitis.
Mrs G wants Building Block to pay her claim and compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience caused by it making errors in assessing and declining the claim.
Our investigator said Building Block had seemed to confuse the treatment of colitis and
pancreatitis so it had unfairly declined the claim. He recommended Building Block pay the
claim to the policy limit of £1,000 less the excess and co-payment. He also recommended
Building Block pay Mrs G £150 for her unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by
its handling of the claim.
Building Block disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint but for different 
reasons and with a different outcome than our investigator recommended. I said:
I have to decide whether Building Block fairly and reasonably declined the claim and gave 
reasonable service, and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Building Block accepted it couldnt decline the claim on the basis that pancreatitis was a pre-
existing condition. For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think the evidence from the vet notes 
show that Mrs Gs dogs did have symptoms of pancreatitis before she took out the policy in 
November 2018 so the pancreatitis wasnt a pre-existing condition.
Ultimately Building Block declined the claim because Mrs Gs dogs vet notes of 14 February 
2020 said:
From story it sounds like poss colitis over last 6-8ww. Intermittent dfarrh very diet 
dependent.. slimy stool at best.  Abdo v noisy.
Building Block understood from that vet note that the dogs symptoms had been ongoing for 
6-8 weeks before 14 February 2020 which would take the start of symptoms to early January 
2020 at the latest. As the treatment claimed for was from 15 January 2021 the claim 
treatment would fall outside of the 365 day period of cover if those symptoms had been 
symptoms of pancreatitis.
Building Block isnt saying that the conditions of colitis and pancreatitis are the same. Its 
saying that the dogs symptoms, which were initially diagnosed as colitis, were really 
symptoms of pancreatitis even though pancreatitis wasnt diagnosed until much later. But 
Ive considered all the vet evidence and I dont think thats a reasonable conclusion for 
Building Block to make.
In February 2020 and April 2020 Mrs Gs dog was seen by his regular vet with the only 
symptoms being with his stools. On both occasions the vet recorded colitis as the likely 
cause.
It was only from July 2020 that the dogs showed discomfort and on 16 July the vet noted that 
the dog could have chronic pancreatitis. In December 2020 the dog was seen by the vet due 
to discomfort, although on that occasion a lumbar issue was suspected. On 15 January 2021 
the dog went to the regular vet due to pyrexia, abnormal respiratory sounds and lethargy. 
Those were very different symptoms to the dogs February 2020 symptoms.
The dog was referred to the specialist vet as an emergency. The specialist vets report of 
15 January 2021 said the results of investigations were compatible with acute pancreatitis 
although chronic pain couldnt be disregarded. He recommended reassessment four weeks 
later. On 17 February 2021 the specialist vet saw the dog again, the test results were 
unremarkable and the vet reports conclusion was that the dog was doing well and has 
improved markedly. So it seems the specialist vet considered that acute pancreatitis was
the problem in January 2021.
The letter of 13 May 2021 from the dogs regular vet said:
As can be seen from the notes made over the last few years which you already have
and which will, for clarity, accompany this. There has never been any suspicion or
mention of pancreatitis until considered by (the specialist vet) earlier this year. He
has been seen and treated for ear infections, lameness and colitis but never 
pancreatitis. 
I think the evidence from the vet notes suggest that the dogs symptoms in February and 
April 2020 related to the separate condition of colitis and that the symptoms of pancreatitis 
started in July 2020 at the earliest. I think the treating regular vets letter is strong evidence 
that Mrs Gs dog did have the separate condition of colitis. They treated the dog and its 
reasonable for me to consider that they would have known if the February 2020 were symptoms of pancreatitis rather than the separate condition of colitis. I dont think theres 
sufficient evidence for Building Block to reasonably conclude that the symptoms seen in 
February 2020 were the start of the symptoms of pancreatitis.
That means I dont think Building Block fairly declined the claim on the basis that the 
treatment claimed for fell outside the 365 day period of cover for pancreatitis. I think the fair 
and reasonable outcome is for Building Block to pay the claim to the policy limit of £1,000 
and if Mrs Gs already paid the vet it should add interest as Ive detailed below.
Our investigator said Building Block should pay the claim to the policy limit of £1,000 less the 
£90 excess less 15% co-payment, so payment to Mrs G would be £773.50. But I think the 
fair outcome is for Building Block to pay Mrs G £1,000 (the policy limit) for her claim without 
deducting the £90 or co-payment excess. The policy says the excess and co-payment arent 
insured but I dont think thats clear enough that Mrs G would never be able to actually 
receive the maximum policy limit of £1,000 under the policy because of how the excess and 
co-payment would be applied. And we generally dont think its fair and reasonable when the 
claim is for more than the policy limit, as here, for an insurer to deduct the excess from the 
policy limit otherwise the consumer will never be able to claim up to the limit.
I think Building Blocks handling of this claim could have been much better. There wasnt any 
evidential basis for the reasoning for its initial decline of the claim and it could have better 
explained its alternative reasoning for the decline to Mrs G. I think its fair for Building Block 
to pay Mrs G compensation for her distress and inconvenience it unnecessarily caused and 
that £150 is a reasonable amount.
Responses to my provisional decision
Building Block and Mrs G both said they had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Building Block and Mrs G have no further comments I have no reason to change my 
mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional decision and this decision I dont think 
Building Block fairly declined the claim and I dont think it gave Mrs G reasonable service. 
I uphold the complaint and Building Block must put things right as Ive detailed below. 
Putting things right
Building Block must pay Mrs G £1,000 for her claim which is the policy limit for her vet fees 
claim. If Mrs Gs already paid the vet it should add interest as Ive detailed below. 
Building Block must also pay Mrs G £150 compensation for her distress and inconvenience 
its handling of the claim caused.My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to pay Mrs G:
£1,000 which is the policy limit for her vet fees claim. If Mrs Gs already paid the vet 
fees interest* must be added at 8% simple a year from the date she paid the fees to 
the day of settlement, and
£150 compensation for her distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim 
caused. 
*If Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs G how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman