DRN-3097477
The complaint
Mr R complains that after he applied for a credit card with Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard, he was told the application was successful, but then Barclays asked him for 
more information. Mr R said the card had been mis-sold, but Barclays wouldnt cancel it.
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit card account with Barclays. He said he was told the application was 
successful, and all Barclays needed was his signature. But he said then Barclays asked him 
for more information. It wanted him to prove his income. Mr R said that this wasnt part of the 
terms of the account, and he wouldnt have entered into this agreement if it had been clear 
that Barclays might ask for this.
Mr R said that he asked Barclays to close the account within the 14-day cooling off period, 
but it didnt close the account. He also said he rang, and spent a considerable amount of 
time on the phone, but that didnt help either.
Mr R wanted Barclays to close the account, and treat it as if it had never been opened. To 
do that, he wanted Barclays to remove all trace of this account having been opened from his 
credit file, although he said that it could leave the credit search that was necessary to 
process his application. And he wanted Barclays to pay compensation for the amount of time 
that hed spent trying to sort this out, and the distress he said this had all caused him. 
Barclays said it had opened an account for Mr R with an initial credit limit of £200. But this 
was just temporary. It then asked him for proof of his income. Barclays said that it was clear 
on the application that Mr R had completed that it may do this. It said checking income was 
part of being a responsible lender.
Barclays said it understood that Mr R had asked it to close his account over email, but email 
wasnt a secure method of communication. So it didnt close the account because it couldnt 
be sure this request came from him.
Barclays had asked him to ring or write instead, but it said that it hadnt received any request 
from him to close the account by a secure method of communication. Barclays said it 
understood Mr R had found trying to contact it quite difficult and frustrating, and it had 
apologised to him for this.
Finally Barclays said it had closed Mr Rs account, because he didnt respond to its request 
for further information. It wouldnt remove details of the account from his credit file. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Barclays to say it needed Mr R to provide evidence that he earned the 
amount hed declared on his application form. And our investigator said Barclays had shown 
us evidence that its application process does explain this will sometimes be needed. So he 
didnt think the application process was misleading.
Our investigator said that he understood Mr R found it frustrating when Barclays didnt close 
his account for him, but he said that Barclays followed its own procedures for protecting Mr 
Rs security, which he thought was reasonable. Mr R hadnt contacted Barclays by one of 
the secure methods it had asked him to use, so he thought Barclays didnt have to close the 
account in response to Mr Rs request. And he also didnt think Barclays was wrong then to 
close Mr Rs account when he didnt provide the information it had asked for.
Mr R didnt agree. He said that our investigator had said he was unhappy about Barclays 
declining his application, but it didnt do that. And he said that wed found that because 
Barclays included a statement on its website, it was entitled to use this statement to justify its 
handling of his account, even though no such or similar statement was present in the credit 
agreement he signed. He said the complaint he made was mainly that hed made a number 
of calls trying to close his account, and those had been fruitless. Mr R said hed offered to 
send us recordings of those calls.
Mr R said if we found in favour of Barclays, he would be left with the short-term existence of 
a credit account with a very low credit limit on his credit file. He said that was an anomaly, 
and he was worried that a mortgage application he planned to make would be affected. 
Mr R wanted us to reconsider.
Our investigator asked Barclays about this, and it replied to say it didnt think it had been 
unfair, it had made clear as part of the application process that it might ask for further 
information. It explained further how the pandemic had affected its call centres, which were 
previously all located overseas. Those call centres had all been forced to close.
Barclays had put other arrangements in place to try to continue the service, but it accepted 
that there had been problems with this. Barclays said the Financial Conduct Authority has 
warned bank customers there may be difficulties in contacting many banks by phone, and 
unfortunately it was no different. It repeated that it had apologised to Mr R for this. And 
Barclays said that whilst it cannot speak for other lenders, it wouldnt take a negative view of 
a credit account which had been closed quickly, if Mr R was asking it for lending.
Our investigator wrote to Mr R again, but said he hadnt changed his mind. Mr R wrote 
again, to say that he had managed to speak to Barclays, but it just hadnt closed his account 
when he did so. And he sent us the call recordings hed previously offered.
Our investigator listened to those calls. He said the first one went through to a member of 
branch staff, who was unable to help Mr R, and he was advised to call the complaints line. 
The second call connected Mr R with someone who told him that hed come through to the 
wrong department, and he would try to connect Mr R with the right department. Mr R then 
decided to ring back, rather than continue to hold. And on the third call, Mr R was on hold for 
most of the call.
Our investigator said that Mr R had never managed to get through to the right department to 
cancel his card. So he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he had followed the bank's instructions to the letter in seeking to 
close the account, and used the customer service contact details which the bank provided 
for these purposes. And the reason the bank did not close the account was a service 
delivery failure. Mr R said that wed agreed with all that, but had then concluded that, rather 
than the bank being responsible for its service delivery failure, he was. Mr R said that he 
shouldnt be held responsible for not being able to get through to the correct department.
Because no agreement was reached, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Barclays said that it had warned Mr R that he may be asked to prove his income, as 
part of the card application he made. Its shown us the screenshots which say this. 
So, although I know Mr R said that he wouldnt have applied for the card if hed 
known this could happen, I do think Barclays had told Mr R it might ask for this 
information, and that it did so before he entered into any agreement with it.
Barclays opened an account for Mr R, with a limit of £200. It said at this point that Mr 
R only had to sign the agreement, and his application would be opened. Mr R said 
this was misleading, because he thought he wouldnt be asked for anything more. 
But Barclays has shown us it did open the account. I think Barclays did what it said it 
would, at this stage.
Barclays said opening Mr Rs account and putting a £200 limit in place was a 
temporary step. It wanted Mr R to show it proof of his income, so it asked for that. 
Barclays has said this is part of being a responsible lender. And I agree with that. 
What Barclays was asking Mr R to send it, is information it may wish to consider, 
under the rules covering responsible lending.
Barclays has said Mr R didnt supply this information. So it closed his account. Under 
the terms of Mr Rs account, it is allowed to close his account if it gives him at least 
two months notice. Barclays has shown us that it wrote to Mr R on 12 October 2020 
to say it would be closing Mr Rs account in line with this provision, and it said it 
closed Mr Rs account on 13 December. I think Barclays acted in line with the terms 
of Mr Rs account when it did this.
Mr R says Barclays should have closed his account when he asked it to, and it 
shouldve done so under his right to withdraw from the credit agreement. Hes 
stressed that he wanted to make sure that there was no record of this account on his 
credit file, and he had understood that exercising his right to withdraw from the 
agreement would achieve this.
Barclays terms do acknowledge Mr Rs right to withdraw. Those terms ask him to 
call or write, if he wished to do so, within 14 days of receiving his first card. I think 
write here means write a letter, not an email. And I think it was reasonable for 
Barclays not to act on the emails that Mr R sent, asking it to close his account. I think 
that both because this is in line with the terms of his account, and because I agree 
that Barclays couldnt be sure that this request really came from Mr R.
I know that Mr R has told us it took some time for Barclays to respond to his emails, 
but I can see that Barclays apologised for this, and said this was a result of its 
reduced staffing, due to the pandemic. I think the information on how to withdraw 
from the agreement was available to Mr R, through the terms of his account. Those 
are also available online.
Mr R said hed also called, and tried to withdraw from the agreement over the phone. 
But he said that although he did speak to Barclays, it didnt do this for him. He didnt 
think he should be worse off, because he couldnt get through to the right person.Mr R also told us he received his card on 21 August 2020. And he made three calls, 
which he has supplied recordings of. I understand that Mr R had great difficulty in 
getting through to anyone at Barclays who could help him, and having listened to 
these calls myself, I appreciate that this would have been frustrating for Mr R. But all 
three of these calls were made on 28 September. By this time, Mr R was well outside 
of the time that the relevant law, and the terms of his account, allow for withdrawal 
from the agreement hed made with Barclays.
Mr R could still have closed his account at this time. But he didnt manage to speak 
to anyone who was able to do that for him. So, instead, his account was closed by 
Barclays, and this took effect in mid December. Because Mr R was already too late 
to withdraw from the agreement, I havent been able to establish that Mr R has been 
substantively disadvantaged by the fact that his account was closed in December, 
not September. And, although I appreciate that the calls he made were frustrating for 
him, Barclays has both apologised for this, and explained this is as a result of 
circumstances beyond its control.
Ive considered Mr Rs arguments carefully, but I dont think that Barclays has been 
unfair or unreasonable. And I dont think it has to remove the record of this account 
from Mr Rs credit file now. I know that Mr R will be disappointed, but I dont think his 
complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclays acknowledged my provisional decision, but said it had nothing to add. Mr R didnt 
reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman