DRN-3436315
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K say that The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland (BOI) treated 
them unfairly and its customer service was poor when dealing with their buy-to-let (BTL) 
mortgage account as it reached the end of its term.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 16 March 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. Secondly, what happened really isnt in 
dispute, so I dont need to analyse the events in order to determine why a complaint has 
been made. Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any 
information that might lead to Mr and Mrs K being identified.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs K had an interest-only BTL mortgage with BOI which was in two parts. 
One part was due to expire in January 2021, the other  a further advance  in March 2021. 
The total amount borrowed was approximately £96,000.
In the months prior to the expiry dates of the mortgage, Mr and Mrs K had various 
discussions with BOI about their options. Mr and Mrs K wanted to extend the mortgage term. 
They also decided to make overpayments to reduce the loan-to-value ratio (LTV). A 
mortgage illustration was issued for a new product, but after a change in lending criteria, BOI 
was unable to offer Mr and Mrs K another mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs K complained about a number of issues:
they were threatened with legal action by BOI;
the bank referred them to an intermediaries website rather than one for BTL 
customers;
they werent aware there were two separate end dates for the two parts of the 
mortgage account;
BOI failed to offer them advice;
their request for a term extension and product transfer was denied;
their payment proposals were rejected;
customer service was poor, particularly in relation to times left on hold, termination of 
calls and failure to answer Mr Ks questions.
BOI issued a number of final response letters addressing these issues as they were raised, 
but ultimately didnt uphold any part of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Dissatisfied with the banks 
responses, Mr and Mrs K contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator 
looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr K has made some further points, which I summarise below:
BOI has never mentioned that it was suspending any legal proceedings;
staff he spoke to on the telephone were rude and unprofessional;
he should not have been referred to an intermediaries website, even though this 
website is accessible by the general public;
he didnt ask BOI for advice, but simply wanted enough information to make an 
informed decision;
the request for a term extension and a new product was made before BOI changed 
its lending criteria, and the delay in this going through was down to the bank;
his offer to make overpayments was initially given a verbal positive reaction, but was 
later declined;
BOI hasnt treated him and Mrs K fairly.
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said at the outset, Ive summarised the background to the case. But Ive read everything 
provided by Mr and Mrs K and BOI, and Ive listened to the call recordings.
Term end : The loan offers, both for the main advance and the further advance, show the 
length of time over which each part of the loan will run. The annual statements state the 
remaining number of months in the terms for both advances.
This is a commercial loan, Mr and Mrs K are experienced property investors with 
approximately 28 BTL properties in their portfolio, and Mr K is, I understand, a qualified 
mortgage broker. I would have expected Mr and Mrs K, as commercial investors, to be 
aware of when the liabilities for the portfolio were due to be met. The bank provided them 
with information about the end dates of the two parts of their mortgage, and if Mr and Mrs K 
didnt notice these were different dates, I cant hold BOI responsible for this.
Payment proposals: Mr K put various proposals to BOI which he says were unfairly 
rejected. During a call with BOI Mr K suggested making a £2,500 overpayment. The agent 
Mr K was speaking to thought this might be acceptable, but it was later declined. Im 
satisfied his was a decision BOI was allowed to make.
I note that Mr K wasnt able to arrange a re-mortgage with another lender, due to a short 
lease on the property. Mr K applied to extend the lease and made offers of settlement to BOI 
to repay the outstanding mortgage over, firstly three years, then two years. Mr K believes 
BOI treated him and Mrs K unfairly in rejecting these proposals. 
I agree with Mr K that BOI is required to treat borrowers fairly. This doesnt, however, mean 
that BOI is obliged to agree to any proposals put forward. In commercial transactions, BOI is 
allowed to decide on its own risk exposure. I think the bank gave fair consideration to Mr Ks 
proposals, and, having done so, BOI was entitled to reject them. I appreciate Mr K thinks this 
wasnt fair, but I have to disagree.
Thats because the term of the contract to which Mr K had agreed was that the mortgage 
debt was repayable in full at the end of the term. Ive noted what Mr K has said about how 
complicated his finances are, but as a commercial borrower, it was up to him and Mrs K to ensure that they had funds in place to repay the bank when the debt fell due in January 2020 
and March 2020. 
Intermediary website: This is a BOI website designed for mortgage intermediaries, but 
which is open and available to the general public. Mr K said that, when he was referred to 
the intermediary website, all he wanted was information about what rates were available 
depending on LTV. 
BOI doesnt offer an advised service for BTL borrowers, and so it was up to Mr and Mrs K 
either to research available products themselves online or to speak to a mortgage broker 
who could source a BOI BTL mortgage product for them. I can find no detriment to 
Mr and Mrs K in BOI referring them to this website. It provides detailed information about 
available products as well as information about lending criteria in place at the time, including 
LTV and interest rates, so all the information Mr K was asking about. 
Change of lending criteria: BOI is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that BOI 
makes in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular 
lending assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly 
discretionary matters for BOIs own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with.
I appreciate BOI had issued a mortgage illustration on 16 July 2020. It states clearly that it is 
only valid for that date, after which it may change. It is not an offer of loan and it states that 
there is no obligation on BOI to offer a loan.
After the illustration was issued, BOI changed its lending criteria for BTL borrowers; the bank 
would no longer offer BTL mortgages to borrowers with more than 3 BTL properties. 
Mr and Mrs K had, according to Mr K, 28 BTL properties, which was their main source of 
income. As such they no longer met BOIs lending criteria and so the bank wasnt able to 
offer them a new mortgage.
I appreciate this was disappointing for Mr and Mrs K  particularly as the issues with the 
lease were making it difficult to find an alternative lender. However, Im satisfied that BOI 
worked with Mr and Mrs K to give them time to sort out the lease issues and put the property 
on the market.
Threat of legal action: I fully understand that Mr and Mrs K were upset to be told that, if the 
mortgage wasnt repaid, BOI could take legal action. Ive not been provided with any letters 
by Mr and Mrs K that state BOI has referred the matter to its solicitors, and I understand no 
legal action has been commenced. Lenders are required, however, to ensure that borrowers 
are aware of the consequences of defaulting on their mortgage contract. 
As this is an unregulated commercial mortgage, once the term expired, payment was due in 
full and the forbearance in the regulations for residential mortgage borrowers doesnt apply. 
The mortgage terms allow BOI to appoint Law of Property Act Receivers in the event of 
default, to manage or sell the property. Alternatively, BOI is entitled to start possession 
action. This would be a last resort, and only if it became apparent that there was no 
possibility of the mortgage debt being repaid in full within a reasonable time. 
However, rather than appointing Receivers or taking legal action, BOI has, I find, worked 
with Mr and Mrs K to try to find a solution. This does not mean that BOI is required to accept 
Mr and Mrs Ks proposals for repayment over a number of years, where repayment is due in full. Nor is BOI expected to let matters drift for many months while attempts are made to sell 
the property.
Customer service: Ive listened to the available call recordings, which the investigator set 
out in detail in her letter of 16 March 2022. Im not going to repeat all the details here. 
However, Im not persuaded that BOI staff were rude, insensitive or cut off calls. I can see 
there was one call which ended when Mr Ks phone battery ran out. There were also longer 
than normal waiting times, due to the pandemic. But overall Im satisfied that BOI did its best 
to answer Mr Ks queries. The only error I can find is when he was referred to the 
intermediaries website rather than the public website, but as I said above, no detriment 
resulted from this.
My final decision
I know Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman