DRN-3244461
The complaint
Mr H says the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal), previously trading as 
Portafina LLP, to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension funds, first into a personal 
pension with Scottish Life, and subsequently into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
with Montpelier Pension Administration Services (MPAS), and to recommend investments 
in unregulated and specialist investments, was unsuitable.
Mr H is represented by Anthony Phillip James & Co Ltd (APJ).
What happened
Portal offered Mr H a pension review in March 2010. Information was gathered from him 
about his circumstances, objectives and matters such as his attitude to risk.
Portal issued a Pension Release Report dated 5 March 2010, it identified Mr Hs objectives, 
including to:
-Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take 
your Tax-Free Cash entitlement immediately.
-Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require 
an income in your retirement.
-Ensure that you have a good awareness of investment opportunities available to 
you.
-Ensure your portfolio reflects your current risk & reward profile.
-Be kept informed of the performance of your portfolio.
-Have your portfolio rebalanced in line with your risk & reward profile.
Ultimately Mr H was persuaded to undergo Portals pension release process. He 
transferred his DB scheme funds worth over £121,000 into a personal pension with Scottish 
Life.
Presumably this initial step happened before the end of the 2009/10 tax-year, because after 
this the minimum age for accessing pension benefits increased from 50 (Mr Hs age at the 
time) to 55. No account transaction details have been provided by either party to confirm 
the position, but it appears around this time Mr H received tax-free cash (TFC) of around 
£30,000. And Portal received initial fees of 5% of the value of his fund.
Portals pension release process continued over the following few months. In September 
2010 it gave Mr H advice, this time to switch his Scottish Life pension into an MPAS SIPP. 
This took effect a month later when about £86,600 was moved between these providers. 
The reduced value of his funds would be accounted for by the earlier TFC and fee 
payments.
By the end of 2010 Mr Hs pension had been invested into three separate specialist funds, 
costing over £81,000. This left Mr H with a cash balance in his account of around £4,800.
Mr Hs representative complained to Portal in December 2019 about the advice it had 
given him to transfer his DB pension funds. APJ raised several concerns about what had 
happened in 2010. For example, it didnt think Portal had shown the transaction was 
demonstrably in his best interests. It didnt think it had taken into account his experience or 
circumstances, nor his risk appetite. And APJ said Portal had failed to meet its regulatory 
obligations.
Portal sent Mr H its final response on 27 January 2020. It argued that hed brought his 
complaint too late and so this Service couldnt consider it. An Investigator set out why we 
could look at the case, but Portal disagreed. So, the matter was passed to an Ombudsman 
for review. He also concluded that we could look at Mr Hs complaint.
Whenever a case comes to an Ombudsman for a decision on the merits of a case, they 
must still review jurisdiction. Having done so I agree with the findings and conclusions set 
out by the Ombudsman in January 2021. I wont rehearse those matters of fact again in full. 
I think the following extracts from his decision neatly summarise the position:
Mr H says that he didnt become aware of problems with his pension investments until the 
middle part of 2017. He says that he hadnt received statements about his investments for 
two or three years before. But he says a statement he received in mid-2017 showed the 
loss of his pension investments.
Portal has said that two separate letters it sent to Mr H should have made him aware that 
there might be problems with the advice hed been given. It says that in July 2012 it wrote 
to Mr H to tell him that one of his investments was seeking support for making changes to 
the structure of the fund. The letter went on to say that the fund manager believed that 
there might be difficulties in the fund meeting the projected returns. But importantly it also 
told Mr H that the changes being proposed were designed to improve the returns and 
reduce the overall investment risk. It encouraged him to vote in support of the changes.
Portal says it also wrote to Mr H in April 2013 to advise him that another of the 
investments it had recommended was currently in the process of winding down. It told him 
that the value of his investment would be paid to his SIPP once that had been completed. 
The letter didnt give any indication of the likely returns, or when they would be realised, 
other than saying the process might take a few months. But that letter also confirmed that 
dividend payments would shortly commence from the investment it wrote to Mr H about in 
the previous year. It said those dividends would be approximately 4% of his investment 
and continue to be paid at that rate every six months.
I dont agree with Portal that either of these letters should have given Mr H cause to think 
there were insoluble problems with the investments hed been recommended. The letter in 
2012 was optimistic in tone, encouraging Mr H to vote in favour of restructuring proposals 
to improve the returns he would receive. And the letter that was sent in 2013 told him that 
the investment that was winding down would pay him a return in the next few months. I 
think it also important to note that investment only accounted for around 5% of the pension 
savings hed transferred. And the same letter told him that another of the investments was 
about to start paying dividends on his investment
Instead, in the absence of anything directly contradicting what Mr H has said, I find what 
he has told us about only realising he had reason to complain in 2017 to be plausible. I 
conclude that Mr H only reasonably became aware that he had cause for complaint when 
he received an updated valuation in mid-2017. As Mr H made his complaint to Portal within 
three years of that date, I am currently satisfied that the complaint falls within this Services jurisdiction.
This Service can consider Mr Hs case.
In its final response to Mr H, Portal did go on to set out why it thought the advice it had 
given him had been suitable. For example, it noted that its recommendations enabled him 
to meet his objectives. It also said it had been clear that hed suffer a loss of protections 
and it would be extremely unlikely his new arrangements would be able to match the 
benefits from his DB scheme. Portal also made an offer in its letter to safeguard his 
retirement income until issues with his funds had been resolved.
The Investigator recommended that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Portal disagreed 
and so his case was passed to me for review. I issued my provisional decision in December 
2021. As neither party has provided any new evidence or arguments, I see no reason to 
depart from my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Hs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mr H. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G 
in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control 
its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firm like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
At the time of the advice Portal gave Mr H, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewith safeguarded benefits whether to transfera firm should start by assuming 
that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in 
the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, Portal was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with 
the benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr H to be able to 
make an informed decision.
- Give Mr H a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do 
and dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr H understood its comparison and 
how it contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, Portal had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr H on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment 
business carried on for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business 
includes arranging (bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report.
The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% 
of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were invested in a single unregulated collective investment scheme 
(UCIS).
Even if some of the funds Mr H was invested in werent technically a UCIS, they share 
similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid, 
subject to counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are 
relevant to my consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice SIPPs. For example, in 
January 2013 it issued an industry alert which said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when 
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension 
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP 
is not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr H, it wasnt new guidance; it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it when advising Mr H?
In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are several documents relating to Portals transaction with Mr H that are important to 
my consideration, these include the Personal Financial Questionnaire (fact-find) and the 
Pension Release Report (PRR).
At the time of Portals advice in March 2010 Mr H was 50 years old. He was unemployed 
and receiving jobseekers allowance, although hes confirmed he was actively looking for 
work. Mr H had a credit card with an outstanding balance of £7,000, on which he was 
making payments of £155 per month. There wasnt a detailed income and expenditure 
analysis, although its recorded he had a monthly budget deficit of around £160.
Mr H owned his home and didnt have an outstanding mortgage. He had a deferred DB 
pension accrued with a former employer worth about £121,000. He had no other assets or 
liabilities. Neither the fact-find nor the PRR record what income Mr H would require in 
retirement.
The first two objectives Portal recorded for Mr H in this transaction were to:
-Use your existing pension plans to provide an income at a later date and to take 
your Tax-Free Cash entitlement immediately.
-Retain a residual fund that remains invested until such a time that you require 
an income in your retirement.
Portal says Mr H wanted maximum TFC to repay his debts, make home improvements and 
to buy a car to help him secure a job. It said it had explored alternatives for raising funds, 
but he didnt want to go the route of taking out a loan or re-mortgaging his home. And as he 
was unemployed at the time, these werent immediate possibilities.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Hs situation. Hed been through a divorce and consequently 
was in a difficult financial position. Hes confirmed hed wanted TFC from his pension to pay off his debts. But Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me the process it followed was 
thorough, and therefore fair. For example,
- It failed to conduct a detailed income and expenditure analysis. I note his monthly 
budget deficit equated to the amount he was paying off on his credit cards. An 
option available couldve been some form of debt management planning  but this 
doesnt appear to have been explored.
- Mr H has said he was actively seeking employment. The fact-find noted he had 
interviews the following week. And we know he secured a job the following year. 
Employment wouldve had a significant impact on his financial position  but it 
was his immediate position that appears to have dominated Portals advice in 
relation to his pension benefits.
- Theres no record of what income Mr H needed in retirement. Ive seen no 
evidence of an attempt by Portal to get to the bottom of this key question. I think 
this wouldve been important to his being able to take an informed view about 
whether to access TFC from his only pension provision.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr H about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over 
many years are to provide an income in retirement. And when early access to benefits are 
recommended there must be compelling reasons  its not clear that was the cases here.
It was Portals role to discern what Mr Hs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. It hasnt 
demonstrated that it met these obligations.
Turning to the other aspect of Mr Hs main objectives, to provide an income in retirement. 
Leaving aside what we know in hindsight about the investment performance of the funds 
ultimately recommended to him, I have concerns about Portals approach.
I dont think either party would dispute that Mr H wasnt an investment professional or a 
sophisticated investor. Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems he had little 
knowledge or experience of investing. This is important context when I consider what 
happened to him.
I note Portal didnt conduct an analysis of Mr Hs risk appetite prior to recommending he 
transfer his DB scheme benefits. This is highly unusual and perhaps a reflection of the time 
pressure due to changes in regulation related to the minimum age for taking retirement 
benefits in 2010. Nevertheless, this serves to undermine the process.
The risk analysis exercise was conducted subsequently, seemingly based on his response 
to a questionnaire. Portal concluded Mr H had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. 
This was defined in the following terms:
In general, Moderately Adventurous investors are willing to take on investment risk and 
understand that this is crucial in terms of generating long term return. They are willing to 
take risk with a substantial proportion of their available assets.
Looking at Mr Hs responses to the risk profiling questionnaire, its very difficult to 
understand how Portal gained assurance for its assessment. Of the twelve questions he was 
asked to respond to, none elicited a strong response (scoring 1 or 5) and for a third of the 
questions he effectively responded that he didnt know/had no opinion.Further, the risk profiling questionnaire captured that when it came to investments, Mr H 
would rather be safe than sorry. And he disagreed with the statement that he found 
financial matters easy to understand.
I accept Mr Hs responses to some questions mayve indicated a willingness to take risk 
with his funds and that all information gathered needs to be taken together and reviewed. 
But I cant find any proper exploration of what underpinned Portals assessment of his risk 
appetite. From the information available, its puzzling how he ended up being ascribed one 
of the highest risk appetite categories.
It seems Mr Hs answers to the risk questionnaire were fed into a system and dealt with in 
a mechanical manner without further enquiry. But given the basic facts Portal knew about 
his situation - his lack of experience of pensions and investments, his lack of assets and 
the fact that the pension it was advising him about was his only retirement provision  it 
shouldve known he had a low capacity for loss.
However, Portal went on in September 2010 to advise Mr H to invest his residual pension 
monies into unregulated and specialised funds, the bulk of which were related to hotel 
development, some overseas. It said 95% of his pension should be invested in the two 
following funds:
The Raithwaites Hypa Fund is a specialist investment in a five star hotel development in 
Whitby, Yorkshire designed to yield 8% per annum. In addition, the fund has secured a 
discount to current market value which means that the investment should be worth 25% 
more than the amount, you invest once the Hotel opens in August 2011. Our due diligence 
research evaluates this as a low to medium risk investment which will run over an 
approximate 7-year period and should provide an average compound return of 11% once 
capital growth and income are taken into account.
The Hypa Asia Fund invests in "Off-Plan" villas and Hotel Rooms which will be resold at 
higher prices once buildings complete. The developments are all financed by local banks 
and the fund is designed to run over a three year period and return between 50%-100% 
on the original investment.
As well as creating a serious lack of diversification in how Mr Hs funds were being 
invested, Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that he was a sufficiently experienced 
investor to appreciate the risks he was taking on. Ive seen little by way of specific warnings 
given to Mr H around counterparties, development and valuation uncertainty.
More generally, Im not satisfied that Mr H was properly informed that by moving away 
from his DB scheme and using the funds to invest, he was moving from a situation where 
his former employer was bearing the risks related to the provision of his retirement income 
to one where he was taking on that risk.
Portal has failed to provide a copy of the transfer value analysis report (TVAS). I dont 
know if it shared this with Mr H at the time. However, in its PRR it did tell him the following:
You are aware that by taking this amount now, you will not have a guaranteed pension 
benefit, which you do currently have through your defined benefitpension scheme. You 
stated that you are aware of the benefits that you are giving up, and that you wish to 
proceed on this basis, even though I have advised that it is extremely unlikely that we will be 
able to match the required return (the critical yield of 13.3%).
Portals advice was given during the period when this Service published 'discount rates' on 
our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been 
considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in Mr Hs case.
The critical yield from investments required to match his DB scheme when he was 65 was 
13.3%. This compares with an annual discount rate of about 6.4% per year given it was 
around 14 years to Mr Hs 65th birthday. The shortfall is clearly significant. The comparable 
growth rates this Service used were based on a typical investment spread across shares 
and bonds. So, its arguable Mr Hs assessed appetite for risk meant his investment 
portfolio mightve had an outside chance of big returns sufficient to make up some of the 
gap.
But Im not persuaded by this argument. And to be fair, neither was Portal given the extract 
Ive copied from the PRR. Based on its own analysis at the time, the transfer of Mr Hs DB 
scheme fund was highly likely to erode the value of his benefits for retirement.
Although Portal argues it was open about the consequences of the transfer for Mr Hs 
pension benefits, it hasnt been able to provide the information and analysis it gave him 
setting these matters out in a clear and fair manner. For example, we dont know:
- What his requirements were for an income in retirement.
- What his DB scheme offered, including the guarantees and protections. Nor 
what flexibilities were available, for example in terms of early access to 
benefits.
- How the features and benefits of his DB scheme compared directly with 
the arrangements Portal was recommending.
Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its recommendations rather than providing 
effective advice about what was in Mr Hs best interests concerning his valuable retirement 
funds.
Portal was paid a lot of money to provide best advice to Mr H. Charges are another area of 
concern. Its recorded that he was charged a 5% commission for the initial advice. There 
was a 1% ongoing advice fee for Portal. There were fees for the SIPP provider. And there 
were management fees associated with each of the funds he was investing in.
Portal failed to provide a clear analysis of the charges he would incur in the new 
arrangements compared to his former DB scheme.
Conclusion
Portal shouldve provided Mr H with an explicit recommendation not to proceed with the 
transfer of his DB scheme benefits into the Scottish Life personal pension, and then into the 
MPAS SIPP, the purpose of which was to invest in a high-risk portfolio.
I say this because final salary pension benefits are valuable, and the starting assumption for 
Portal shouldve been to advise him not to transfer, and then to only proceed if there was a 
demonstrably good case. Such a case wasnt made in terms of his circumstances, his main 
objectives or his outlook. Instead the advice to transfer appears to have been made in 
relation to a narrow set of likely relatively transitory circumstances.
Mr Hs DB scheme represented his only retirement provision. Theres no evidence he had 
experience of pension and investment matters. His risk appetite, including his capacity for 
loss, was significantly overstated by Portal. His immediate financial situation was more 
likely than not going to improve in the short to medium term. And there appears to have been no serious attempt to provide advice about the options available to him to address his 
immediate challenges. Nor an open and clear explanation of the ongoing detrimental 
consequences of transferring his pension benefits.
Instead, Portal recommended the transfer of Mr Hs DB benefits, the driver being his 
immediate want of TFC. In doing this, it was aware he was being exposed to significant risks 
in the investments it was facilitating. And it knew he would be materially worse off in 
retirement. It hasnt done enough to satisfy me this was the right thing to do.
Had Portal given Mr H suitable advice, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer. Its 
unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against the 
recommendations received.
I dont think the transfer of Mr Hs pension funds could sensibly be regarded as fair to him. 
As such I think Portal failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing him with 
advice and making the arrangements. So, taking all the circumstances of the case into 
account, its reasonable to uphold this complaint against Portal Financial Services LLP and 
for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr H needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in now - or as close to that as 
reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold Portal Financial Services 
LLP responsible for.
If Portal had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Mr H wouldve transferred his DB 
pension, first into a personal pension with Scottish Life, and subsequently into a SIPP with 
MPAS, and the recommended investments in unregulated and specialist funds. And he 
wouldnt have suffered the financial loss hes facing. I think its most likely hed have 
remained a deferred member of his DB scheme.
So Portal Financial Services LLP needs to do the following.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think 
are appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mr H 
the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Portal pays Mr H the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Portal doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
I consider Mr H wouldve remained in his former DB scheme. Portal Financial Services 
LLP should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if 
possible be paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Portal to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is 
data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr H to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of Portal. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for 
the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations 
should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to 
be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal may ask Mr H to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr H to provide an undertaking, payment 
of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the 
SIPP.Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr H can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portal pay Mr H an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Further information
Some examples of how calculations should be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'
Distress and inconvenience
In addition, I consider that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mr H compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £250. This is in recognition of the failings Ive identified and 
the impact these have had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. I now require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman