DRN-3407229
The complaint
Mr P complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as Rate Setter unfairly terminated his
loan account and reported a default on his credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Rate Setter approved a loan for Mr P in November 2020. Mr P made his contractual 
monthly payments until April 2021. Mr P spoke with Rate Setter and explained there were 
issues receiving his pay from his employer. Over the following months, Mr P spoke with 
Rate Setter several times and advised he was seeking new employment.
On 14 July 2021 a default notice was issued. On the same day, Rate Setter agreed to 
place a two month hold on collections activity after Mr P notified it hed started a new job. 
On 15 September 2021, the day after the collections hold ended, Rate Setter tried to get in 
contact with Mr P.
On 17 September 2021 Rate Setter sent Mr P another default notice that said there were 
arrears of £1,215.54 that should be cleared by 3 October 2021 to avoid the loan being 
terminated.
On 28 September 2021 Mr P called Rate Setter and agreed to start his normal payment 
again from the following month. The call handler didnt notify Mr P that his loan was about 
to close, leading to a default being recorded on his credit file. On 28 October 2021 Mr P 
emailed Rate Setter and said he wanted to discuss making a reduced payment. Mr P went 
on to speak with Rate Setter and it said his loan had been closed and passed to a debt 
collector.
Mr P complained and Rate Setter sent him a final response. Rate Setter said its agent 
shouldve told Mr P that it was closing his account and reporting a default when he called 
on 28 September 2021 and offered him £30 to apologise. But Rate Setter didnt agree it 
had acted unfairly by closing his account and recording the default.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They upheld
Mr Ps complaint and recommended that Rate Setter remove the default from his credit file 
and pay him £100. Rate Setter asked to appeal so Mr Ps complained has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree Rate Setters call handler made a mistake on 28 September 2021 when they failed to 
notify Mr P his account was due to be closed and defaulted. Mr Ps account had been in 
arrears for around six months at this stage and I understand he wanted to arrange for his 
payments to resume when he called. But Ive reached a different view to the investigator.
Whilst I agree Rate Setter made a mistake, I dont think the error impacted whether Mr Ps 
loan would close. Ill explain why.
Industry guidelines say a business can move to close a loan and record a default when 
payments havent been made for around three to six months. In this case, Mr Ps first 
missed payment came about in April 2021 and no contractual monthly payments were 
made before the loan was closed at the end of September 2021. I can see a payment of 
£30 was made in June 2021, but that didnt have the effect of substantially reducing the 
level of arrears. So Im satisfied there was a sufficient level of arrears on Mr Ps loan to 
meet industry standards when Rate Setter closed it.
Businesses need to treat customers experiencing financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. I can see Rate Setter gave Mr P breathing space and applied collections 
holds. On 14 July 2021, Rate Setter agreed to place a hold on the loan after Mr P 
explained he had returned to work. But following the end of the two month hold, no contact 
from Mr P was received. Rate Setters contact notes show it tried to get in contact with Mr 
P without success. So Rate Setter issued an updated default notice on 17 September 2021 
that said Mr P needed to pay £1,215.54 by 3 October 2021.
When Mr P called on 28 September 2021 he agreed to make his contractual monthly 
payment the following month, but didnt reach an agreement to repay the arrears. I agree 
the call handler failed to offer the right advice or information to Mr P. But to tell Rate Setter 
to remove the default, Id need to be satisfied it was the way his call was handled on 28 
September 2021 that was the main reason his loan defaulted. And Id need to be satisfied 
Mr P was in a position to clear those arrears before 3 October 2021, the date given in Rate 
Setters default notice.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I havent been persuaded the way the call was handled 
was the key issue that led to his loan closing. At the point Mr P called on 28 September 
2021 there were arrears of £1,215.54 on the account. I note that on 28 October 2021 Mr P 
sent Rate Setter an email asking to reduce his monthly payment. That indicates Mr P 
wasnt in a position to restart his normal loan payment or repay arrears. Mr P later found 
out his loan had been closed and passed to a debt collector. In my view, the information 
available indicates the closure of Mr Ps loan wasnt related to the way his call was handed 
on 28 September 2021. Im satisfied Mr Ps loan was fairly defaulted due to the arrears.
That being said, I can see the way Mr Ps call was handled has caused him a reasonable 
level of distress and inconvenience. I dont doubt that Mr P thought hed agreed more time to 
bring his account up to date. But for the reasons Ive give above, Im satisfied Rate Setters 
decision to close and default Mr Ps account at this point was reasonable. I think its fair that 
Rate Setter compensates Mr P for the trouble and upset caused by the way it dealt with his 
call. Our investigator recommended an award of £100 but I think £200 more fairly reflects the 
upset caused. So whilst I dont intend to tell Rate Setter to credit file to remove the default, I 
do intend to increase the settlement.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr P spoke with our investigator and explained he wouldve borrowed money from family to 
repay the arrears and avoid the default if hed been given the right information on 28 
September 2021. Rate Setter confirmed it had nothing further to add. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr P for his comments in response to my provisional decision. Im very sorry 
to disappoint Mr P but I havent been persuaded to change my view in this case. I agree the 
call handler on 28 September 2021 failed to make it clear Mr Ps account would shortly close 
and default. But, as I said in my provisional decision, that came after a period of around six 
months with no payments being made. 
Mr P has told us he wouldve approached family members for the money to pay back 
arrears. But given the length of time the account had been in arrears and correspondence 
Rate Setter sent Mr P about what it intended to do, I havent been persuaded it was unfair of 
it to close the loan and record a default on his credit file. I still dont think Rate Setter should 
remove the default from Mr Ps credit file, for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. 
I still think the fairest way to resolve Mr Ps complaint is for Rate Setter to pay him £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the way his call was handled on 28 September 
2021. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Retail Money Market Ltd trading as 
RateSetter to pay Mr P £200 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman