DRN-4140457
The complaint
Mr I complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his private medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr I has private medical insurance with Aviva which started on 5 July 2021. His policy has 
moratorium underwriting which, briefly, means the policy doesnt cover any medical 
conditions or related conditions for which Mr I had symptoms, medical advice or treatment in 
the five years before the policy started. 
In June 2022 Mr I told Aviva he wanted to claim for a private consultation about a mid-
urethra stricture.
Aviva declined the claim. It considered Mr Is medical history and said he had symptoms 
related to the condition before his policy started so under the terms of the policy there was 
no cover for his claim
Mr I complained to us. He said his GP had written to Aviva in July 2022 to tell it that his 
current condition wasnt related to his pre-existing chronic prostatitis.
Our investigator said Aviva had fairly declined the claim.
Mr I disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He added 
The urologists letter of September 2020 which stated hed had a single episode of 
haematuria and that the doctor recommended a flexible cystoscopy wasnt correct as 
he didnt have blood in his urine and there had been a misunderstanding. The letter 
of 26 January 2021 from a named hospital, that Ill refer to as R, showed there had 
been a misunderstanding.
Hed noticed a single speck of blood in June 2020 so his urine wasnt red or bloody. 
His urine was then tested and no blood was found. He hadnt had a cystoscopy 
before his policy started.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but I think Aviva reasonably declined his claim. Ill explain why.
Mr Is policy says Aviva doesnt cover:
treatment of any pre-existing condition, or any related condition, if you had:
 symptoms of
 medication for
 diagnostic tests for
 treatment for, or
 advice about
that condition in the five years before you joined the policy.
The poilcy goes on to say when Aviva would cover such a condition but that only applies if 
theres been no advice or treatment for a continuous two year period after Mr I joined the 
policy. That doesnt apply to Mr I as he made his claim about a year after he joined the 
policy.
I have to decide if Aviva reasonably considered that the medical evidence showed Mr I had 
symptoms of his claimed for condition or related condition in the five years before his policy 
started in 2021.
Ive considered the medical evidence thats been provided. A 2015 letter from a urologist 
referred to Mr Is pain in his perineal and his chronic prostatitis. A letter in 2017 from a 
consultant urologist gave Mr Is diagnosis as chronic prostatitis and pelvic pain syndrome. A 
letter in 2019 from another consultant urologist referred to Mr Is diagnosis as chronic 
prostatitis.
In September 2020 Mr I had a telephone consultation with a consultant urologist. The 
consultants letter of 14 September 2020 refers to Mr I as having flare ups of perineal 
discomfort and says what has traditionally been called prostatitis, has been renamed 
chronic pelvic syndrome as it often has nothing to do with a prostate. The same letter says 
Mr I had a single episode of haematuria and that Mr I should be booked for a cystoscopy.
Hospital R consultants letter of January 2021 refers to Mr I still having rectal, perineal, and 
testicular pain, and says the previous consultant is likely correct that he has chronic pelvic 
pain syndrome. The letter also says in respect of the haematuria Mr I hadnt actually had red 
urine but that he describes about eight months ago seeing some flecks in the urine. The 
letter also says the cystoscopy which was previously suggested hadnt been arranged. 
The above medical letters are from before Mr Is policy started. Im satisfied from the above 
medical evidence that a consultant had recommended Mr I have a cystoscopy due to his 
symptoms but it didnt happen. And, although Mr I hadnt had an amount of blood in his urine 
to turn his urine red, he had told a consultant hed seen flecks of blood in his urine on one 
occasion. Mr I told us hed seen a single speck of blood that time. The doctors have referred 
to the time he saw the flecks as a haematuria. I havent seen evidence that Mr I had a 
negative urine test at the time. But even if the test was negative that doesnt mean blood 
hadnt been present in his urine before the test.After the policy started Mr I saw another consultant urologist in December 2021. The 
consultants letter in December 2021 says Mr I had continuing pain in his perineum, that the 
episode of visible haematuria a couple of years ago wasnt investigated and that the urine 
dip on the day of the December 2021 consultation showed traces of blood. Mr I was referred 
for a cystoscopy.
The result of the cystoscopy is noted in a urologists letter of 11 April 2022. The diagnosis is 
given as chronic pelvic pain/chronic prostatitis. The letter says that when Mr I was last seen: 
he was reported to be suffering with symptoms suggestive of chronic pelvic pain 
syndrome. A flexible cystoscopy was arranged to try to further evaluate his 
symptoms, also due to the fact that he had a previous episode of haematuria.
The letter says the cystoscopy found:
a mid-urethra was relatively inflamed with signs of bleeding and a mildly narrow 
calibre possibly suggestive of a stricture. The overwhelming findings however are 
suggestive of urethritis. I do wonder whether this gentleman has a urethritis and 
whether this is causing all his symptoms. 
Mr Is GPs letter dated 13 June 2022 to a urologist consultant for the private referral details 
the findings of the cystoscopy and says Mr I has asked for a referral for a second opinion for 
concerns about a urethral stricture.
I think from the above medical evidence Aviva reasonably considered that Mr Is claim 
related to symptoms hed had before his policy started. The medical evidence shows that the  
cystoscopy Mr I had in 2022 was arranged to evaluate his symptoms which included 
symptoms hed had before the policy started - his chronic pelvic pain syndrome (also 
referred to as chronic prostatitis) and the previous episode of haematuria.
The consultants letter of 11 April letter 2022 says the results of the cystoscopy show Mr I 
may have urethritis which is causing all his symptoms, which would include symptoms Mr I 
had before the policy started. Whatever medical condition those symptoms are ultimately 
diagnosed as Mr I had those symptoms before the policy started and that means the claim 
isnt covered under the policy terms.
When Mr Is GP completed the claim form on 17 June 2022 he was asked the 
condition/symptoms Mr I was suffering from and answered chronic pelvic pain, dysuria,  
early mid-urethral stricture/ probable urethritis, chronic prostatitis. The form asked the GP 
the date when Mr I first contacted the surgery about the symptoms and the GP answered 
with a date in April 2015. A date in June 2022 is written beside the April 2015 date but its 
not clear to me who wrote the later date. I think the initial information the GP gave in the 
claim form also led Aviva to reasonably consider that Mr Is claim was for a condition which 
showed symptoms before the policy started.
Mr I says his GP wrote to Aviva to say the claim wasnt related to his pre-existing condition. 
The GPs letter of 7 July 2022 to Aviva says Mr I first made contact with the surgery for his 
symptoms of chronic prostatitis in April 2015, which is an ongoing issue. The letter also says 
that Mr Is current issue is chronic pelvic pain, dysuria and he was noted to have mid-urethral 
stricture/probable urethritis on a cystoscopy in 2022. I think Aviva reasonably considered 
that the GPs July 2022 letter wasnt sufficient evidence that Mr I wasnt showing symptoms 
of, or relating to, the claimed for condition before his policy started.
Overall I think Aviva reasonably considered that the medical evidence showed Mr I had 
symptoms of, or relating to, his claimed for condition in the five years before his policy started. So under the policy terms and conditions there was no cover for Mr Is claim and 
Aviva fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman