DRN-3685828
The complaint
Mr C complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr C is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around July 2016, Mr C was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mr C decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In January 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Cs behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr C to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £9,669 to mislead Mr C, as when the 
interest was added the total cost was actually £18,807.40;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr C or that there were any 
other reasons for the claim to be upheld. However, after the CMC had brought this complaint 
to our service on Mr Cs behalf, Shawbrook arranged for an inspection of the property to be 
carried out. That inspection found that the system was not generating enough energy, one of 
the optional extras (the OWL heating control) had not been installed, and that there were 
significant amounts of bird droppings on the panels which might be impairing their 
performance.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr C and found no reason to uphold the complaint. He said that the systems 
failure to generate as much energy as P had said it would at the point of sale was a new 
issue which had not been raised by the CMC in the original section 75 claim or at the 
beginning of this complaint, and so he would not deal with it. He advised raising it in a new 
section 75 claim so that Shawbrook could look into it properly.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It argued that the systems 
underperformance should be considered as part of this complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr C paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr C could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr C and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr Cs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr C, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr C has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr Cs version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr C was told that the overall cost of the system was more 
than its cash price. The credit agreement makes it clear that £9,669 is only the cash price. It 
sets out a clear breakdown of the deposit, the amount of credit provided, the total charge for 
credit, the monthly payments, and the total amount repayable, £18,807.40.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Cs recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as set 
out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mr C more than the cash price as he had decided 
to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan.
FIT payments and savings
Mr C has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Cs recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr C could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr C could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £196.09. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr C 
could expect from the system. The expected year one electricity savings are £341.51 and, 
when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr C,1 the combined income and 
savings in year one are shown as £1,051.20. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
1 The quote does not include any savings from the OWL heating control, and so these figures are not 
affected by the absence of that optional extra.
This results in an average monthly income of about £87.50. Im satisfied that the same 
document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due of £102.24. As a result, 
Im not able to conclude that Mr C was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres another section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 
60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is 
the length of the loan that Mr C entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £102.24. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £103.93, but the difference  £1.69  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first three years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin to make enough 
money to cover the loan payments right away, but only from year four.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr C could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about 
Mr Cs version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the 
sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and savings.
I am reinforced in my view by this graph, on page 6 of the quote, which plainly showed that 
the system would not be enough to cover the loan payments.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr C that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.69 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr C, 
so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr C was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take eight years for the 
overall benefits that Mr C could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the eight-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
30 years. This too shows that during year eight the overall benefits that Mr C could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,669.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £18,807, 
would be reached by the end of year 13.
Underperformance: energy generation (and the missing OWL heating control)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr C that the system would pay for its cash 
price in eight years, and for the loan in about 13 years, as supported by the table above, 
which was included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied 
that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a 
loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the 
performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr C.
It is not in dispute that the system is underperforming. The MCS certificate and quote set out 
that the system was expected to produce 2,924 kWh a year. I have looked at Mr Cs FIT 
statements and can see that his system, on average, has generated 2,135 kWh a year. This 
is much less than estimated by P at the point of sale (73%), so I agree that the system is not 
performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale or was not installed 
properly (either of which would be a breach of contract, which has a different remedy to 
misrepresentation), or if it is just because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility). In relation to this last possibility, I note 
that during the period between the installation date and 15 September 2017 the system was 
generating an average of 2,895 kWh a year, which is 99% of the estimate, so I cant be 
satisfied that it was faulty all along.
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in Mr Cs original section 75 claim in 2020, and so 
I do not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this basis. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr C was told that the system was 
supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks answer was 
that the quote had made it clear all along that this would not be the case. Shawbrook didnt 
have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was generating as much 
energy as P had estimated. That is a separate and distinct point which has arisen since. 
I think the same thing about the OWL heating control. Nobody mentioned that until after the 
inspection.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it. Then, if Mr C is still not satisfied, he may bring a new 
complaint to our service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to deal with that 
issue now, except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr Cs claim under sections 75 
or 56.
Even if I took a different view about that, I am not satisfied on the evidence before me that 
the system was always underperforming. As I have already said, it appeared to be working 
perfectly properly up to September 2017, according to the relevant FIT statement.
Underperformance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr Cs original section 75 claim did include a complaint to the effect 
that the system was misrepresented to him. So I have considered whether the estimated 
financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to generate as 
much energy as it should.
To that end, I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption 
rate, expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation 
increase. I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2015 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr C hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr C could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr C entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Imsatisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr C to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman