DRN-4423217
The complaint
Mr F considers Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) decision to withdraw cover
under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy to be unfair.
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agent.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised
events.
Mr F has a LEI policy which is underwritten by RSA. He sought to make a claim
under it to pursue two separate legal claims about the installation of his bathroom
and the quality of his new kitchen in 2019 and 2020 respectively.
RSA accepted the claims, but on receipt of legal advice  which said neither claim
had reasonable prospects of success and that there were concerns about
recoverability with one  declined cover.
Mr F brought a complaint to this Service about RSAs decision. In June 2022, an
Ombudsman upheld it saying she was satisfied Mr F had shown there was a valid
claim and so, RSA needed to fund the instruction of suitable experts to consider the
merit of the two claims, and the prospects of recovery for one where concerns had
been raised. She also directed RSA to pay Mr F £2,000 compensation.
RSA reconsidered both claims following the appointment of experts. But it withdrew
funding on the basis that neither claim would be proportionate to pursue because the
legal costs involved exceeded the value of the remedies sought.
But Mr F said RSAs decision was unfair as it was based on outdated and inaccurate
information  and so, it couldnt reasonably assess the value of the claims. He said
the expert had also omitted relevant costings from their reports and so, RSA didnt
have an accurate value of the claim.
Unhappy with RSAs decision, Mr F brought another complaint to this Service. An
Investigator considered matters and partially upheld it. She was satisfied RSAs
panel solicitor had demonstrated the bathroom claim wasnt proportionate to pursue
because even with a current claim value to measure against, litigation costs were still
expected to exceed this amount.
But she wasnt satisfied the same had been demonstrated in respect of the kitchen
claim. And so, she said RSA needed to ask the expert to consider all the points Mr F
had made after the expert finalised their report.
The Investigator also said RSA should pay Mr F £300 compensation because she
didnt consider it to have carried out necessary investigations at the earliest
opportunity and so, had caused the claim to be delayed.
Both parties disagreed with the Investigators outcome. RSA asked for an
Ombudsman to consider whether it was reasonable for it to withdraw cover in respect
of the kitchen claim based on it not being proportionate to pursue.
In summary, Mr F responded saying:
oRSA hadnt handled his claims well from the outset and had caused avoidable
delays which in turn meant - owing to inflation - his claims are now subject to
both higher legal fees and material costs, which has impacted the
proportionality of pursuing his claim.
oHis claims werent fully evaluated because the bathroom claim value didnt
include both fitting and material costs, and the expert reviewing the kitchen
claim acknowledged there were aspects of it they couldnt comment on.
oHe considers the solicitors opinion - namely, that legal costs in respect of the
bathroom claim would be approximately £15,000 - to be excessive. Mr F
argues that if the claim had been dealt with in a timely manner, his claim
wouldnt now have to be pursued through the Sheriff Courts Ordinary
Procedure Rules which attracts higher litigation costs.
oLegal fees have been incurred which he considers to be a result of him
having to correct RSA and its panel solicitors mistakes  and so, he doesnt
think RSA should be able to use the policy indemnity to cover these costs.
oIts unreasonable for RSA to cover legal costs in respect of the panel
solicitors reviewing expert reports when he doesnt consider the reports to
have been given due attention.
oThe issue regarding his kitchen warranty and the value it would add to his
claim has never been addressed by RSA, despite him raising it when he first
presented his claim.
oHe wants to be put back in the position he would have been in had his claim
been dealt with in an acceptable manner  which is to have a new bathroom
and kitchen installed to a suitable standard.
Because the parties disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for an
Ombudsmans decision. Having considered things, I issued a provisional decision  
Ive included an extract below. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has provided a wealth of information for this Service to consider. As an Ombudsman
my role is to determine what is key to deciding the outcome of this complaint. And so, whilst I
may not address every point Mr F has made, I want to assure him Ive reviewed the
information he and RSA has provided.
This complaint is about two claims  one regarding Mr Fs bathroom, the other about his
kitchen. Relevant to both claims is the overriding policy requirement that the claim hasreasonable prospects of success and is proportionate to pursue.
With regards to the latter, the policy makes it clear it doesnt cover legal proceedings where
a reasonable estimate of the policyholders total legal expenses is greater than the amount
in dispute. Its on this basis RSA has withdrawn cover, and so I need to determine in respect
of each claim whether its decision to do so is fair.
Bathroom claim
As things stand, RSA has said - based on its solicitors legal advice  the bathroom claim
isnt proportionate pursue. As I understand it, this is its position whether the claim is valued
between £2,250 - £3,330 (the original value) or between £7,000 - £8,000 (the claim value
based on current material and labour costs).
Initially, RSAs solicitor said the original claim value meant it wasnt proportionate to pursue
because if the claim went to Court, a Court was unlikely to award a sum greater than the
lowest amount the remedial works could be completed for  which was £2,250. It added that
this was a relatively modest sum when compared to the legal costs incurred to that point.
Mr F raised concerns about the original claim value  saying it was inaccurate as it didnt
include fitting costs. He said with this cost included the claim value was instead £4,846 - but
as the quote was four years old, this would now be higher owing to inflation.
RSA asked Mr F to provide updated estimates for both the materials and labour costs 
which he did. And the claim value was estimated to be between £7,000 - £8,000. Because
the claim value was more than £5,000, RSAs solicitor said it would need to be pursued
through the Sheriff Courts Ordinary Procedure  and as this would attract litigation costs of
around £15,000, the claim wasnt therefore, proportionate to pursue.
But Mr F thinks this has led to an unfair result. His argument is that had RSA handled his
claim fairly from the outset, it wouldnt have been delayed and so, there wouldnt have been
an increase in material and labour costs  meaning his claim value wouldnt have exceeded
£5,000 and be subject to the Ordinary Procedure Rules and the associated higher legal
costs.
It's not in dispute that RSAs solicitor has provided a legal opinion on proportionality in
respect of the original and current claim values. And Im satisfied it was reasonable for RSA
to rely on the solicitors advice as to why the claim isnt now proportionate to pursue, but I do
consider there to be some merit to the argument Mr F is making. Ill explain why.
To clarify, Mr F has said the correct claim value was £4,846  and I havent seen RSA
dispute this because it acknowledges that the original claim value doesnt include both fitting
and material costs. So, to me, a legal opinion on whether it was proportionate to pursue a 
claim of this value - £4,846 - should have been carried out but that hasnt happened and now
cant.
Whilst I cant say with certainty what would have happened had RSA sought a legal opinion
as to whether it was proportionate for it to pursue this claim value, whether the claim had
prospects, nor the outcome of such a pursuit, I am satisfied that because of its handling of
Mr Fs claim and the avoidable delays, hes missed out on the opportunity to find out whether
his claim would have been proportionate to pursue  and I think this needs to be recognised
by RSA paying compensation.
Kitchen claimThe issue here is that Mr F says the expert report RSAs solicitor relied on to determine
whether this claim is proportionate to pursue omits relevant costs and is therefore, not
accurate.
Our Investigator agreed and recommended RSA revert to the expert to gain clarification on
the outstanding issues. But RSA doesnt consider that to be reasonable - it says these costs
are minimal and ultimately, wouldnt make a material difference to the issue of
proportionality.
Im currently minded to agree with our Investigator on this point. Whilst RSA might consider
the outstanding issues to be of nominal value, its not an expert and so, Id expect it to obtain
clarification from the expert on these matters to see if the experts opinion on the damage
and value of the claim changes. On receipt of this information, it should then reconsider
whether the claim is proportionate to pursue.
Excessive legal costs
Mr F is unhappy that the cost of obtaining the expert reports has been covered using his
policys indemnity. But this is standard practice  and whilst he may consider it unfair, if it
wasnt covered under his policy, this would be an expense that he would have had to incur.
And so, I dont consider the inclusion of these reports as part of the overall legal costs to be
excessive or an unreasonable use of the indemnity.
Compensation
Our Investigator said RSA should pay Mr F £300 to recognise that RSA hadnt carried out
necessary investigations and had therefore, caused avoidable delays.
I agree compensation is warranted here for the same reason, but Im also currently minded
to increase this amount because of what appears to have been a lost opportunity on Mr Fs
part in respect of his bathroom claim and a fair assessment of proportionality being
undertaken by RSA at the appropriate time. Keeping in mind Mr Fs personal circumstances
 particularly his state of health which RSA were aware of  Im minded to direct RSA to pay
him £1,000 compensation.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance
Limited to:
- Pay Mr F £1,000 compensation.
- Obtain an expert opinion on the outstanding issues in respect of the kitchen claim to 
determine the claim value. It should then consider whether the claim is proportionate to 
pursue based on this new information.
RSA responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mr F replied  he reiterated his 
complaint points about RSAs handling of the claim and how this had prevented 
proportionality from being properly determined. He also didnt consider it fair for his 
policy indemnity to be used to fund obtaining the experts opinion and a legal 
assessment on proportionality. Persuaded by Mr Fs argument that using the indemnity limit to absorb these costs 
would impact any assessment of proportionality, I wrote to RSA explaining that I 
intended to say in my final decision that RSA should bear these costs, so that Mr Fs 
indemnity limit isnt affected, and a fair assessment of proportionality can be 
achieved. This was also shared with Mr F. 
RSA replied to say it accepted this. Mr F responded  in summary he said:
oHe wanted confirmation that RSA were to bear the legal costs associated with 
the new assessment of proportionality as well as the expert report. 
oHe thought another expert opinion was largely academic  as the claim was 
going to be greater than the Simple Procedure £5,000 limit. 
oHe had concerns about how RSA would handle the claim going forwards  
particularly how long it would take to action my direction to it. 
oHe wanted to be able to clarify with RSA / its solicitor what had been missed 
previously when instructing the experts report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F provided a lengthy response to my provisional decision  I wont be addressing every 
aspect of it here  my intention isnt to be curt but is to reflect the informal nature of our 
service. And so, Ive responded to what I consider to be relevant to deciding the complaint. 
RSA were informed that I intended to direct it to cover the costs of obtaining an 
expert opinion and the legal costs involved in obtaining a proportionality assessment. 
So, neither would be absorbed by his indemnity limit.  
Whilst Mr F might consider another expert opinion to be academic, ultimately, for 
RSA to fairly assess proportionality, its needs to know the actual value of the kitchen 
claim - including issues which Mr F considers were previously omitted. And Im 
satisfied obtaining another expert opinion  and taking account of Mr Fs concerns 
about what was previously omitted - remains a fair course of action. 
RSA will be aware of its responsibility as an insurer to handle claims promptly, and 
so, I expect it to act in accordance with this when obtaining an expert opinion and 
carrying out a proportionality assessment. Though hopefully unnecessarily, if Mr F 
has concerns about RSAs handling of his claim going forwards, he can raise a 
complaint with it and subsequently bring it to this service for consideration.  
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr F £1,000 compensation. RSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr F accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Obtain an expert opinion on the outstanding issues in respect of the kitchen claim to 
determine the claim value. It should then consider whether the claim is proportionate 
to pursue based on this new information. The costs incurred in obtaining an expert 
opinion and legal assessment on proportionality should be paid by RSA and not be 
deducted from Mr Fs policys indemnity limit.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman