DRN-3182876
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mismanaged his buy to let property after starting the 
process of taking it into possession. He asks for compensation of about £30,000. 
 
What happened
Mr J had a buy to let mortgage with Lloyds. The mortgage fell into arrears and in early 2017 
Lloyds appointed a Law of Property Act receiver. In mid-2017 the tenants moved out. The 
receiver recommended that Lloyds take possession and sell the property, and retired from 
their role in September 2017.
Lloyds didnt progress the process of taking possession. Lloyds says there were delays due 
to a legal dispute related to the lease which wasnt resolved until October 2019. There were 
legal costs related to this. There were then delays due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
During this time Mr J received demands for payment and threats of legal action for unpaid 
council tax and utilities. Mr J says he tried to contact Lloyds without response. He says hes 
suffered financial loss, distress and ill health as a result.
Lloyds accepts it made errors and offered compensation. I sent a provisional decision to the 
parties setting out what I thought Lloyds should do to put matters right. Lloyds agreed.
Mr J didnt agree. He asked for more compensation for the impact on his health and his time. 
He also wants Lloyds to deal directly with the council and energy provider that have been 
contacting him about unpaid bills, and bear the costs of the legal dispute related to the 
property title.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August 2017 the tenants left Mr Js property and the receiver recommended that the 
property should be taken into possession and sold. The receiver expected there to be a loss 
if the property was rented out. Lloyds notes say the property was at that time in negative 
equity.
When the receiver retired in 2017, Lloyds should have taken the property into possession 
and marketed it for sale. It says there were delays due to an ongoing legal dispute related to 
the lease which wasnt resolved until October 2019. And there were further delays due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic when Lloyds suspended taking action for possession. During this time, 
the property remained in Mr Js name, and he was liable for costs related to the property. 
However, because the property wasnt relinquished to Mr J when the receiver resigned, he 
wasnt able to sell the property himself or let it.
Lloyds accepts it didnt follow its process properly, and this left Mr J in a difficult position. Its 
notes say that had it followed the correct process the property would likely have been sold in 
December 2017. It offered compensation on this basis, including (once the property was 
sold) backdating the redemption and reviewing the interest applied and any changes in the 
property value.
When the complaint came to me, I had to decide what Lloyds needed to do to put matters 
right. I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought, and my findings 
and outcome were substantially as set out below. Mr J sent his comments in response to my 
provisional decision, and Ive referred to these where appropriate.
Ive tried to put Mr J into the position he would have been in had the property been sold in 
December 2017. While Lloyds notes say it would have expected to sell the property in 
December 2017 it didnt give an exact date. For clarity, we need an exact date and I think for 
this purpose its fair to choose a date in the middle of December  15 December 2017.
On this basis, I think Lloyds should take the following steps:
1. Refund/waive interest: Lloyds should refund or waive interest from 15 December 2017, 
as if the mortgage had been repaid on that date, and adjust the account accordingly.
2.Council tax: If Mr J has paid council tax for the property for the period from 1 September 
2017 and provides evidence of this (such as receipts or bank account statements) Lloyds 
should refund this amount to Mr J. I should be clear that its not enough for Mr J to 
provide an invoice  if he wants payments refunded to him he needs to provide evidence 
of the payment. Lloyds should pay any outstanding unpaid council tax for the period from 
1 September 2017 to the date the property is sold. It can pay this direct to the council, or 
to Mr J.
3.Ground rent and service/management charges: Lloyds should pay any outstanding 
unpaid ground rent or service/management charges for the period from 1 September 
2017 to the date the property is sold. If Lloyds has paid these sums and applied them to 
the mortgage account it should remove them from the mortgage account and adjust the 
account accordingly. If Mr J has paid ground rent or service/management charges for 
this period and provides evidence of this (such as receipts or bank account statements) 
Lloyds should refund this amount to Mr J.
I want to be clear that this does not include ground rent or service/management charges 
incurred for periods prior to 1 September 2017 (even if the payments were made after 
this), or costs related to the negotiation and creation of a new leasehold title.
4.Utility costs: Mr J says hes being chased by an energy provider to pay a bill of about 
£600. He provided a copy of a letter before action about this. Lloyds says no energy was 
used from August 2017, while the property was empty. It said it would provide a letter to 
Mr J for him to provide to the energy provider.
5.Sale of the property and changes in value: I think Lloyds should now proceed to market 
the property for sale without further delay. Its likely theres been some change  positive 
or negative  in the property value since December 2017. Lloyds said it would review this 
after the property is sold. While I think this is fair, for this decision to be final I need to set 
out how Lloyds should fairly calculate any change in the property value. Ive assumed 
there wasnt a valuation carried out in late 2017.
a. I think it would be fair for Lloyds to calculate the increase/decrease in the value of the 
property using average house price indexes and comparison charts (such as those 
published by the Moneyfacts Group) to the sales price. I asked the parties to respond to my provisional decision if they thought this might not fair (such as due to the 
nature of the property or the area its in). Neither party did so.
b. If the property value has fallen since December 2017, Lloyds should compensate 
Mr J for this after the sale. It should first use the difference to reduce any shortfall, 
and pay any balance to Mr J. If theres a balance to pay to Mr J after the sale Lloyds 
should add interest at 8% simple to this amount from 15 December 2017 to the date 
of payment.
c. If the property value has increased since December 2017, Lloyds should add interest 
at 8% simple only to the amount (if any) Mr J would have received if the property had 
been sold in December 2017. It should apply interest to this amount from 15 
December 2017 to the date of payment.
6. If theres a shortfall after the sale and the adjustments in step 5, Lloyds should contact 
Mr J with the aim of agreeing a suitable repayment arrangement.
7. Once the property is sold, Lloyds should amend its reports to the credit reference 
agencies as if the property had been sold on 15 December 2017. It should only record a 
shortfall if there is both an actual shortfall after the sale and (based on the calculations in 
step 5) this would have been the case if the property had been sold in December 2017.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr J said he had no comments on steps 1, 3, 5, 6 
and 7. He said Lloyds should deal directly with the council and utility company (steps 2 and 
4). Ive considered what Mr J has said, that he finds dealing with the council and energy 
company difficult. I think what Ive suggested in step 2 is fair. Ive said more about dealing 
with the energy company below. 
Mr J also asked for more compensation for other matters. Ive considered what hes said and 
set out below why Im not requiring Lloyds to pay all the compensation hes requested.
1.Loss of rent: As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Lloyds to compensate Mr J for lost rent/profit. The compensation here is intended 
to put Mr J into the position he would have been in if Lloyds had taken possession and 
sold the property without undue delay. It would have needed vacant possession to sell 
the property, and of course once the property was sold Mr J wouldnt receive rent. Mr J 
accepted this.
2. Compensation for time spent: Mr J asked for compensation for the time hes spent 
dealing with the council and utility company, including attending court. As I said in my 
provisional decision, we dont usually require businesses to pay for the time customers 
spend dealing with their complaint issues on an hourly basis. This includes dealing with 
these sorts of matters. I have taken the inconvenience caused to Mr J into account when 
considering what compensation Lloyds should pay.
3.Furnishings: Mr J asked that Lloyds pay £6,000 for the furniture and contents of the 
property, which I said wasnt fair. Had the matter proceeded promptly Mr J would have 
had to remove his furnishings or accept that Lloyds would arrange for the property to be 
cleared. If Lloyds has to arrange for the property to be cleared ready for sale it will be 
entitled to add the costs to the mortgage account. If Mr J wants to remove anything from 
the property, hell need to contact Lloyds to arrange this. 
4.Legal costs: Lloyds says it had to resolve a dispute that could have resulted in the lease 
being forfeited. In response to my provisional decision Mr J said as this occurred when 
Lloyds was in control it should pay. I dont think thats fair. The evidence suggests Mr J was behind with ground rent and service charges before Lloyds took control, and I dont 
think its fair to require Lloyds to bear the costs of sorting out any dispute related to the 
property title. Most likely this needed to be resolved before the property could be 
marketed for sale. Lloyds notes suggest this involved court action by the holder of the 
head lease and creation of a new leasehold title. I think its fair for Lloyds to apply costs 
related to this to the mortgage account. And Lloyds is likely to have legal costs related to 
taking possession and selling the property, which it would have incurred even if there 
hadnt been a delay. I think Lloyds is entitled to apply these costs to the mortgage 
account.
5.Utilities bills: Mr J provided evidence of his on-going dispute with the utility company. I 
can appreciate that this is very upsetting. But I havent seen evidence that this dispute 
resulted from an error by Lloyds. As the account holder, Mr J will need to deal with the 
energy provider. Lloyds has said it will provide a letter to help him with this. Without 
evidence that energy was used due to an error by Lloyds (for instance, that its agent left 
equipment running in the property). I dont think its fair to ask Lloyds to do more.
Putting things right
Ive set out above the steps Lloyds should take to put Mr J into the financial position hed 
have been in if the property had been marketed for sale without delay. However, this matter 
didnt just have a financial impact, it caused Mr J worry and stress, and I think its fair that 
Lloyds also pays compensation for this.
Mr J has told us about his poor health, which he says limits the time he can spend working 
each day. Hes found this matter difficult to deal with, especially having to deal with the 
council and utility company. 
Lloyds notes say that in 2016 Mr J told it he was in financial difficulties. As well as mortgage 
arrears, Mr J was behind with ground rent and service charges and there was ongoing action 
to forfeit the property lease. It seems the property was in negative equity and unlikely to 
make a profit if rented out. Clearly, Mr J was in a difficult position. I must also take into 
account that letting property is a business activity. And having his property taken into 
possession and sold  especially with the unpaid bills and probable shortfall after the sale  
would always have been upsetting for Mr J. But Lloyds delays unnecessarily increased this, 
and Mr J was caused worry and inconvenience when he was contacted about council tax 
and utilities bills. Lloyds should fairly pay compensation for this additional upset and 
inconvenience. 
Lloyds has already paid £500. After considering what Mr J has said, I think Lloyds should 
pay an additional £250, making a total of £750 for the upset and inconvenience this has 
caused Mr J.
I dont know if Mr J is still thinking about taking the matter to court to seek higher 
compensation. If Mr J doesnt accept my decision, hell be free to take the matter to court, if 
he wants to do so.
Mr J said he agreed that Lloyds should proceed to take possession without further delay. 
However, if Mr J does take action that delays Lloyds being able to sell the property, I dont 
think it would be fair to require Lloyds to refrain from applying interest during the delay. It 
would be entitled to apply interest during such a delay and I dont think it would be unfair to 
do so. 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank PLC to take the steps and 
pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman