DRN-3811486
The complaint
Mr H complains that Allium Money Limited (Allium), has rejected the claim he made in 
relation to a solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier, which Ill 
call P.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2020, Mr H purchased a solar panel and battery system (the system) to be 
installed at his home. Mr H financed the purchase through a 15-year loan agreement with 
Allium. The system was subsequently installed.
In April 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Hs behalf to Allium. The CMC said that P had 
said:
The system would pay for itself within the period of the loan and cost Mr H nothing.
The monthly loan instalments would be covered by the savings made on electricity 
bills. 
The CMC says this turned out not to be true, that these misrepresentations had induced 
Mr H to enter into the contract with P, and that Allium was liable for this. 
Allium issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr H or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and didnt think Allium had done 
anything wrong.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view and said:
He was sold the solar panels on the proviso that he would save money even with 
paying for the panels, but this not happening.
He initially applied for an interest-free loan with another lender, but the application 
was declined and then he was offered the loan from Allium.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was provided with a quote during the sales meeting. This included the following 
information, setting out the benefits of the system:
I think this clearly shows the total expected benefits of the system each year in the column 
Total income savings. There is a separate document from P, generated during the sales 
meeting,  which included a table showing an illustrative monthly repayment of £150.01. I 
think it is likely that these figures would have been discussed with Mr H before he agreed to 
the purchase. 
So, I think that Mr H wouldve understood the loan repayment was about £150 per month, 
which equates to about £1,800 per year. And that in year one the total benefits of the system 
were projected to be £1,131.69, which is much less than the annual loan repayment. 
From the table above, it would not be until year 10 that the annual benefits of the system 
would exceed the annual repayments. In light of this I dont think its likely that P wouldve 
told Mr H that the savings would exceed the monthly loan repayments prior to year 10. 
The table above also shows the cumulative benefits of the system. By year 15, the benefits 
are shown to be £25,715.17. The loan agreement shows the total amount payable over the 
15-year loan term is £27,069.25. This is more than the stated benefit over 15 years. As such, 
I dont think it is likely that P wouldve told Mr H that the system would pay for itself over the 
term of the loan. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that P misrepresented the system to Mr H in the way that has 
been alleged. 
Ive also considered whether a court is likely to conclude that the relationship between Mr H 
and Allium was unfair. A sufficiently extreme inequality of knowledge and understanding is a 
classic source of unfairness in any relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Allium 
has confirmed that no commission was paid to or by P. Given that Ive also found there has 
been no misrepresentation in this case I think it is unlikely that a court would conclude the 
relationship was unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained,  I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman