DRN-4332316
The complaint
A has complained about the level of commission St Giles received when they arranged
buildings insurance for the block of flats it is responsible for. A is represented by one of the 
directors, who Ill refer to as Ms R.
What happened
A is a residents property management company set up by leaseholders to manage and
maintain the block of flats they live in. A instructed a managing agent (MA) to provide
professional management services, such as sourcing the buildings insurance and ensuring
the building was maintained.
MA asked St Giles to arrange buildings insurance for the block. They did this for a number of
years and for the last time in October 2020. At this time the premium was considerably
higher than the previous year due to issues with the materials used in the construction of the
building. A found out that St Giles received a commission of £28,556.01, compared to 
£6,927.56 the previous year. A said it complained about this in October 2020 and asked if St 
Giles would agree a flat fee. It said it did not receive a response to the complaint.
St Giles said they did not receive a complaint from A. However, they did eventually provide 
their submissions on it for us to consider. In doing so they told us theyd paid £12,732.04 of 
their remuneration to MA as a fee for the extensive work involved in cladding preparation,
handling leasehold queries etc.
One of our investigators considered As complaint and issued his view on it. He said As
complaint should be upheld for the following reasons:
St Giles didnt meet their obligations under the Insurance Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (ICOBS) because they failed to provide A with clear information about
their charging structure. In particular, they didnt make it clear to A that the cost of the
policy would be higher because of the amount they were paying to MA.
St Giles didnt act fairly when they added the amount they were paying to MA to the
premium and didnt act with due regard to As interests or treat it fairly when they
increased the cost of the policy because of this.
St Giles failed to manage the conflict of interest that arose due to the payment they
made to MA.
Bearing in mind A was already paying MA for their services, there wasnt any need 
for A to pay them as well.
The investigator said that to put things right St Giles should pay A the £12,732.04 they paid 
to MA on the basis this compensated them for money they should have had.
A said it agreed with the investigators view.
St Giles did not agree with it and made the following points:
They did not increase the commission to cover the payment made to MA. The risk
was placed with four insurers due to its complex nature and the difficulty in obtaining
cover. And the premium required was purely the risk premium requested by the
insurers. Neither the premium nor the commission rate was increased to cover the
payment to MA.
The commission rate was a materially lower percentage rate than the percentage
they received for arranging the policy for A in 2019.
As they covered the costs of placing the risk into the Lloyds market their effective
commission rate was under 16%.
MAs involvement went beyond mere sourcing of insurance. They carried out extra
work relating to the cladding issue and related leaseholder enquiries, the provision of
risk and underwriting information, invoicing tenants, ensuring the implementation of
risk improvement work; all of which underpinned a payment being made to them in
respect of each policy period.
With reference to our investigators comment that a payment to MA could represent a
conflict of interest, they pointed out that MA is not a customer of theirs, but a part
of the distribution chain necessary to meet the demands of A.
They agreed it would have been unreasonable for MA to have benefited from the
significant increase in premium, which is why the amount paid to them was exactly
the same as it was in 2019.
ICOBS 4.3 requires the nature and source of the remuneration to be declared by a
broker to their customer, but does not require them to list the services within the
distribution/placement chain which might be funded from that amount. And the
renewal documents provided in 2020 said this.
They accepted ICOBS 4.4.1 required them to declare the commission that any
associate firm receives, but this is only where a disclosure request has been made
by the client. They have no record of having received such a request from A.
In summary, they believed they acted fairly and met their regulatory obligations.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 August 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from the evidence St Giles have provided that the payment they made to MA did
not directly increase the premium for the cover they put in place. And I dont think there is
any evidence to suggest it impacted the premium indirectly. I say this because the main
insurer has told us the premium they wanted to cover their part of the risk was the premium
A was charged. And Ive got no reason to think theyd have reduced the premium if St Giles
had agreed to accept a lower amount in commission. And I have no reason to think the other
insurers involved would have been willing to reduce the premium they were charging if St
Giles had agreed to a lower level of commission.
In view of this, I do not think it is right to say St Giles treated A unfairly by increasing the cost
to A to cover what they had to pay to MA, as theres not sufficient evidence for me to say this
is what happened.
I also agree with St Giles point that there was no conflict of interest on their part on the basis
they had agreed to make a payment to MA. I say this because Im satisfied St Giles had to
work harder than normal to obtain the cover A needed due to the nature of the risk. And this
meant that they had limited options. So, if the premium was not going to be impacted by thelevel of commission I cant see how the fact they had to pay MA £12,732.04, whatever the
commission they received was, created any conflict of interest.
Of course, if St Giles had had more options, they could of course have been inclined to
arrange cover at the highest commission rate available to make sure they got as much as
possible and didnt lose out by having to pay MA. But there is no evidence that this was the
case. And I need to be clear that I am not suggesting this is what they would have done.
It seems to me that the insurers decided on the level of commission they were willing to pay
to St Giles for the work they did and St Giles accepted that and felt it was appropriate. After
all  as far as I know  the majority of St Giles revenue as a business comes from
commission. And, at the time they were arranging cover for A, they were entitled to negotiate
with the insurers they were dealing with on the level of commission they would receive. And
provided their decision making on where to place the risk wasnt influenced by this, I dont
think they can be said to have acted inappropriately or treated A unfairly.
I also accept St Giles point about ICOBS not requiring them to provide details of other firms
in the supply chain when detailing the nature and source of their own remuneration.
However, I do need to consider the fact that ICOBS 4.4.1 required them to disclose any
commission they passed on to associate firms if they were asked by A to declare their
commission prior to it paying for the cover St Giles arranged in 2020.
ICOBS 4.4.1 says the following:
An insurance intermediary must, on a commercial customer's request, promptly disclose
the commission that it and any associate receives in connection with a policy.
St Giles have said that if they had received a request from A to disclose their commission
they would have disclosed it and told A they were paying part of it to MA and exactly how
much this was. But, theyve said they did not receive such a request from A and were
not obliged to disclose their commission to them or the part of this they were paying to MA.
In view of what St Giles have said, Ive checked the evidence provided and I agree that this
shows it is more likely than not that A did not make a request to St Giles to disclose their
commission. From the chain of emails provided by A it is clear it was told the commission St
Giles were going to receive prior to the renewal of the policy in October 2020 by MA. But MA
did not tell it that they were going to receive part of this. MA asked St Giles if theyd be
willing to discount the premium by rebating some of their commission to A and it seems St
Giles werent willing to do this. But there is no evidence to show St Giles received a request
from A directly to declare their commission.
And, even if I were to accept that they did make such a request indirectly through MA, I dont
consider St Giles would have needed to let MA know that part of this was going to them, as
MA would have known this and St Giles could reasonably have expected them to share this
with A. MA were not acting as an agent for St Giles, they were acting as an agent for A, so
St Giles are not responsible for any failure on MAs part to provide clear information about
their remuneration to A.
In view of what I have said, I am satisfied that St Giles fulfilled their obligations when
arranging the policy for A in October 2020 and treated them fairly. Therefore, while I
appreciate As concern about the level of commission St Giles received, I do not consider
this in itself was unfair, bearing in mind the increase in premium and the difficulties St Giles
had in arranging cover due to the nature of the risk. And, while a significant part of this was
passed to MA, there was no reason for St Giles to share this with A. Neither do I think that
the fact they passed part of their commission to MA had any impact on the premium the
insurers involved charged.
This all means, that Ive provisionally decided it is not appropriate for me to uphold Ascomplaint.
I gave both parties until 23 August 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. 
Ms R has responded on behalf of A and made the following additional comments:
A request was made to St Giles to disclose their commission in a telephone meeting 
on 16 October 2020 between the directors of A, MA and St Giles. And the email trail 
makes direct reference to the meeting and shows the directors requested a 
breakdown of costs. 
The majority of the extra work mentioned by St Giles as carried out by MA was 
covered by the contract A had with them to act as managing agents. And  in 
addition to that -  MA levied multiple additional construction material related charges 
that year to the leaseholders.
It is curious that St Giles agree it would have been unreasonable for MA to have 
benefited from the significant increase in premium, which is why the amount paid to 
them was exactly the same as it was in 2019. Ms R thinks this is curious because it 
seems in 2019 MA received £8-9,000, whereas in 2020 they received around 
£12,000. 
Ms R would appreciate my thoughts on the fact St Giles only provided a quote 2-3 
days before renewal.  
It appears I have had direct contact with St Giles and the directors would like the 
opportunity to discuss the case with me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked with St Giles and they have said they have no record of the telephone meeting 
on 16 October 2020. This doesnt mean the meeting didnt take place and I can see 
references to a meeting on that day in emails between the directors of A and MA. However, 
even if the directors did ask St Giles to disclose their commission in this meeting, I think 
having let MA know what the commission was and what their share would be, St Giles could 
reasonably have expected MA to pass on all the details to A, including what MAs share of 
the commission was. I appreciate Ms R feels neither St Giles nor MA were transparent about 
their remuneration. But I cant ignore the fact that MA were As agent and were not acting for 
St Giles. So  as I see it - St Giles needed to make sure MA had all the information they 
needed on commission and it was then up to MA to pass this on to A as their client. 
Therefore, even if the directors of A did ask St Giles to disclose their commission in a 
meeting prior to renewal, it doesnt alter my view that As complaint against St Giles 
shouldnt be upheld. 
I appreciate MA were being paid separately for their role as a managing agent. But I think St 
Giles was entitled to take into account the value they added to the renewal process and 
decide what they felt it appropriate to share with them in terms of commission. So, the fact 
they were paid for their services as a managing agent, doesnt alter my view that St Giles 
decision to share part of their commission with them was reasonable. 
St Giles have confirmed that they did share the same amount of commission with MA in 
2019 and 2020. But, even if the amounts were different, it wouldnt alter my view that what St 
Giles did in sharing their commission in 2020 was reasonable. 
I can see that A were trying to obtain renewal terms from St Giles well before renewal and wanted to involve another broker. However, the risk St Giles were trying to place was 
complex in view of issues with the materials used in the construction of the building and so it 
wasnt easy. Therefore, in view of this and the difficulty St Giles had in placing the risk, I 
think providing the renewal quote only two or three days before renewal was reasonable. I 
note the other broker also said it would be very difficult, if not impossible, for them to place 
the risk. So, I doubt very much if St Giles had provided the renewal quote earlier there is 
much more the other broker could have done. 
I have exchanged emails with St Giles on this case, but I have not spoken with anyone 
there. I have also now exchanged emails with Ms R and offered to speak with her. So, I 
consider I have given both parties a reasonable opportunity to make further representations.
It therefore follows that it remains my view that for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision and above, I do not think it is appropriate for me to uphold As complaint about      
St Giles.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold As complaint about St Giles Insurance and Finance 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman