DRN-3394513
The complaint
Mr B complains about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limiteds 
(NFU) decision to decline cover for a buildings insurance claim.  
What happened
Mr B says, following a period of storm conditions, part of a stone wall collapsed and the 
remaining wall suffered damage. Mr B reported this to NFU who instructed a loss adjuster  
who Ill refer to as company C. They carried out a site visit and prepared a report. NFU then 
declined the claim on the basis the wall didnt collapse as a result of a single event but due 
to the penetration of vegetation, in the form of ivy and honeysuckle, into the mortar between 
the bricks which has occurred over a period of time. Mr B then instructed his own Chartered 
Engineer  who Ill refer to as company S. They said the ivy roots werent present at the 
fracture location and the wall fractured at the base. Company S found the cause of the 
damage to be storm conditions. So, Mr B complained to NFU.  
 
NFU responded and explained company Cs report and photos supported their view that the 
vegetation had some influence on the damage. They said the effect of the roots over a 
period of time would weaken the integrity of the wall. NFU also said theyd reviewed the 
weather conditions in the days leading up to the wall collapsing. They noted wind speed of 
32mph and rainfall of 18.2mm a day before the incident. They said if the wind was strong 
enough to knock over a stone wall, then further damage to vegetation and other structures in 
the vicinity would be expected  but there was no such damage. They agreed there was 
heavy rain the day before the incident but rain on its own doesnt usually cause a solid stone 
structure to collapse. They said when the integrity of any structure is compromised by root 
activity, rainfall and moisture over a period of time will be able to enter between the stones 
and further weaken the wall. NFU didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B then appealed NFUs 
decision and provided information showing what he felt were storm conditions. NFU then 
instructed a Chartered Engineer  who Ill refer to as company J  who also felt the wall 
didnt collapse due to storm conditions. NFU maintained their position to decline the claim.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. She thought NFU hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining the claim. Mr B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.     
My starting point is Mr Bs buildings insurance policy. This covers his property for damage 
caused by storm but doesnt cover any damage due to gradually operating causes. The 
policy also says, under the heading Excluded risks, it wont cover damage caused by wear 
and tear and any cause which happens gradually. So, Im satisfied that NFU shouldve 
looked into Mr Bs claim because he reported the damage was caused by a storm. Ive then 
looked at whether NFUs decision to decline the claim, and their reason for doing so, is fair 
and reasonable.      
In order for us to consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three 
questions: 
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, were likely to uphold the complaint. But if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met 
due to storm conditions.
In weighing up the first question, I note Mr Bs policy doesnt define storm. But, NFU have 
provided an extract from the website of the Association of British Insurers (ABI) which 
defines a storm. This says a storm is a period of violent weather defined as wind speeds with 
gusts of at least 55mph or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour. Mr B has 
provided a weather report which shows rainfall two days before the incident was recorded as 
28.59mm. That means the answer to the first question is yes.   
 
I can also answer yes to question two. Heavy rain, sufficient to be classed as storm 
conditions, can have the effect of softening any foundation soils leaving a wall vulnerable to 
collapse or a volume of water can build up behind a wall and exert pressure on it. So Im 
satisfied the damage claimed in this instance is consistent with damage typically caused by 
a storm.
Turning to the final question, I now need to consider whether the storm  in this case the 
heavy rain - was the main cause of the damage in this instance. Insurers often appoint 
experts experienced in this type of work to look at the damage, and thats what NFU did. I 
think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for NFU to rely on the report when deciding 
whether to meet the claim. In this case, NFU instructed company C to inspect the damage 
and prepare a report. Ive seen company Cs report and this concludes the damage wasnt 
as a result of storm conditions. Company C also conclude The wall has suffered from aged 
wear and tear in conjunction with being undermined by plant roots and growth into mortar 
joints weakening its structure.
Mr B then instructs his own expert, company S, to carry out a site inspection and provide 
their thoughts on the cause of the damage. They say:  
Prior to the collapse, there was substantial rainfall and records indicate this being in 
the order of 28.59mmwith wind gusts of 31mph.  This is likely to have resulted in 
softening of the ground beneath the foundations making the wall more vulnerable to 
movement resulting from wind loading. 
The higher winds a few days before the incident could have caused the lean on the 
wall to increase as a result of the softened ground beneath the foundations making 
the wall more vulnerable to collapse and to fracture at low level with external forces.
 
I believe it was agreed by all that there was no intrusion of roots at the fracture plane 
and that the mortar was in good condition. I think it was also agreed that there was 
no way that trees or vegetation could have pushed the wall over.  There was some 
ivy growing on the wall to the garden side and there is no way that this could have 
contributed to the collapse.  The weight of the ivy would only have acted to counterbalance the overturning forces in the wall and to enhance stability, being to 
the opposite site of the collapse.  
 
In conclusion, it is my opinion that the reason for the collapse is that the excessive 
rainfall softening soil beneath the foundations then high winds prior to the incident 
caused the wall to rotate away from the garden making it more vulnerable to 
collapse. On the day of the collapse, the wind gust caused the wall to fracture and 
topple over. 
 
Given there are conflicting reports, NFU instruct an independent structural engineer  
company J  to carry out a site inspection and prepare a report. Company Js report says, 
The movement discernible within the structure has no doubt occurred over a significant 
period. And, We consider that ivy and vegetation growth whilst not the single cause of 
failure have contributed to weakening and voiding of the wall over many years. There are 
clear signs that plants have historically penetrated the body of the wall and been removed 
resulting in voiding of the masonry. Vegetation growth could be considered a further 
contributory factor. 
Company J also say, In summary we conclude that the wall has failed not because of storm 
conditions or root damage but due to historic and probable ongoing settlement and 
deformation of what is a very old structure, contributory factors appear to be the dilapidated 
condition of the walling, its defective slate capping, the extent of historic repairs, re-profiling 
of the adjacent access track, vegetation removal, historic root ingress, voiding of the 
masonry and perhaps even the moderate wind recorded on the date of collapse. However, 
we consider and conclude that the most significant contributory factor resulting in sudden 
failure of the boundary wall was its apparent settlement, movement, and deformation over 
time, the extent of which was such that the masonry was inherently unstable prior to 
collapse.
 
Given the conflicting findings around what factor/s were responsible for the wall collapsing, 
Ive weighed up the reports to conclude which should be given more weight by deciding 
which, on balance, is more persuasive. I am sorry to disappoint Mr B but I find company Js 
report most persuasive  and I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly, I think its important 
to note here their site inspection was carried out in the presence of Mr B and representatives 
from company C and company S. Company Js report references specific comments and 
areas of dispute discussed during the site inspection and raised in the two previous reports. 
This demonstrates company J have taken into account the opposing views in the two 
previous reports and theyve addressed the key points they believe are material to their own 
findings. For example, company S make reference to storm conditions and resulting winds 
being a likely cause of the damage. Company J explain the storm referenced by company S 
occurred at the end of July  a month after the wall collapsed. Company J also address why 
they feel the heavy rain which occurred two days prior to the incident didnt appear to 
suggest a rate relevant to the ABI definition and therefore didnt appear to confirm storm 
conditions. And the wind speed being significantly less than the ABI definition. 
The report also addresses the dispute around vegetation growth and root intrusion being the 
cause of the wall collapse and company J confirm they dont consider this to be the cause. I 
will add, while I have noted company Js comments about the rainfall, Im not persuaded this 
suggests no storm conditions were present. From the independent weather report 
information Ive seen, I believe the rainfall does amount to storm conditions.  
Company J have also provided specific comments in their report to support their findings. 
For example, they found deformation over time to have been a significant contributory factor 
leading to the failure of the wall. To support this finding, they carried out a deformation 
survey and they say this showed the natural stone masonry had deformed historically and the deformation recorded shows the wall having rotated in the direction of the collapse. 
Company J also found the masonry still standing is deformed and therefore potentially 
unstable and at risk of collapse. And, the general condition of the boundary wall structure 
that remains standing is described as dilapidated.         
Taking this all into account, company Js report doesnt conclude storm conditions as being 
the cause of the wall collapse. While it also doesnt conclude any root damage as being the 
probable cause, it refers to factors which have occurred over time as being the most 
significant contributory factor. Given that Mr Bs policy doesnt cover any wear and tear or 
causes which have happened gradually, I cant say NFU have acted unfairly in declining the 
claim. Company Js report doesnt relate the damage to any event which is covered in Mr Bs 
policy but does link it to an event which is excluded. 
I can see Mr B has raised a number of points about company Cs report and what he 
believes are inaccurate findings. I wish to reassure Mr B that, while Ive carefully considered 
his comments, I dont feel it changes what I believe is the right outcome here as Im 
persuaded by company Js report, not company Cs. 
Mr B also says company Js findings are wholly unsubstantiated. He says there has been no 
further collapse of the wall since the incident despite there being seven named storms. Mr B 
says a common feature among these named storms is that they were all wind storms 
whereas the storm which caused damage to his wall involved torrential rain. Mr B refers to 
company Ss report which found that the excessive rainfall had the effect of softening the soil 
beneath the foundations. Mr B also refers to the layout of the wall and how this wouldve led 
to rainwater seeping to the northern part of the wall. I can see company J have considered 
this and say, in their view, its apparent that the track surfacing has been lowered in recent 
times, with soils adjacent to the base of the wall lowered and they believe this action has 
affected the foundation soils and increased the effective height of an already deformed 
and unstable structure, contributing to its failure. Company Js report goes into detail 
describing a range of contributory factors which they believe led to the wall becoming 
unstable  and theyve also set out their reasons for these findings. So, I cant conclude 
company Js findings are unsubstantiated.  
I do understand Mr B firmly believes company Ss findings are accurate and should be 
preferred over the other two reports. I should stress that I am not a structural engineer and 
nor do I have specialist knowledge on the structure and deformation of walls. So when 
considering such complaints, I take into account the opinion of the experts. And, thats what 
Ive done here. Company Js report goes into significant detail when commenting on the pre-
existing condition and instability of the wall  and its this detail that they rely on to support 
their finding that the wall had become unstable over time. While I have considered company 
Ss comments, I cant see theyve provided any persuasive challenge to company Js 
findings on the condition of the wall prior to collapse. 
I note company J do refer to wind being a trigger mechanism for the collapse of the wall and 
company S also say a combination of heavy rain and force of wind would be sufficient to 
cause the collapse. While I agree there appears to be some agreement here, its important 
to note company J say but we do not consider that storm force winds would be required 
to trigger the event given the extent of historic deformation recorded on site. So, while 
company J believe the wind mightve been responsible for triggering the collapse of the wall, 
its the deformation of the wall which they believe was the primary reason for the collapse. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B as I can see he firmly believes the damage to his wall is as a 
direct result of storm conditions. I do want to reassure him that I have carefully considered 
both his and company Ss points and arguments, and I understand why they believe the heavy rainfall and wind was responsible for the damage. But, the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
persuade me that, its more likely than not, any storm conditions were the main cause of the 
damage. My role is to consider whether NFU have acted fairly and reasonably in declining 
the claim. And, for the reasons I have given, I think they have.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman