DRN-1581719
 
The complaint
Mrs K has complained about ERGO Reiseversicherung AG. She isnt happy that it wouldnt 
pay a claim under her travel insurance policy after she cancelled her policy.
What happened
Mrs K took out an annual travel insurance policy with ERGO in July 2019. But the policy 
didnt start until mid-October 2019 which was when her holiday was due to start.
Unfortunately, Mrs K had to cancel the policy as her traveling companions partner was 
diagnosed with a terminal illness. This was at the start of October, but the policy hadnt 
started at that stage so ERGO wouldnt meet the claim. As Mrs K wasnt happy about this 
she complained to ERGO and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs K but didnt uphold her complaint. She 
acknowledged Mrs Ks point that she feels the policy may have been mis-sold. But 
highlighted that this wasnt a matter for ERGO as it didnt sell the policy and I understand a 
separate complaint has been set up about this. However, she was satisfied that ERGO 
hadnt done anything wrong as the policy hadnt started when Mrs K cancelled her holiday. 
As Mrs K didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the position Mrs K finds herself in. She has had to cancel 
her holiday due to the poor health of her travelling companions partner. And the cancellation 
of her holiday was only a week before the policy started. But I have to be fair to both sides 
and as her travel insurance policy hadnt started, I cant say ERGO has done anything 
wrong.
As the investigator outlined ERGO isnt responsible for the sale of the policy and that 
was looked at separately. And Ive listened to a call when Mrs K took the policy out and it is 
clear that she understood the policy didnt start until just before her holiday (mid-October). 
Indeed, she brought the start date forward slightly to cover her initial journey before her 
holiday started and her validation certificate confirmed the start date of the policy. And Mrs K 
told the call taker she had an existing policy in place, so she didnt need it to start any earlier. 
Mrs K also believes that she shouldve been told that the claim wouldnt be met as soon as 
she made contact about her claim and I can understand her point. But she spoke to ERGOs 
agent and it simply started the claims process and took the details from Mrs K in order that 
ERGO could consider the claim. And it was only when ERGO had all the detail that it turned 
down the claim. I know that Mrs K wouldve liked to have been told immediately, and ideally ERGOs agent couldve highlighted the possibility that the claim might not be met, but 
ERGOs agent didnt do anything wrong in collating the information in order that ERGO could 
decide.
As such, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mrs K has found herself, I dont 
think ERGO has done anything wrong here. So I cant ask it to change its position on her 
claim.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman