DRN-3233921
The complaint
Mr J  complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined his claim against a group private 
medical insurance policy and added an exclusion to his cover. Reference to AXA includes its 
agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in June 2020, Mr J joined a group private medical insurance policy. 
The cover is on full medical underwriting terms, which means that AXA asked Mr J questions 
about his health at the point of application and used those answers to decide on what basis 
to offer cover.  
In July 2020, Mr J contacted AXA to make a claim in relation to pain in his knees. AXA 
declined the claim. It said that Mr J hadnt disclosed a pre-existing condition. Subsequently, 
AXA excluded cover for any investigations and treatment relating to knee trouble. 
Mr J says that the problem he previously had were niggles that didnt need medical 
intervention and that were unrelated to the new problem. He wants AXA to deal with his 
claim and remove the exclusion. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Initially, she thought that AXA hadnt 
treated Mr J fairly. AXA didnt agree. The investigator reconsidered the matter and didnt 
recommend that Mr Js complaint be upheld. That was because she thought that Mr J should 
have disclosed to AXA the previous issue hed had with his knees. The investigator didnt 
think that AXA had treated Mr J unfairly in declining his claim or in applying an exclusion to 
his cover. 
Mr J doesnt agree with the investigator. He said that AXA acted unfairly in asking him for 
information from his GP when it wouldnt have changed the outcome. Mr J said that hed 
never had a diagnosis for a knee problem from a medical professional. He asked that an 
ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks that Mr J failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he answered No to the following question on the application form:
Have you or any person to be included on this plan had any medical condition, disability or
health problem, not mentioned above, whether or not a doctor has been consulted, for
example gynaecologist or menstrual problems, complications of pregnancy, signs or
symptoms of varicose veins, back trouble, joint disorders, foot problems, indigestion or
bowel problems, abdominal pains, skin problems, allergies, anxiety, depression or other
psychiatric problems, trouble with heart, limbs, eyes, urination etc 
I think the question AXA asked Mr J is clear. 
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr J and AXA when he first made his claim. He said 
that hed had niggles in his knees before, but theyd always cleared up. AXA asked him 
when he last had the problem and Mr J said that it was about a year ago, but he went to 
physio and that cleared it up. In response to the investigators enquiries, Mr J said that he 
saw a physiotherapist for an unrelated matter and mentioned that when he runs he 
sometimes gets a niggle beside his kneecap. The physiotherapist suggested a different 
running style and he didnt feel the niggle again. 
Based on what Ive seen and heard, I dont think that Mr J took reasonable care when he 
answered the question Ive set out above. He should have told AXA about the previous knee 
problem which hed consulted a physiotherapist about a year before he applied for 
membership of the group policy. 
AXA says  and I accept  that if it had known the true position, it would have excluded 
cover for any investigations and treatment relating to knee trouble. This means that Im 
satisfied that Mr Js misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Ive looked at the actions AXA can take in accordance with CIDRA. When the 
misrepresentation is careless  rather than deliberate or reckless  an insurer may add an 
exclusion to the cover from the point of the misrepresentation and then assess any claim in 
line with that. As explained above, had AXA known about Mr Js previous knee problem, it 
would have excluded cover for knee trouble. This exclusion would have been added to the 
policy from the start cover. So, its fair and reasonable for AXA to assess Mr Js claim taking 
into account the exclusion. This means that Im satisfied that AXA is acting reasonably in 
declining Mr Js claim. 
I appreciate that Mr Js view is that the condition which led to his claim and the niggles he 
had previously are medically unrelated. That doesnt alter the outcome here. Thats 
because AXA is entitled to decide that it wont offer certain cover and here, if Mr J had 
answered correctly, AXA wouldnt have offered cover for any investigations and treatment 
relating to knee trouble. 
Mr J says that AXA acted unfairly in asking him for information from his GP when it 
wouldnt have changed the outcome. When AXA asked for the information from Mr Js GP 
it was seeking to gather information in order to assess the claim more fully. I dont think it 
acted unfairly in doing so although I appreciate Mr Js point that it didnt alter the outcome 
of his claim. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that AXA treated Mr J unfairly in declining his 
claim or in excluding cover for any investigation and treatment relating to knee trouble.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman