DRN-3416546
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about how AXA PPP Healthcare Limited dealt with their request in 
relation to their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs M have an annual travel insurance policy. The 
renewal relevant to this complaint was in April 2020.
In July 2020, Mr M contacted AXA as hed become aware that it was offering a refund on 
cancellation of travel policies and an opportunity to reinstate the policy within three 
months of cancellation. Mr and Mrs M didnt want to take up that offer as they planned to 
travel in September 2020 and AXA didnt guarantee the premium for the new policy. 
They wanted either a refund for the period they couldnt travel due to travel restrictions in 
response to Covid-19 or an extension to their policy for an equivalent period.   
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the relevant rules 
and guidance about cancellation rights and how they applied in this case. The 
investigator also set out the term of the contract of insurance which relates to 
cancellation. She explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the 
insurer starts to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable. The investigator said that neither the relevant rules and guidance nor the 
terms and conditions of the policy obliged AXA to refund the premium in the 
circumstances that arose here.  
The investigator said that what happened here didnt make it impossible for the contract 
of insurance to be performed. She said that AXA has no way of knowing how many trips 
Mr and Mrs M took or intended to take in the policy year. AXA covered the risk of 
cancellation claims for any number of pre-booked trips. The investigator didnt think that 
she could fairly ask AXA to refund the premium or extend cover for the period                
Mr and Mrs M were unable to travel. She thought that AXA had gone beyond the terms 
and conditions of the policy in making the offer and didnt think that it should do more. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. Mr M said that during the period travel 
restrictions were in place, there was no risk to AXA, but they were still charged the full 
premium. He doesnt think that the costs of the travel restrictions should fall on the policy 
holders.  
The investigator considered what was said but didnt change her view. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified and set out the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive looked at the relevant terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says 
as follows:
1.6 Cancelling your travel policy
The lead member may cancel this travel policy within 14 days from the day that your travel 
policy is concluded, or the day that you receive the full policy terms and conditions 
whichever comes later. This is known as the cooling off period. We will return any premium 
paid for the travel policy providing no claims have been made in relation to the period 
before cancellation (being no more than 14 days cover) [] If the lead member does not 
cancel the travel policy during the cooling off period the travel policy will continue on the 
terms described in this handbook for the remainder of the travel policy year. The lead 
member can cancel this annual travel policy at any time after the cooling off period, there 
will be no return of premium in these circumstances.
Im not upholding this complaint because:
Mr and Mrs M didnt cancel the policy within the cooling off period, so theres no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for AXA to offer a 
refund. 
The contract of insurance says that theres no refund for cancellations after the 14 
day cooling-off period. I think that AXA is entitled to rely on that. 
Ive taken into account whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. Whilst Mr and Mrs M couldnt travel when restrictions were in place, that 
doesnt mean that AXA incurred no risk here. An insurer doesnt know how many 
trips a policyholder with an annual multi-trip policy has taken or intends to take. As 
the investigator said, the policy covered cancellation for any trips Mr and Mrs M had 
pre booked  that cover was in place even in the months Mr and Mrs M couldnt 
travel. So, its not accurate to say that AXA bore no risk in the months that travel 
restrictions were in place. 
Im satisfied that AXAs offer was fair and reasonable. It says that the premium for 
this type of policy is split equally across the policy. Its offer was a pro rata refund 
equivalent to the full months remaining on the policy after the request for 
cancellation. I appreciate that it wasnt acceptable to Mr and Mrs M, but it was more 
than AXA was required to offer. 
There on no grounds on which I could fairly direct AXA to provide a refund for the 
period Mr and Mrs M couldnt travel due to travel restrictions in response to Covid-19 
whilst the policy remained in force or to extend their policy for an equivalent period. 
Considering everything, I dont think that AXA needs to do any more than it did. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022. Louise Povey
Ombudsman