DRN-4273416
The complaint
Ms P complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc refused to pay her pet insurance policy claim 
and unfairly added exclusions to the policy. My references to Pinnacle include its agents.
What happened
In September 2022 Ms P took out pet insurance online to cover her dog from 
10 September 2022. Pinnacle is the insurer. In early 2023 Ms Ps dog needed treatment for 
a bacterial infection on her skin and Ms P claimed on the policy for the costs.
Pinnacle wouldnt pay the claim. It said when Ms P took out the policy shed answered the 
question it asked about her dogs previous health incorrectly. When Pinnacle reviewed the 
dogs vet notes it considered Ms P had made a careless  as opposed to a reckless or 
deliberate  qualifying misrepresentation, which enabled it to retrospectively add various 
exclusions to the policy. 
Pinnacle added three separate exclusions to Ms Ps policy: bursitis; skin problems; urinary 
incontinence. Pinnacle said the skin problems exclusion applied to Ms Ps claim which 
meant it could decline the claim.
Ms P complained to us. She thinks Pinnacles decision is unfair and it should pay the claim. 
She said the medical condition she claimed for wasnt a pre-existing condition and her vet 
had written to Pinnacle to confirm. Her vet had also told Pinnacle it should remove the 
exclusions for skin problems and urinary incontinence.
Our investigator said Pinnacle had acted reasonably in finding that Ms P had made a 
careless misrepresentation and in adding the exclusion that led to the decline of the claim.
Ms P disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary she added:
The skin problem her dog had in 2021 was not a condition but an incident. The 
allergy was treated very easily and wasnt ongoing so there was no pre-existing 
condition to tell Pinnacle about. 
She recently did a test policy application and she wasnt given the option of 
answering whether shed taken her dog to the vet.  
It was unacceptable for Pinnacle to refuse the claim completely when she paid a high 
premium for the policy and her vet said the two skin problems were completely 
unrelated. She would accept Pinnacle paying half the claim.
The wording on the on-line platform that gave her insurance quotes for Pinnacle and 
other insurers said pet insurance won't cover (dogs name) for any known medical 
conditions, illness or injuries that (dogs name) already has (pre-existing conditions). 
Her dog had no current medical conditions when she took out the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms P but I dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)  
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a  
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard  
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take  
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether  
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Pinnacle thinks Ms P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when  
she answered no to the following question when she bought the policy:
Has (dogs name) ever shown any signs of Illness or Injury?
Further information available to Ms P when asked the question explained:
(Dogs name) pre-existing conditions: Its important we know of any conditions  
and/or symptoms [dogs name] is suffering from or has suffered from in the past  
before you take out this policy. At the point of claim, our team will review your pets  
medical records. Failure to tell us about any pre-existing conditions may affect future  
claims and your policy. 
Im satisfied the question about Ms Ps dogs health was clear and specific. Im also satisfied 
that the potential implications of answering incorrectly were made clear to Ms P at the time 
of the sale. Based on what Ive seen I dont think Ms P took reasonable care in answering 
the question as she did, so I think she did make a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider whether Ms Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying  
misrepresentation. In other words, whether the incorrect information Ms P provided would  
have made any difference to the insurance terms Pinnacle would have offered her.
Pinnacles provided a copy of its underwriting criteria which shows that if Pinnacle had been 
provided with the correct information it would have added several exclusions to the policy it 
offered Ms P including, most relevantly to the claim complaint, one for skin problems. 
So Im satisfied Ms Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Ive also thought about how Pinnacles classified the misrepresentation. Pinnacles said  
Ms Ps misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate or reckless. That means it 
doesnt think there was evidence to suggest Ms P deliberately provided answers that were 
untrue or misleading. But as Pinnacle considered she hadnt taken reasonable care, it 
classed the misrepresentation as careless.In all the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Pinnacle to have classed the  
misrepresentation as careless. I say that having reviewed Ms Ps dogs vet notes, the vets 
letter to Pinnacle and Ms Ps comments.
The vet records show:
30 Sep 2020 - Check Lump
Clinical Info: Owner came in as noticed lump yesterday, left side just on point of in sc 
- bursitis? Most likely from trauma, leave and should resolve may be left with a small 
hard nodule.
31 Jul 2021
Clinical Info: Skye has a fine rash over the bridge of her nose. she has lost some 
pinheads of coat and can feel small scabs under the coat. Looks likely to be caused 
by allergy and probably due to her sticking her head into bushes or suchlike. 
The vet prescribed medication for the skin problem.
4 Aug 2021
Clinical Info: OR onset of increased urination - will get up multiple times in night, but 
also do it in bed whilst asleep. Does not seem to have good bladder control and can't 
quite seem to hold in to get outside. Not drinking excessively but owners have been 
taking water up to reduce urine production.
Differential diagnosis was given as hormonal incontinence, UTI, other endocrine dz.
Start with urinalysis to check for presence of UTI and USG
The vet prescribed medication to support the dogs healthy urinary tract function.
10 Aug 2021 - Lab Fee DWR

Clinical Info: UA shows no evidence of infection in urine
The vet prescribed medication for treatment for urinary incontinence.
From Ms Ps dogs treating vet notes made at the time of the consultations I think Pinnacle 
can reasonably understand that Ms Ps dog had been seen by the vet due to possible 
bursitis; treated for a rash on her skin which the vet said was likely due to an allergy; had 
urinary symptoms for which the vet prescribed medication for urinary incontinence.
Ive considered Ms Ps explanations as to why she didnt disclose those details. But the  
question and information when she took out the policy was clear that Pinnacle wanted to 
know about any signs of illness or injury, symptoms as well as any diagnosed conditions, 
that her dog had ever had. The question didnt ask what medical conditions her dog had just 
at the time of applying for the policy.
As Im satisfied Pinnacle could treat Ms Ps misrepresentation as careless Ive looked at the 
actions Pinnacle could take in accordance with CIDRA. CIDRAs clear about an insurer 
being entitled to, among other things, treat the policy as though it had been provided on the  
terms it would have offered if the terms offered would have been different. That would mean  
an insurer potentially applying those terms retrospectively and from the start of the policy.  
Pinnacles shown that it would have added the three exclusions Ive detailed above to the 
policy.As Ms Ps claim was for bacterial infection of the skin Pinnacle could fairly rely on the skin 
problems exclusion it had retrospectively placed on the policy to decline the claim.
Ms P and the dogs treating vet say the cause of the claim was unrelated to any symptoms 
her dog showed before the start of the policy. The vets letter to Pinnacle said: 
(dogs name) skin problem back in July 2021 was caused through an allergy to 
pollen and therefore completely unrelated to the bacterial skin condition that has now 
been ongoing for months.
But Pinnacle didnt decline the claim because it thought the bacterial skin condition was 
related to the skin problem in July 2021. Pinnacle declined the claim because the claim 
related to a skin problem which is caught by the skin problems exclusion Pinnacle fairly 
added to the policy.
Ms P and her vet also say the urinary incontinence exclusion should be removed. Ive seen 
the vets comment to Pinnacle about that. But Ive explained above why, on the information 
in the vet notes from August 2021, I think it was fair for Pinnacle to add that exclusion. Ms P 
hasnt mentioned the exclusion for bursitis in her complaint but, for the avoidance of doubt, 
I think Pinnacle could fairly add that exclusion for the reasons Ive explained above.
Overall, I think Pinnacle reasonably declined Ms Ps claim and fairly added the three 
exclusions to her policy. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman