DRN-3278796
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC announced it would start charging him a monthly fee 
for his packaged bank account (PBA). He says he was previously told, on different 
occasions, that the monthly fee would be waived, as long he maintained a certain minimum 
balance. He says bank staff told him this agreement could not be changed.
What happened
Mr S had had a Platinum bank account with Lloyds for many years. The main benefits of 
this PBA were worldwide travel insurance, AA breakdown cover (with roadside assistance, 
Home Start, Relay and accident management), and mobile phone insurance. By 2021, the 
monthly charge was £21. However, for many years the monthly fee was waived if a 
customer kept at least £4,000 in their account. 
In June 2021 Lloyds wrote to tell Mr S it was ending the fee waiver in September 2021, and 
so he would be subject to the £21 per month charge if he continued with the packaged 
account. Mr S complained about this, saying he should be able to continue with the previous 
fee waiver. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the case and said they thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. Mr S didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to packaged bank accounts. Ive kept that 
approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I dont have a copy of the terms and conditions that applied when Mr S first opened his 
account with Lloyds several years ago. But I think it highly likely that Lloyds would, when 
agreeing to open the account, have said that it reserved the right to change the features 
and costs of the account, or to close it down. This has been a standard feature of banking 
terms and conditions for a very long time  and Lloyds has shown us that the current 
terms and conditions also include the right to change the terms of the account.  
I dont think it likely that Lloyds promised to keep this feature of the account available 
forever. And Im satisfied that Lloyds has the contractual right to vary the terms in the way 
it has; I also dont see any regulatory restriction on the way it has done this. 
Mr S says that bank staff have previously reassured him that Lloyds cannot change the 
terms and conditions. However, I dont see that such comments by staff would have 
bound Lloyds into continuing with the waiver now.
Its reasonable for Lloyds, like any commercial organisation, to be able to change the 
price it charges for its services in this way. Up until the stopping of the fee waiver in 
September 2021, Mr S had the choice of taking the package benefits, in return for keeping 
the minimum balance in his account. Each month he had the choice of reducing the 
balance below the minimum and incurring the fee. So, the cost to Mr S was the inability 
to use some of his money each month, in return for the benefits  and similarly Lloyds 
then gained the advantage of having that amount in its accounts. 
From September 2021 the monthly cost to Mr S, and similar customers, changed. Mr S 
then had to decide whether the new way of paying for the package benefits made it 
worthwhile for him. If not, he had the option of changing to a lower-fee account or taking a 
fee-free account. 
I can understand it was disappointing for Mr S, after enjoying these benefits for so long, in 
return for keeping a minimum balance rather than paying an actual fee. But I dont agree 
that Lloyds is bound permanently to continue its previous offer, nor do I think it has been 
unreasonable in changing the way it charges for the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman