DRN-3082941
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2008. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc, trading a Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ms 
health at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and exclusions of 
cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. From what I have, 
Mr M was employed in the care sector, had been with his employer for a year and I think it 
likely he was entitled to statutory sick pay if he couldnt work. Hes told us he cant remember 
if he had anything else, like savings, to help him pay his card if he couldnt work.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Halifaxs offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr M paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ms representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think Halifax made it clear Mr M didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it. I 
say this because he hasnt said anything to suggest this wasnt clear. Also, he ticked and 
signed for the PPI on his card application form, separately from signing for the card. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And 
the evidence about his circumstances shows the PPI wasnt unsuitable for him. For 
example, from what I have it seems the cover couldve been useful for Mr M as its likely 
his existing cover for sickness or unemployment was limited and he cant recall if he had 
anything else, like savings, to help pay his card with if he couldnt work. So he seems to 
have had a need for cover. Also, nothing about his employment or occupation wouldve 
made it difficult for him to claim and he hasnt told us of any existing health issues that 
couldve affected his ability to claim.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take it - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. It 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him, as I concluded above, or too dissimilar 
to what its likely he reasonably thought he was buying, given that I think it unlikely he 
wouldve accepted the recommendation for the policy without having at least a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided. It also looks like it was affordable. With all this in 
mind, it seems like the cover wouldve been useful for Mr M if something went wrong - 
and I dont think he wouldve declined it had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
So I think he wouldve still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mr M wouldve still taken the PPI. I think the policy couldve provided a 
useful benefit at a difficult time if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment, given 
his circumstances at the time of the sale. I also think it was sufficiently close to what its likely 
he thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he wouldve have taken the 
policy in any event.
Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; that these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and that the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ms particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all the cost 
of the PPI to Mr M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.Having done so, Ive decided Halifax should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Halifaxs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Halifax didnt tell Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Halifax and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Halifax didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ms representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr M should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Halifax failed to tell Mr M about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, 
the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mr M wouldnt have taken out 
the policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all 
the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. 
Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipwould not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Halifax not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Halifaxs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Halifax to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr M paid for his PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr M 
with the policy Ive concluded above he wouldve still taken if Halifax had done everything it 
should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider Halifaxs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in line 
with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.
As Halifax has already paid compensation on this basis for Mr M, I dont consider it should 
do anything further. Halifax has told us it made the payment in October 2019.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ms complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). 
As Bank of Scotland Plc has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Bank of Scotland Plc should do anything more.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman