DRN-2710204
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) should have refunded a payment of 
£6,000.
What happened
On 13 April 2020, Mrs M made a payment of £6,000 to the wrong account in error. It was a 
bank holiday. She called Santander but they were closed until Tuesday 14 April 2020. They 
couldnt get the money back.
Mrs M complained that Santander couldve got the money back  she called them within 
minutes - if theyd acted quicker, on 13 April 2020. And  the beneficiarys account was with 
Santander, so they couldve acted quicker. Shed been given the wrong information  that 
the account was with another bank.
Santander said Mrs M had authorised the payment and had used a one-time password to 
confirm it. It was her mistake, and under those circumstances, theyd acted within industry 
standards when trying to recover the money. Because it was a faster payment, any 
repayment could only be sought on a best endeavours basis. This could take 20 working 
days. The money had been removed from the beneficiarys account. The quickest way to get 
the money returned was for Mrs M to contact the beneficiary  as it was a family member. 
Theyd wrongly advised Mrs M in one of her calls that the beneficiary banked with another 
bank, whereas hed switched to Santander  because of that, they paid compensation of 
£150.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator said that Santander had acted 
fairly. Industry guidelines for trying to reclaim funds sent by the faster payments method 
were to start action within two days; and to contact the receiving bank and get a response 
within 20 working days. And, normally, the consent of the beneficiary would be needed to 
debit their account. If the money cant be recovered, then customers should be advised 
within 20 working days. She said that Santander had done what they had to do under the 
guidelines. The beneficiarys account was with another bank  so thats where the payment 
was sent. This was in the process of being transferred to Santander. There had been some 
confusion about this when Mrs M called, and for that, Santander paid compensation of £150. 
But  its important to note that this error of communication wouldnt have changed the 
outcome  they couldnt get the money back.
Mrs M asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M made a payment of £6,000 by mistake to a family member. She cant get the money 
back  and cant contact him - so she is out of pocket. She believes that if Santander had 
acted quicker when she called them within minutes of realising her mistake  they couldve 
got the money back. Shes now suffering hardship as shes lost the money. I understand that 
the matter is now the subject of a police investigation. 
Its not in dispute that Mrs M made a mistake when she sent the money to the wrong 
account. And, it was sent by the faster payments method  which means that it wouldve 
been credited to the beneficiarys account almost instantly. In these circumstances, its our 
role to ensure that Santander did what was required of them to try to get the money back. 
Here, we look to the Payment Services Regulations - which say that a bank should take 
"reasonable steps" to recover funds that have been mistakenly applied to an account. And, 
there are industry standards for recalling faster payments which are:
Bank and building societies in the UK that offer Faster Payments follow procedures known 
as the credit payment recovery process, that set out how the help they must offer customers 
that have accidentally made a mistake when sending a payment. These say:
When you notify your bank or building society that you have made an electronic 
payment to the wrong account, your bank will commence action on your behalf within 
a maximum of two working days.
Where your bank finds clear evidence of a genuine mistake, they will contact the 
receiving bank on your behalf with a request to prevent the money being mistakenly 
spent. As long as the recipient does not dispute your claim, you will subsequently 
receive a refund of the protected funds within 20 working days from when you 
notified your bank.
In cases where the circumstances of the claim are not clear cut, your bank will still 
contact the receiving bank on your behalf. The recipient will be contacted by their 
bank to ask for consent to debit their account. No funds would be removed without 
the consent of the receiving customer.
If it is not possible to reclaim a payment you have sent in error  for instance if the 
recipient disputes its return  you will be notified of the outcome within 20 working 
days from the point of your enquiry and in many cases much sooner.
If funds cannot be recovered through the standard central process your bank will give 
you clear and accurate information on the options you have available  such as court 
action against the recipient.
The industry procedures do not change the legal rights and responsibilities of you, 
your bank or the recipient of the funds. Anyone that intentionally spends money that 
does not belong to them is committing a crime, which can be reported to the police.
The faster payments rules also say, Faster Payments, once sent, cannot be cancelled. So 
 even though Mrs M called Santander straight away when she realised her mistake, they 
couldnt have stopped the payment. They also say, Its vital to check the sort code and 
account number before sending a payment: payments are processed only using these 
numbers and getting them wrong is like sending a letter with the wrong address and post 
code.Ive looked at what Santander did  and they followed these guidelines. They started the 
recall process on 14 April 2020 and gave a decision to Mrs M on 11 May 2020  this was 18 
working days. Unfortunately, they couldnt get the funds back  as theyd been withdrawn.
 
Mrs M has made the point that as the beneficiarys account was with Santander, recovery of 
the money shouldve been straightforward. But - the account was with another bank and in 
the process of being transferred to Santander. So, the payment details entered by Mrs M 
were those for the other bank  not Santander. Santander realised the beneficiary had 
transferred his account to them and contacted him on 14 April 2020 - to ask for the money to 
be returned. Its part of the industry process that in those circumstances, the beneficiary 
must agree for the money to be taken from his account  they cant just freeze the account 
or take money from it.  But they received no response from him. Unfortunately, the process 
for recovering funds from a mistaken payment is the same whether the account is with 
another bank or with Santander  so this made no difference. 
While Mrs M doesnt dispute that she made a mistake, its worth noting that there were 
warnings about making a faster payment on the screen before she sent the money, and she 
had to twice confirm she was happy to proceed with the payment before it was sent. Ive 
seen these and they say Before sending your money, make sureYouve considered using 
a future payment date to give you time to change your mindif youre at all nervous, stop 
this payment and contact us immediately (I confirm, continue  click). Mrs M was then 
taken through a 2-factor authentication process with her online banking log on number and a 
onetime passcode (sent to her mobile number) and was then asked to Authenticate and 
pay.
So  Santander followed the industry processes here and didnt make an error in trying to 
resolve what happened. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs M, but on that basis, in all 
fairness, I cant ask Santander to do anymore here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman