DRN-3328059
The complaint
Mr K complains TSB Bank Plc (TSB) failed to dispense money from an ATM but still 
deducted the money from his account and declined to refund it.
What happened
Mr K says he used a cash machine on 14 December to withdraw £370 and it only dispensed 
£20. Mr K contacted TSB and told them about the problem. TSB temporarily credited Mr Ks 
account with £350 while they investigated the matter. TSB then got back in touch with Mr K 
and said the investigation hadnt shown any problems with the ATM. As itd dispensed the 
money, they would take the temporary credit back from Mr K at the end of December. 
Mr K is particularly unhappy TSB took the temporary credit back which he says meant he 
was without any money in the holiday period. TSB considered the matter but didnt agree itd 
got anything wrong.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. One of our 
investigators considered matters and thought TSB had given sufficient evidence to show the 
ATM properly dispensed the £370 to Mr K. The records from the ATM showed itd been 
successfully used just before and just after Mr K was at the machine and the cash for Mr Ks 
transaction showed as cash taken. Further, the ATM was balanced on 17 December and 
showed no cash difference. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said despite having over £20,000 of benefits being paid into this 
account each year, hes never had an issue like this before. Further, the CCTV shouldve 
been looked at to show he was telling the truth. Our investigated agreed to ask for CCTV but 
TSB explained it didnt have access to any CCTV as it wasnt one of its own ATMs and 
didnt have a process in place to request this. It said Mr K would need to ask the ATM 
provider for this. Mr K said when hed asked for this, he was told itd only be given to a bank 
requesting it and his case relies on the CCTV.
The complaint has now been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K and TSB have different versions of what happened at the cash machine. Where there 
is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I must 
decide what I consider is more likely to have happened in light of the available evidence. 
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive considered all the submissions made before arriving 
at my decision, including information provided by the operator of the ATM.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr K I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. 
So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr Ks testimony is that the machine failed to dispense the full amount of money he 
requested. TSB supplied records for the ATM showing that the £370 requested by Mr K was 
dispensed from the machine. Records also show that the machine dispensed money to 
another customer just prior to Mr Ks withdrawal. They also show the machine was 
successfully used to withdraw money almost straight after Mr Ks transaction at the ATM 
from another account. 
ATMs by their nature have several systems to ensure they work properly and back-up 
systems in case of problems. If the machine had failed to dispense Mr Ks money, I would 
expect the records of the machine to show that. This would also be apparent when the 
machine was balanced because the records and the cash left in the machine wouldnt 
match. There would, in effect, be £350 more in the machine than there should be. But that 
wasnt the case here as the ATM provider confirmed the machine balanced. 
There were also successful withdrawals both shortly before and after Mr K used it. If the 
ATM was malfunctioning that day, Id expect to see different records, either to show money 
had been moved to the purge bin, or that the ATM hadnt balanced. If there were cash 
traps or other unauthorised devices attached, Id expect to see several complaints about the 
ATM, but I havent seen any evidence this happened either. 
I appreciate what Mr K has said and, whilst its possible the transaction wasnt processed 
correctly, I dont think I could say this was more likely to be what happened based on the 
evidence provided by TSB and the operator of the ATM. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more than likely the transaction Mr K made at the 
ATM on 14 December was processed correctly. It follows TSB came to a fair and reason 
decision when declining his claim in this matter.
Mr K has made the point that CCTV wasnt checked. TSB was satisfied the records from the 
machine demonstrated the money was properly dispensed. The CCTV isnt available to me 
and so I cant take it into account in reaching this decision. However, from experience I dont 
consider this is likely to change the outcome in this particular matter. I say this because Mr K 
says some money was dispensed and this is what the CCTV is likely to show but its not 
likely to be sufficiently clear to show the exact amount dispensed which is the issue in this 
matter. Further, I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of the data supplied by TSB and the 
ATM owner. So, this doesnt change my finding TSB has acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching the decision to decline Mr Ks claim.
As I dont uphold Mr Ks main complaint, it follows TSB was entitled to take back the 
temporary credit it gave to him. Im pleased to note, however, it did so after writing to Mr K 
on 24 December to let him know this would happen.
I know Mr K will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to resolve his dispute with TSB  can do for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman