DRN-2628112
The complaint
Mr Ws unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC recorded his address incorrectly after he switched his 
account. Hes also unhappy Lloyds didnt call him back after it said it would.
What happened
Mr W switched his account over to Lloyds. After completing the application Lloyds 
held the wrong address for him, meaning he experienced delays in receiving his card 
and security codes.
Mr W complained to Lloyds. After investigating Lloyds said its systems had picked up 
Mr Ws address incorrectly. It apologised and arranged for £75 to be credited to his 
account to compensate him for the error.
Mr W wasnt happy with Lloyds response, so he referred his complaint to our service. 
As a 70-year-old, he didnt think £75 was enough and expects a substantial amount 
which he could then donate to charity. Mr W also says Lloyds said hed receive a 
phone call to sort the matter out but that didnt happen.
Our investigator looked into things and felt Lloyds offer of compensation was fair, 
saying Lloyds had acknowledged its error and could see it now held the correct 
address for him. She thought £75 fairly reflected the distress Mr W had been caused. 
Our investigator also said she could see Lloyds had tried to contact Mr W by phone 
without success.
Mr W strongly disputes Lloyds tried to call him. He believes its lying to him so asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case. As such the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Its clear Lloyds made a mistake which led to it holding the wrong address for Mr W. 
This isnt in dispute. What remains in dispute is what fairly compensates Mr W for the 
distress and inconvenience Lloyds error caused him and whether it did, or didnt, try 
to call him as it said it would.
I dont doubt Mr W when he says he didnt receive a call from Lloyds, I certainly dont 
think he spoke with it about the matter and I understand his frustration with that. But 
Im satisfied, from what Ive seen, Lloyds did make an attempt to call Mr W. I say this 
because Ive seen Lloyds system notes which show an outbound unsuccessful 
telephone attempt recorded prior to Lloyds sending out its written response to his 
complaint.
Mr W has made it clear he feels Lloyds hasn't compensated him fairly, so Ive 
thought about the circumstances of this complaint very carefully and the impact it had 
on him. 
Mr W has told us the matter caused him stress and hes said whilst his mental health 
isnt the best, had this happened to someone with more serious mental health issues 
the error couldve impacted them more greatly. Mr W has said Lloyds claims to 
commit to supporting mental health charities and thinks it should pay a substantial 
amount which hed donate to those charities. 
I understand the sentiment behind Mr Ws gesture, but it isnt my role to punish a 
business for anything it may have done wrong. Instead, Im required to decide 
whether in the specific circumstances of Mr Ws complaint, Lloyds needs to do 
anything more to put things right for him and fairly compensate him.
Having done so I have to say that overall, whilst I acknowledge this matter may have 
caused Mr W stress, I'm satisfied the £75 Lloyds has already paid him is in line with 
what I'd generally expect taking the circumstances of this complaint into account, so I 
won't be asking it to increase this.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My financial decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman