DRN-2823057
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the amount U K Insurance Limited (UKI) offered to settle her claim 
under her buildings insurance for an escape of water in her bathroom.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Briefly, UKI provided incorrect advice to Mrs C about her trace and access (T&A) cover 
when she reported an escape of water in her bathroom. Because of its mistake, UKI settled 
her claim as if it were covered under the terms of the T&A, even though it wouldnt have 
accepted Mrs Cs claim if it had responded correctly when she first called.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
UKI incorrectly advised Mrs C that she was covered for T&A up to £5,000. The cover 
was only available if she needed to trace a leak after finding water damage. That 
wasnt the case, but Im satisfied UKI made up for its mistake by accepting her claim 
as if it were covered.
The policy wouldnt have covered the bathroom T&A repairs because there was no 
evidence that any of the work done was to find a leak that had already caused water 
damage.
There was no evidence that the bathroom had suffered water damage, such that it 
needed to be removed completely and replaced with a new suite to facilitate T&A. 
The policy only covers unavoidable repairs needed after tracing a leak which had 
caused water damage.
UKI offered to pay just over £1,200 towards the cost of the £5,000 refurbishment. 
Some of the items it offered to pay for, such as the new bathroom suite, wouldnt 
have been an unavoidable cost anyway, so Im satisfied that the overall sum UKI 
offered is reasonable for the T&A claim.
Mrs C asked for an alternative accommodation (AA) allowance for the six weeks she 
stayed with a friend. UKI offered to pay the industry standard allowance of £10 per 
day for ten days. I think thats fair because its how long the bathroom fitter said the 
work would take. 
Mrs C didnt think the offer was enough because a hotel wouldve cost more, but that 
option wasnt available to her because of the ongoing pandemic. The schedule 
states, and Mrs C confirmed to us, she lived alone, so UKIs actual offer of £200 is 20 
days AA. As the policy wouldnt have covered AA in the circumstances, I cant see 
any reason to ask UKI to pay any more.
Mrs C said UKI didnt offer its own contractors to complete the work, so the matter of 
excessive costs couldve been avoided. Had UKI sent someone to assess the 
damage, its likely it wouldve declined the claim. So, I cant fairly ask it to pay any 
more towards Mrs Cs bathroom costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman