DRN-3599941
The complaint
Miss C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) trading as 
Very, irresponsibly gave her a catalogue shopping account she couldnt afford.
What happened
Miss C has complained about unaffordable lending on a catalogue shopping account she 
took out with Shop Direct in December 2019. She was given an initial credit limit of £400. 
The credit limit was increased to £900 in April 2021. 
Miss C complained to Shop Direct to say that the lending was unaffordable for her. She 
said adequate affordability checks hadnt been carried out. She also said that Shop Direct 
ought to have seen that she had a number of other debt commitments at the time. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought that Shop Direct 
had carried out adequate checks when granting Miss C the account. He also thought that, 
given that Miss C hadnt used the account beyond the credit limit she was given, the 
account was affordable for her. 
As Miss C didnt agree her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Based on what Ive seen about this complaint, I dont think Shop Directs actions have 
caused Miss C financial loss. I will explain why. 
Prior to providing Miss C with her opening credit, Shop Direct says it carried out a credit 
check to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Shop Direct also told us it 
assessed Miss Cs account before giving her each credit limit increase. 
From what Ive seen about Miss Cs financial circumstances at the time, I dont think it was 
unreasonable or unfair to grant Miss C an opening credit limit of £400. I say this because 
Shop Direct told us there was no recent adverse information on Miss Cs credit file and 
has provided us with a copy of the data it used. It is, however, certainly possible that 
Shop Directs checks at the time of the account opening werent as thorough or sufficient 
as they might have been. 
Ive seen that Miss C took out a number of short term loans, with the last of these being 
taken out in April 2019. Ive also noted that Miss C had a personal loan that settled in 
April 2019, another one taken out in October 2018 that continued until April 2020 and 
another, larger loan taken out in April 2018, for which regular repayments are still 
continuing. Ive also seen that in October 2020 Miss C requested that her credit limit be 
restored from £200 to £400, at which point Shop Direct checked her income to see if the 
increase was affordable. Miss C made monthly payments that were in the main at 
minimum payment level but on three occasions Ive seen she made larger payments. And 
when her account occasionally fell into arrears Miss C brought it back up to date in a short 
time. 
Having taken this as well as the other borrowing Miss told us about into account, I dont 
think better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial, relatively modest 
credit limit of £400 was unaffordable. 
I think at the time of a credit limit increase it would have been sensible for Shop Direct to 
carry out proportionate checks to make sure that Miss Cs financial situation was such that 
she could afford the increase. However, Ive kept in mind that whether the credit limit was 
reasonable or otherwise is something that is less relevant for this particular complaint. I 
say that because financial redress is designed to put someone back in the position as if 
the failing had not happened. In this case Miss Cs account balance never went over 
around £300. So even were I to think the credit limit increase was unreasonable, there 
would not be any redress to pay. This is because Miss C has suffered no detriment as a 
result of the actions of Shop Direct.   
It follows that I wont be making any award as I dont think Miss C was caused any loss, 
material distress or inconvenience. 
However, I agree with our investigator that in view of the financial difficulty Miss C told us 
about, Shop Direct must continue to treat Miss C fairly. If those difficulties are continuing 
Shop Direct may wish to consider whether reducing Miss Cs credit limit might be helpful to 
her. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman