DRN-3721705
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments made on his debit card for 
concert tickets.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr C used his Santander debit card to pay a total of £1320 for four tickets to 
a concert due to take place in 2020. Due to the pandemic the concert was rescheduled to 
the summer of 2021 and then again to 2022. However later in 2021 Mr C discovered that the 
ticketing company from which hed bought the tickets had collapsed. So he didnt get the 
tickets or go to the concert or get his money back from the ticketing company. So he took his 
dispute to Santander.
Santander looked into the matter and concluded that a chargeback didnt have a reasonable 
prospect of success under the card scheme rules because it was outside of the time limits. 
So it didnt take his chargeback any further and so it didnt refund him.
Mr C didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, she didnt think Santander had acted unfairly by declining Mr 
Cs request for a refund. Mr C didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the ticketing company, which isnt a 
financial services provider and doesnt fall within my remit. Whatever the issues there maybe 
with the ticketing company and just because Mr C has lost money, it doesnt necessarily 
follow that Santander has treated Mr C unfairly or that it should refund him. 
Santanders role in the matter is to be considered only under the Chargeback rules in place 
as this transaction was on Mr Cs debit card. The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary 
scheme and consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is the case 
though that this Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice. Santander can 
only be held responsible if it has failed in some way. And the question of whether or not 
Santander has treated Mr C fairly is the only question I can decide upon in this decision. 
Mr C accepts he made these transactions for the concert tickets with the ticketing company 
in question and doesnt dispute the amounts, dates, or other aspects of the transactions 
themselves. Having looked into the matter Im satisfied the transactions were properly 
authorised by Mr C and correctly applied to his debit card account with Santander. 
could Santander challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr C 
does here, Santander (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process. I 
dont think Santander couldve challenged the payments on the basis Mr C didnt properly 
authorise the transactions, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already set out.
Santander is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it 
is considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And if Santander takes the chargeback as far as it can 
then the scheme provider (not Santander) will then make an independent determination on 
the matter. So Santander isnt solely responsible for the decision whether to refund or not 
when going through the chargeback process. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any 
stage if it doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
I can see Mr C raised the matter with Santander in September 2021 having made the 
transactions in October 2019. Ive considered the timeline of events here, alongside the time 
limits set out within the card scheme. And I can see that when Mr C took the matter to 
Santander this was some time after the 540-day long stop time limit had expired and also 
the 120-day time limits. So clearly Mr Cs dispute was outside of the time limits set by the 
card scheme. And Santander doesnt set these rules, the card scheme does. So I can see 
why Santander thought raising a chargeback would be unsuccessful. So I dont think Mr C 
has lost out because Santander didnt raise a chargeback.
For completeness Mr C argues that the pandemic was an extreme, unexpected, exceptional 
circumstance and that its unfair for him to lose out as a result. As the Investigator has 
explained to Mr C the card scheme has issued guidance regarding the pandemic making 
clear that the pandemic circumstances doesnt mean out of time chargebacks can be 
successful or that any exception should be made. And I should reiterate that it is the card 
scheme that sets these rules, not Santander. I appreciate Mr C feels hes lost out. But this 
isnt because of what Santander did. And I dont think it would be fair for Santander to bear 
this cost when it hasnt treated Mr C unfairly in relation to its stance on chargeback. 
I can see Santander paid Mr C £50 for some customer service issues. I think this is fair in 
the circumstances.
In summary I think that Mr C hasnt lost out here due to what Santander did. I think 
Santander made a fair decision in not pursuing the chargeback any further. So I dont think I 
can fairly require Santander to refund Mr C for the tickets. So this complaint is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Santander UK Plc. It 
has nothing further to do in this dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman