DRN-3223590
The complaint
Ms A complains Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) has treated her unfairly following her request to extend her hire agreement 
during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
In September 2016, Ms A entered into a 24 month hire agreement with VWFS for a new car. 
She paid an initial rental of £2,736 and she was required to pay monthly instalments of £289. 
The agreement was due to end in September 2018.
At the request of Ms A, the agreement was extended for six months in September 2018 and 
again in March 2019 for 12 months. In March 2020, she requested a three month extension 
which was agreed meaning the contract would end in June 2020. However due to the impact 
of the Covid-19 pandemic, she requested a further six month extension.
 
In response to her request, in May 2020 VWFS said the agreement could be informally 
extended for six months as they were offering this to consumers who were negatively 
impacted by the pandemic. However upon further consideration, they said because Ms A 
was already in a three month extension, they could only extend it by another three months 
meaning the agreement would end in September 2020. This is because they were only 
allowing extensions up to six months due to the pandemic. 
Ms A complained because this is not what she was initially told in May 2020. She was of the 
belief with the six month extension, the contract would end in December 2020 (after the 
informal one ended in June 2020). VWFS accepted their offer to extend the agreement for 
six months shouldnt have been offered to Ms A due to the previous extension. They 
apologised and agreed to honour it. They confirmed the agreement would end in December 
2020. 
There was some back and forth with Ms A and VWFS and in November 2020, she made a 
further request for an extension. In January 2021, VWFS issued a second final response. 
They said since the formal 12 month extension ended in March 2020, the agreement had 
been extended by nine months which was an exception. They said they couldnt offer any 
further ones due to their informal extension policy. They accepted she had been sent generic 
correspondence about extensions due to the pandemic which caused confusion given the 
status of her agreement. They offered £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended the case wasnt upheld. They 
said VWFS werent obliged to extend the agreement beyond the contractual terms however 
they agreed to do so on a number of occasions so they felt VWFS had acted fairly. 
Ms A disagreed. She maintained her overall position. She reiterated that she was misled by 
VWFS and this caused distress because she had to return the car without having alternative 
means of transport and she was unable to visit dealerships due to the pandemic. She said 
she had no choice but to enter into a new hire agreement at a higher amount and she wasnt 
able to view or test the car in advance.
The car was eventually returned in October 2021 and the agreement was settled in full in 
December 2021.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, I must decide whether VWFS acted fairly when considering Ms As requests 
for an extension.  Having done so, I believe they have. Ill explain why. 
Ms A entered into a regulated hire agreement with VWFS which means our service can look 
into it. 
As a starting point, Ive considered the terms of the agreement. In regards to what happens 
when the agreement comes to an end, it says when the hiring period ends the car must be 
returned to VWFS. The general nature of hire agreements is to hire a car for a defined 
period of time and when it ends, it must be given back. Such a term is to be expected so I 
dont find anything unusual about it here. 
Having read the agreement, there is no term that provides Ms A the right to an extension. 
That said, VWFS can agree to do so but thats at their discretion and based on their 
commercial decision. In this case, I can see theyve agreed to extensions on a number of 
occasions either or an informal or formal basis so I cant say theyve acted unfairly.
VWFS has explained their policy is hire agreements shouldnt last longer than 48 months 
and I find its their commercial decision to do so. They are only obliged to provide the car for 
the period of the hire agreement. Anything over and above that is at their discretion. In this 
case Ms As agreement wouldve reached the 48 month mark in September 2020, so I can 
understand why VWFS said they wouldnt extend beyond that point.
That said, I cant ignore the fact that in May 2020 VWFS told her they could extend the 
agreement up to six months due to the pandemic, Ive reviewed the communication between 
both parties about this and I can understand why Ms A was unhappy about being told this 
wouldnt be possible when she was previously told it would be. VWFS has accepted this was 
an error and they agreed to honour it and extend the agreement. This is what Ms A wanted, 
a six month extension up to December 2020. At this point, the agreement wouldve been 51 
months. 
Ive carefully considered Ms As comments about when the agreement ended in December 
2020, how she was unable to visit dealerships to look at other cars due to the pandemic and 
she couldnt be left without transport. Given her personal circumstances, I can appreciate 
why being in possession of a car was of great importance to her. However given the 
agreement at that point wouldve exceeded VWFS policy of 48 months maximum for hire 
agreements and she had been given the full six months extension due to the pandemic, I 
cant say they did anything wrong by not agreeing to a further extension. With pandemic 
restrictions easing throughout the six month extension up to December 2020, I believe Ms A 
had sufficient time to source other cars so it wouldnt be fair to hold VWFS responsible for 
this. VWFS told Ms A in August 2020 that the extension would end in December 2020 so I 
find she had sufficient notice. 
Other I note Ms As comments that shes unhappy because she feels she had no choice but to 
enter into a new hire agreement with VWFS at a higher price. However, I dont feel that was 
as a direct result of something VWFS has done wrong under this complaint. However as 
those concerns werent subject to this complaint when it was referred to our service, it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on that. If she hasnt done so already, Ms A may 
wish to raise this directly with VWFS.  
Summary
Overall, I believe VWFS has acted in line with the terms of the agreement and Im satisfied 
they acted fairly when considering Ms As requests for extensions. Theyve offered £100 
compensation by way of an apology in recognition of the incorrect information that was given 
to her in May 2020 and given the circumstances, I believe this is fair. I wont be asking them 
to do anything more than this. As this is yet to be paid, my decision is VWFS should pay this 
amount to her as previously offered.
My final decision
VWFS has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services should pay £100 compensation to Ms A for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman