DRN-3033783
The complaint
Mr P has complained about alternative accommodation he lived in while U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim under his home insurance policy.
All references to UKI include agents acting on its behalf.
  
What happened
Mr Ps home and contents were seriously damaged in a fire. During the claim, Mr P moved 
to alternative accommodation which was paid for by UKI. Mr P complained to UKI because 
he was concerned by the standard of the alternative accommodation. He also complained 
that he had to pay some rent arrears for the property.
When UKI replied it said it wasnt responsible for the condition of rental properties, it was 
only liable for the rental payments. It said any concerns about the condition of the property 
should have been directed to the landlord. UKI said when it became aware of Mr Ps 
concerns, it arranged for an inspection to take place. However, Mr P wouldnt give the 
contractor access. When they contractor was able to visit, it didnt identify any risks to Mr Ps 
family. Despite this, as a gesture of goodwill, it put arrangements in place to move Mr P and 
his family to a different rental property.
UKI also said Mr P needed to pay the final months rent at the first property. Mr P didnt 
move on the agreed date and didnt return the keys promptly after leaving the property. It 
also said Mr P needed to cover costs the landlord had charged for gardening and rubbish 
removal and some redecoration.
When Mr P complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
UKI responded reasonably to Mr Ps request to move to new accommodation. However, he 
said UKI hadnt properly explained to Mr P about serving notice at the property and that 
there was also a time-gap between the rental periods at the two properties. He said UKI 
should pay the rent arrears. He also said it was reasonable for UKI to hold Mr P liable for 
costs related to damage and rubbish removal, but that if Mr P had negotiated lower 
deductions for the damage direct with the landlord that he should show UKI evidence of this. 
As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I will explain why.
Im aware that Mr P has complained to this service about a number of different aspects of his 
claim. Another ombudsman has already issued a decision about several of those issues. I 
wont be revisiting any of those aspects of Mr Ps concerns, including in relation to the 
alternative accommodation. However, I am aware of what happened.
Mr P has complained that UKI didnt take his concerns seriously about health and safety 
issues in the rental property he lived in as alternative accommodation. Ive read an email Mr 
P sent to the letting agent shortly after he moved into the property. Mr P raised concerns 
about the propertys condition, including some issues with the walls, that the bathroom was 
terrible, tiles were broken and paint was damaged. His main concern seemed to be that 
this would affect his deposit being returned at the end of the tenancy. 
It would normally be for a landlord to decide whether to return a deposit. So, I can see why 
Mr P sent the email to the letting agent if he had concerns about this. But, the letting agent 
wasnt acting on behalf of UKI and I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr P raised any 
concerns with UKI about health and safety at this stage, although he did say to UKI that the 
quality of the house was poor. However, this was said in the context of Mr P requesting a 
disturbance allowance. The ombudsmans decision that has already been issued covered 
disturbance allowance and I wont be commenting on this any further.
Ive also read emails between Mr P and UKI and can see that Mr P told UKI that he didnt 
think the property was comparable to his home. But, again, I didnt read anything that raised 
health and safety concerns. After Mr P had been living at the property for several months, 
the letting agent emailed UKI to say they had visited the property as there were concerns 
about cold floors, draughts and mildew. The letting agent suggested Mr P moved to a new 
property. Mr P also told UKI that he had viewed another property that he wanted to move to.
Following this, UKI arranged for a company to visit to assess the condition of the property. 
However, before that inspection took place, UKI suggested some alternative properties that 
Mr P could move to. UKI also said it understood that Mr P had refused to agree directly with 
the company when it could inspect the property and instead said the company needed to 
contact the letting agent. UKI said Mr P would need to allow the company access as he lived 
at the property.
So, I think when UKI became aware of Mr Ps health and safety concerns that it acted 
reasonably by arranging for an inspection to take place and by providing details of 
alternative properties before it was confirmed whether there were issues. Im also aware that 
when the company visited for UKI, it identified some small patches of mould and some 
rodent droppings in the loft but, overall, it found the property to be in an acceptable condition
Mr P also provided UKI with a report from a company he arranged to assess the condition of 
the property. This report raised a number of concerns. However, I note that the report was 
dated shortly before Mr Ps tenancy at the property was due to end. So, I dont think UKI was 
in a position to consider what that company found before then. Im also mindful that UKI 
wasnt responsible for the condition of the property or for fixing any issues, as it was rented 
through a private landlord. UKI had already arranged for Mr P to move elsewhere, which he 
did around the time of the report.
So, overall, I think UKI responded reasonably when Mr P raised concerns about health and 
safety issues in the property and I dont require it to do anything further.
Ive also looked at UKI requiring Mr P to pay rent arrears for the final month of the tenancy 
and for some deductions made by the landlord for damage and rubbish left at the property. 
From what Ive seen UKI expected the tenancy to end on a particular date, but Mr P 
continued to live at the property. UKI said Mr P needed to pay the rent arrears for that final 
month because he hadnt given notice to the landlord and continued to live at the property 
when a new one had already been arranged. However, there seem to be two issues here. The first is that the email I read from UKI to Mr P telling him he needed to give notice was 
sent after the date on which UKI had expected the tenancy to come an end. I havent seen 
anything that suggested to me that UKI told Mr P that he needed to give notice so that it 
would end on the date it originally expected. The second issue is that the tenancy on the 
second property didnt start until a week after UKI had expected Mr P to move out of the first 
property. So, if Mr P had moved out when UKI expected, it appears he might have had 
nowhere to live.
When Mr P was told he had to give notice, he did so. From what Ive seen, he returned the 
keys to the letting agent before the date on which the tenancy then expired. So, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Mr P was responsible for the tenancy ending later than UKI 
originally expected. As a result, I think UKI was responsible for paying the rent arrears of 
£1,239.43.
Ive also looked at the deductions made because of damage to the property and rubbish. 
These costs were passed on to UKI to pay. UKI said Mr P was liable for the costs. If Mr P 
didnt agree these deductions were reasonable, he needed to raise this with the landlord 
rather than UKI. I understand that Mr P did speak to the landlord and has said the costs 
were reduced from £421.57 to £70. I havent seen anything to show that UKI was made 
aware of this and it seems that UKI has still incurred the full cost of £421.57. I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to pass this cost on and if Mr P has managed to reduce the amount 
deducted, he should discuss this with UKI.
  
Putting things right
UKI must ensure Mr P isnt charged for the rent arrears and doesnt have it deducted from 
the claim settlement.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld in part. I 
require U K Insurance Limited to ensure that the rent arrears of £1239.43 isnt charged to Mr 
P or deducted from the claim settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman