DRN-3579250
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited doesnt inform customers 
when their relationship with a merchant has ended.
What happened
Mr C has an American Express card. He says he has been using his card to buy tickets from 
the same third party merchant for the last six years, but the merchant recently refused to 
accept his American Express card for what they said was technical reasons, and they didnt 
provide a timeline when this would be rectified. 
Mr C says he approached American Express about the technical issues, but they told him 
there were no technical issues and they had no idea why the third party merchant refused to 
accept his card. Mr C made a complaint to American Express. He says if any merchant is 
not accepting the card suddenly, then American Express should update their customers 
about this, which would allow customers to plan. Mr C says that as he cant use his card at 
the retailer he wants to, he is losing out on a points scheme that American Express offers, 
which makes it difficult for him to reach the threshold needed.
American Express did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. They said the merchant Mr C wanted to 
use no longer accepts American Express. They said they did not cancel their relationship 
with this merchant as the decision was made by the third party merchant. American Express 
explained a way how Mr C could work around this to still use his American Express card 
details while involving a third party the merchant accepts to allow the transaction. They said 
they dont have the functionality to inform their customers when a particular merchant has 
ended a relationship with them. Mr C brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said American Express told him that the 
relationship between them and the merchant ended due to the merchant no longer wanting 
to continue with American Express. So he didnt think this was a result of American Express 
actions. Our investigator said American Express offered Mr C a way how he could work 
around this to still use his American Express card details while involving a third party the 
merchant accepts to allow the transaction.
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said American Express should 
have told him when he called them up that the merchant no longer accepted the card as 
opposed to them saying they had no idea why the merchant refused to accept the American 
Express card, which left him no option but to wait for what he believed to be technical issues 
to be resolved and he was encouraged to speak to the merchant about this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what their 
policy should be regarding when a merchant decides to stop using them and if they should 
inform their customers each time this happens. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct American Express to make 
changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal 
dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the 
circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account 
relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed their customer.
Ive considered what Mr C has said about American Express should have told him when he 
called them up that the merchant no longer accepted the card as opposed to them saying 
they had no idea why the merchant refused to accept the American Express card, which left 
him no option but to wait for what he believed to be technical issues to be resolved and he 
was encouraged to speak to the merchant about this.
I asked American Express to send me evidence of the phone calls they received from Mr C 
about this. They sent me a screenshot which showed that Mr C had only made one call to 
them in February 2022 (the month Mr C has detailed on his complaint form to our service 
when the events took place). The previous calls show these were made to American 
Express several months earlier (November 2021 was the last call he made to them before 
the February 2022 call). 
So Im satisfied that the call Ive listened to between Mr C and American Express on 9 
February at 15:26pm is the call which Mr C has referred to previously. And there is no 
indication on this call hes previously spoken to them about this issue. The call handler does 
tell Mr C that the merchant has stopped taking American Express cards. Mr C says can I 
know why they have stopped taking it and what Amex are doing. The call handler replies 
we havent stopped them from taking us, theyve decided to stop, erm, taking American 
Express, so youd need to ask them about that, I cant see why theyve stopped taking 
American Express cards unfortunately. Mr C then makes a complaint to the call handler. 
So Im satisfied that the call handler did clearly inform Mr C that the merchant decided to 
stop taking American Express as payment. And she confirmed this on more than one 
occasion. She tells Mr C that they cant force merchants to use them. So while the merchant 
may have told Mr C there was a technical issue, Im not persuaded that the call handler gave 
Mr C the impression that there were any technical issues, as she clearly explained it was the 
merchant who decided to not take their cards.
American Express also informed Mr C in his final response letter of a way he could still use 
his card when he used the merchant, through a third party payment processor. So Mr C 
should be able to still purchase his tickets with his card, using this process if he wants to. But 
it follows I wont be asking American Express to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman