DRN-2705826
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc have incorrectly registered the Lasting Power of
Attorney (LPOA) set up for his parents.
What happened
In 2017, Mr H and a third party were registered as replacement attorneys for a LPOA for Mr
Hs parents. In 2018, the original attorneys were unable to act in this capacity so Mr H and
the third party fully replaced the original attorneys and this was registered on Santanders
systems.
Mr H says his father wanted him to open a Cash Individual Savings Account (ISA) and a
regular savings account also. As Mr H says he could see the accounts online which had
originally been registered as part of the LPOA, Mr H tried to open the ISA first online. Mr H
says he was unable to see how he could open the ISA under LPOA so he opened up the
ISA in his own name. Mr H later did the same with both regular savers.
Mr H says he thought his online banking log-ins were solely for the LPOA as he said he
didnt have any accounts with Santander himself so he thought the actions that he was
taking would be viewed as him acting in his capacity as an attorney. He says that he thought
any new accounts opened with the online banking credentials would automatically fall under
the LPOA agreement.
Over the next two years Mr H moved a total of £35,000 from his parents joint account to the
ISA. He received the statements for these and the statements were in his name only. No
statements were sent for the regular saver accounts.
When Mr Hs parents and the other third party found out that money had left the joint
account to go into accounts in Mr Hs sole name this created a breakdown in Mr Hs
relationship with his parents. He says he transferred the money back into his parents
account but his parents decided to revoke the LPOA and replace him with another attorney
in 2020.
Mr H complained to Santander. He said that the opening of an account for a LPOA was
confusing and he had no help to set this up. He said the LPOA was registered on their
systems incorrectly and that he shouldnt have been able to move money by himself as the
LPOA shouldve been registered as jointly as opposed to joint and severally.
Mr H said he spoke to the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG). The OPG said that the
LPOA paperwork said that him and the third party were granted this agreement on a jointly
basis only, he decided to put a complaint into the bank as he felt Santander hadnt set up
the LPOA access to the account correctly.
Mr H said that section three of the LPOA was blank next to how the donor wants the
attorneys to act  either jointly, jointly and severally or jointly for some decisions, jointly and
severally for other decisions. He also says that section four of the LPOA states in relation to
replacement attorneys (which he was at the time of the registration of the document)  If
they fully replace your original attorney(s) at once, they will usually act jointly. You can
change most aspects of this but most people dont. Underneath this statement there is an
unticked box which says I want to change when or how my attorneys can act (optional).
Santander did not uphold his complaint. They said there was no bank error with how the
LPOA was registered. They said that there wasnt a specific online banking sign in for
attorneys vs sole customers and that no online banking log ins for LPOA were issued to
either Mr H or the third party. Santander said Mr H had various accounts with them from
2005-2013 so he would have used his personal online banking to view all of the accounts
(including accounts where he is an attorney).
Santander said that had Mr H used his fathers name and details, this would have registered
the account LPOA for both Mr H and the third party. As Mr H completed the application with
his sole name, this opened the account in Mr Hs name and was not a Santander error. In
addition, the third party was LPOA jointly and should have been made aware of the account.
Mr H didnt agree with this so brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. The investigator said that Mr H had opened
the accounts in his own name, under his own personal log in credentials and said Santander
made no error with how they registered the LPOA.
Mr H asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He now accepts that he
shouldnt have opened the aforementioned accounts in his own name. But he specifically
has drawn attention to the LPOA document itself, namely sections three and four. Mr H says
if Santander had registered the LPOA correctly, he wouldnt have been able to move money
from his parents accounts online and would need the agreement of the third party attorney to
move money from his parents accounts.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, Im issuing a provisional
decision here, as I want to clearly outline the scope of what I think we can consider and give
my thoughts on that. So for clarity, my decision here will only be a provisional one  so both
sides can respond before I reach a final decision.
Mr H has made a number of points to both Santander and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
The starting point here is that I dont think this service can investigate Mr Hs concerns that
he's raised around the LPOA and the withdrawals that he made under it. Thats because The
Financial Ombudsman Service operates under a set of rules, known as the DISP rules,
which set out the scope of our powers. These say that we can only consider a complaint
from an eligible complainant. Here Mr H says he had the intention of setting up the ISA and
regular savers in his fathers name, but he actually opened the accounts in his own name.
So he would meet the definition of an eligible complainant for being a customer of Santander
himself in terms of when he opened these accounts.
But I cant look into the issues around the registration of the LPOA and the withdrawals that
followed. That is a complaint that only his parents or those authorised to represent them are
eligible to bring, as these issues arise from their relationship with Santander rather than Mr
Hs. Mr H may have made the withdrawals at the time, but that doesnt change the fact that
only the account holder or those authorised to represent them would be eligible to complaintabout that here. And in the circumstances, I cant see that they have consented, or would
consent to us looking at this matter.
So, the only part of the complaint I can consider from Mr H is about the opening of the ISA
and regular saver accounts. Ive thought about if Santander have made a mistake when they
allowed Mr H to open these accounts in his sole name, when he wanted to open them for his
father. Im not persuaded they did anything wrong here though.
Santander explained that Mr H logged into his online banking using his own personal
credentials as he had held accounts with them. They have gone on to explain that he set the
new accounts up in his sole name and not his fathers name. Thats because there was no
reference to his father on any of the online applications. Santander said if he had put his
fathers name on the application then it wouldve registered with the LPOA for both Mr H and
the third party attorney. So overall here, Im satisfied that Santander opened Mr Hs accounts
in line with how he completed the information on the application form.
I realise that Mr H says hes realised that hes made a mistake and shouldnt have opened
the new accounts for his parents in his sole name. But I havent seen anything that makes
me think that Santander was doing anything other than following his instructions at this time.
So it follows I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Santander had no further comments to add, but Mr H responded with further 
comments. In summary he said he had a mortgage with Alliance & Leicester which ended in 
early 2008, before Santander took over their business and he asked how his parents 
couldve prevented him from having access to all of his accounts from May 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said regarding not having a personal account with 
Santander. But Santander have said that Mr H had personal savings account with them 
previously and because of this, he had his own customer profile and own online banking 
credentials for this account.
Santander said it was these online banking details which Mr H used to open the cash ISA 
and regular saver accounts. Ive seen evidence confirming that these accounts were held in 
Mr Hs sole name and Santander have also sent me screenshots of Mr Hs customer profile 
too. These clearly show that it was his personal log-in used for the online banking too, so Im 
satisfied that this was what Mr H used here. It may be that he thought he had opened and 
was using these accounts for his father, but as I explained in my provisional decision  I 
dont think its fair to hold Santander responsible for that assumption here.
Mr H has asked how, if the savings accounts were in his sole name, was his access to these 
accounts restricted by his parents? But Santander have shown that these accounts were 
closed on 13 and 14 May 2020. The LPOA was revoked on 28 May 2020. So it doesnt look 
like his access to these accounts was restricted. Instead, it looks most likely that they were 
closed after he transferred money to his parents.
As Mr H is aware, I cant comment on what happened in May 2020 with his parents and the 
LPOA as I cant look at this part of his complaint and I explained why in my provisional 
decision. In summary, Mr Hs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr H will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman