DRN-2504910
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the end of contract charges that were applied in relation to her lease 
car that was supplied through a contract hire agreement with ALD Automotive Limited 
(ALD).
 
What happened
On 25 September 2016 Mrs B hired a brand new car through a contract hire agreement with 
ALD. The monthly rental was £283.26 over 35 months, with an initial advance payment of 
£849.78.
On 26 September 2019 a British Car Auctions Logistics (BCA) representative inspected 
and collected Mrs Bs car, as she had reached the end of her agreement with ALD.
 
The vehicle collection report acknowledged the exterior and interior of the car to be clean. 
However, it found damage to the following areas:
A chip on the bonnet
A scratch on the front wing
A broken wing mirror indicator
Mrs B says the BCA representative who carried out the initial check discussed the damage 
to the front wing with her husband and agreed it was a very light scratch and would be 
considered fair wear and tear.
On 7 October 2019 an invoice was provided, detailing the damages that were deemed to be 
beyond fair wear and tear, along with their related charges. A pricing matrix and photos of 
the damaged areas were also provided. The invoice outlined the chargeable damage as:
Nearside front wing damage £206
Nearside mirror indicator damage £17.86
Mrs B queried the scratch. She said it was two separate scratches, and that each one could 
be considered as shorter than the maximum fair wear and tear length. In addition, she felt 
they wouldnt affect any resale value. Mrs B decided to complain to ALD.
 
On 15 November 2019 ALD sent their final response to Mrs B. They didnt uphold her 
complaint; they explained that the car was inspected for 45 minutes by a British Vehicle 
Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) trained inspector after it had been returned to them. 
Based on their findings ALD concluded that the scratches were in excess of 25mm and that 
the scrape was deep enough to expose the primer beneath, therefore making them beyond 
acceptable.
Mrs B disagreed with ALDs response so brought her complaint to us here. One of our 
investigators looked into her concerns and didnt uphold her complaint. They concluded that 
ALD didnt need to do anything more. Following the investigators view, Mrs B accepted that 
the damage and charge for the mirror indicator was justified, but she disputed the charge for 
the scratch on the front wing.
 
As a result, Mrs B has asked that her complaint is referred to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA, and these are accepted as 
an industry standard in determining whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear on 
passenger cars, when they are returned to a BVRLA member at the end of a finance 
agreement. In addition, the hire contract agreement refers to the BVRLA guidance as the 
standard any damage will be measured against. So, Ive referred to these standards 
throughout my decision.
conversation with BCA
My starting point is the conversation that Mrs B says took place between her husband and 
the BCA representative when the car was collected. Its at this point where she feels that her 
expectations were unfairly raised, in that she felt she didnt have to worry about the 
scratches on the front wing. 
ALD have explained that at the end of a contract, the BCA collects the vehicle for them and 
carries out a BVRLA approved inspection. The inspection report is then sent to them for 
consideration and for application of any charges that they believe to be appropriate. They go 
on to say however that although the BCA can discuss inspections, they arent authorised to 
discuss, on behalf of ALD, the charges that may be applied.
Having considered all the information I can appreciate how a conversation with the BCA 
representative about the end of contract charges could be taken with some weight, as they 
are the body that is authorised to inspect the car in accordance with the BVRLA guidance. 
However, I also cant ignore their remit. As pointed out by ALD the objective of the BCA in 
this situation is to inspect a vehicle and provide a report to them, and its from that report that 
a decision on whether any charges should apply will be made. 
Ive also reviewed the BCA vehicle collection report that was completed at the time of 
collection. I can see where the areas of damage are noted, but nowhere on the report does it 
refer to the charges that would be applied. I cant ignore that the conversation with BCA may 
have been suggestive, nor have I seen any other evidence to confirm exactly what was said 
in that conversation. In addition, the BVRLA says that following the initial inspection, the 
leasing company are able to carry out a final assessment of the vehicle to calculate what 
end of lease charges will be payable. So, having considered all the information in relation to 
this element of Mrs Bs complaint, Im not persuaded that ALD should be held accountable 
for this, and I dont think ALD have acted unfairly here.scratches to the front wing
Having concluded that ALD shouldnt be held accountable for the conversation between Mrs 
Bs husband and the BCA, I must now consider whether the damage to the front wing, itself, 
is in excess of the BVRLA fair and tear guidance.
The terms and conditions of the contract hire agreement say that the state of repair and 
condition of the vehicle is to be consistent with its age and mileage, assuming good 
treatment and allowing for fair wear and tear. It also says that ALD can charge for all sums 
necessary to restore the vehicle to a roadworthy condition satisfactory to them. 
In relation to scratches on body work the BVRLA guidance says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable, provided they can be polished out.
Having considered the images provided by the BCA, I can fairly conclude that there are two 
scratches on the front wing. They are in break of a continuous line, however its fair to say 
that one of the scratches are in excess of 25mm in length which in itself breaches the 
BVRLA guidance. Ive arrived at this conclusion with the support of the measuring implement 
that has been placed alongside the scratch in one of the images. 
I also note that each scratch has differing strengths of white along their length, which 
suggests to me that the scratches deepen at their centre and towards their end point, 
sufficiently exposing the primer underneath to breach the BVRLA fair wear and tear 
guidance. Having said that as part of the scratch is over 25mm in length, as mentioned 
above that alone would make the damage chargeable.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that ALD have reached a fair outcome and have applied 
their charges fairly and in line with their terms and conditions.
I recognise what Mrs B says that as there are two scratches which she believes to be within 
the parameters of guidance, and that she doesnt accept the charge on that basis. Although I 
agree with Mrs B, that there are two separate scratches, Ive already concluded that I dont 
think they are both within the parameters of fair wear and tear. 
In summary, Ive found one of them to be in excess of 25mm, and I find both to be in breach 
of the guidance that says a scratch is acceptable as long as the primer or bare metal is not 
showing. 
For the reasons explained, I will not be asking ALD to do anything in relation to Mrs Bs 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about ALD Automotive Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman