DRN-3791714
The complaint
Mr N complains that there was a lack of clarity and conflicting information from HSBC UK 
Bank Plc trading as HSBC and his accounts were unfairly defaulted.
What happened
Mr N has a loan and credit card with HSBC. And, towards the end of 2019, HSBC supported 
him with a 2-month Short Term No Affordability (STNO) plan. This was because Mr N was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
HSBC say that as they couldnt contact Mr N when the STNO concluded, they informed him 
their collection process would resume and this could result in a default and final demand.
Mr N found it difficult to find work in 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. HSBC say they 
continued to ask him to make contact and, in April and September 2020, issued arrears 
notices for his loan. 
Mr N contacted HSBC in January 2021 and requested payment holidays. In February 2021, 
HSBC agreed a 6-month Long Term No Affordability (LTNA) plan, however they said this 
could lead to a default notice and final demand. 
As Mr N said he would be starting a job in September, HSBC agreed a one-month hold. 
When discussing his accounts, Mr N realised that his missed payments had been accrued. 
He thought they had been suppressed so he felt he had been misinformed. 
He complained to HSBC and requested the arrears on the loan be written off. Also, that his 
credit file be restored to show no missed payments. HSBC didnt uphold his complaint and 
said no monthly contractual payments had been received since October 2019 and, as a 
result, his arrears had increased month on month. 
Mr N had an additional complaint about his credit card, which HSBC upheld and offered both 
an apology and £50 compensation. This is because they gave advice on different plans 
without going through an income and expenditure process. And, this resulted in Mr N 
thinking a plan was possible when it wasnt, due to a Final Demand having been issued. 
However, although HSBC were apologetic, they couldnt agree to Mr Ns request to stop the 
collections process.
Mr N complained to our service as he feels HSBC werent clear about the arrears on his loan 
and gave conflicting information. The outcome he is seeking is for the arrears to be written 
off and adverse information removed from his credit file.   
Our investigators view was that it was fair for HSBC to register a default. However, she 
thought HSBC should have processed the defaults much earlier. So, she said the defaults 
should be backdated to September 2020. HSBC agreed to backdate the defaults. 
However, as Mr N remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, I share the view the investigator took that it was 
fair for HSBC to process the defaults and Mr N ought to have reasonably been aware of the 
arrears. Also, that HSBC shouldve processed the default at an earlier date.
I first looked at Mr Ns circumstances including the impact of Covid-19 and whether the 
support given by HSBC was fair and reasonable. 
Im satisfied that Mr N had characteristics of vulnerability according to the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) guidance on this topic. So, I considered if HSBC should have given Mr N 
payment holidays as opposed to the above mentioned STNO and LTNA plans. This is 
because a payment holiday wouldve prevented a build-up of arrears.
Although FCA guidance included the offering of payment holidays, they said its not suitable 
for every consumer. And, there is evidence on file that Mr N was unable to make payments 
in 2019, which was prior to the pandemic. Also, Im mindful that the FCA guidance was 
about short-term support and banks shouldnt be expected to hold an account open 
indefinitely without payment. In addition, HSBC put in place a STNO plan in 2019 and tried 
to reach out to Mr N. 
So, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to view a payment holiday as unsuitable. And, whilst 
the plans HSBC put in place meant arrears accrued, they offered help by stopping charges 
and interest. HSBC also provided Mr N with contact information and details of charities and 
organisations he could contact for free advice. So, considering the amount of missed 
payments here, Im satisfied that HSBCs support was fair and reasonable. 
I then considered whether Mr N had been misled and I viewed correspondence, contact 
notes and listened to the call recordings on file. Although Mr N says he was confused and 
would have preferred HSBC to have phrased arrears differently, I found all the file 
information clarified that the monthly contractual payments were still due. And, any missed 
payments would be classed as arrears and reported to credit reference agencies. So, Im not 
persuaded that HSBC have been unclear on the arrears and I think Mr N shouldve been 
reasonably aware contractual payments were still due. 
Although I agree with the investigator, that HSBC shouldve processed the defaults sooner, I 
couldnt see they had made any processing or communication errors and had acted in a fair 
and reasonable way. This is because Mr N had missed a significant number of contractual 
payments over a two-year period. And, despite the above-mentioned support, its clear that 
Mr N couldnt make the payments.  Also, under a credit agreement, the minimum monthly 
payments or the contractual monthly payments for a loan must be made  otherwise, 
account holders are judged to be in arrears. And banks normally consider a default if 
payments are missed for at least three months.
Finally, I looked at the conflicting information Mr N received over a credit card payment plan.
As HSBC dont dispute there was a communication error when discussing the credit card, 
whats left for me to decide is what is fair and reasonable to put this particular error right. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that HSBCs apology and £50 compensation is fair for this type 
of error. And, that because of HSBCs Final Demand actions, caused by non-payment, it 
wouldve been unreasonable for HSBC to stop their collections process.So, considering all of the above, I dont think HSBC need to take any further action with 
regards to Mr Ns complaints. 
However, I have noted that HSBC agree that there was a prolonged period of time where Mr 
N didnt make a payment and it would have been fair for the default to be applied earlier, in 
September 2020, when it became apparent that Mr N was not able to make the contractual 
payments. So, I will instruct HSBC to backdate the default dates for both the loan and credit 
card account. This will reduce the period the default will be held on Mr Ns credit file.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as HSBC has already made an offer to pay Mr N £50 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. And, following the 
investigators view HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as HSBC have offered to backdate the 
default, for both the loan and credit card account, to September 2020.
So, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as HSBC should pay Mr N £50 
including any amounts it has already paid. Also, HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as HSBC should 
backdate the default, for both the loan and credit card account, to September 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman