DRN-4126557
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by True Potential Wealth Management LLP 
(TPWM) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for 
him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme  the British Steel Pension 
Scheme (BSPS)  from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the 
Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, 
members were informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Cs employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and agreed steps carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. 
On 16 October 2017, the BSPS provided Mr C with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £305,510.
In November 2017, Mr C contacted TPWM for advice about his pension. TPWM has said 
Mr C was put in touch with it by his financial adviser.
A fact-find has been provided by TPWM, showing information gathered about Mr Cs 
circumstances and objectives. In its subsequent response to the complaint, it has indicated 
that this information was gathered by the adviser who referred Mr C to TPWM. This recorded 
that Mr C was 42, in good health, married with two dependent children. He and Mrs C were 
both employed full time and their income was recorded as comfortably exceeding their 
outgoings each month. In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr C was also a 
member of his employers new defined contribution (DC) pension scheme, with the fact find 
recording he was making contributions equivalent to 10% of his salary, with his employer 
doing the same. It was also noted that Mr C had very limited investing experience.
TPWM recorded that neither Mr nor Mrs C expected to retire before age 60. And Mr C didnt 
know when he would retire and might look to do something else if he eventually left his 
current employer. TPWM noted that Mr C was considering moving his DB scheme benefits 
because hed lost trust in his employer so wanted control over his pension. It said he was 
also interested in being able to leave the whole sum to his family upon his death and the 
flexibility to access benefits from age 55 without incurring a penalty.
TPWM also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk. It said, having done so, 
Mr C best fitted the profile of a Capital Growth Investor. TPWM explained that this meant a 
investor who may be willing to accept high risk and chance of loss in order to achieve higher 
returns on his or her investment. Significant losses over an extended period may prompt the 
Capital Growth Investor to shift to a less risky investment.
On 28 November 2017, TPWM advised Mr C to transfer his BSPS benefits into a True 
Potential SIPP and invest the proceeds in its growth portfolio. The suitability report said Mr C 
was concerned about his benefits transferring to the PPF and the potential impact of this and 
that he wanted to take control of his pension. TPWM said Mr C had no requirement for an 
income from his DB scheme or to replicate the benefits it provided. And so, it considered a 
transfer was suitable as it gave Mr C control of his pension, flexibility to take benefits as and 
when he chose and would enable the fund to be left as a lump sum to his beneficiaries.
I understand a transfer was completed in line with this recommendation.
Mr C complained to TPWM in 2021. He said, after receiving a letter from the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about pension mis-selling, hed become concerned 
about the suitability of the transfer advice hed received.
TPWM didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said the advice was suitable based on Mr Cs 
circumstances and it provided him with clear information, so it felt hed made an informed 
decision about transferring.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An investigator considered the complaint and 
thought it should be upheld and that TPWM should compensate Mr C for any loss the DB 
transfer had led to as well as pay £350 for the distress caused. He didnt think the 
recommendation was based on a detailed enough analysis of Mr Cs circumstances. And he 
didnt think Mr C had a need to transfer or that doing so was in his best interests. So, the 
Investigator thought he should instead have been advised to join the BSPS2.
TPWM didnt agree. It said it was required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr C, which it thought it had done. It said the Investigator had used a 
significant degree of hindsight, which it thought was unreasonable and TPWM also said the 
Investigator had placed too much weight on the critical yields and discount rate and that 
these were largely irrelevant here. It remained of the view that Mr C did not require the 
guaranteed benefits of the DB scheme to meet his retirement needs, so based on his 
circumstances and stated objectives, it still considered the transfer was suitable. It also 
argued that Mr C had made a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer, and that 
he would have still sought to proceed if it had recommended against doing so, such was his 
strength of feeling. And it said that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the time of the 
advice. TPWM also raised several other objections to our approach to considering DB 
transfer complaints in general, which it believed contradicted that of the FCA.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred for 
a decision by an Ombudsman.In August 2022 the regulator, the FCA, launched a consultation on changes to its DB 
transfer redress guidance. So, the Investigator wrote to Mr C to advise him of the FCAs 
proposed changes which were due to come into effect in April 2023 and to give him the 
option to have any redress due to him calculated under the then current guidance or to wait 
for the new rules to come into effect. Mr C indicated initially he would like redress calculated 
under the guidance in place at the time. But the Investigator explained that if the complaint 
hadnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time the new rules came into effect, he 
expected TPWM to carry out a calculation in line with the updated rules and guidance in any 
event.
TPWM later said, although it didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, it would look to 
make an offer to resolve matters. But it calculated that Mr C had not incurred a loss, based 
on the FCAs redress guidance in place prior to April 2023. As a result, it offered to pay £350 
for the distress caused, as recommended, in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Mr C did not accept this offer and indicated hed still like an Ombudsman to review matters. 
He noted former colleagues whod made similar complaints had received significantly 
different calculations. So, he questioned whether hed been disadvantaged by the way the 
calculation had been carried out. 
TPWM has indicated that it has since run a calculation under the new redress rules 
introduced by the FCA. But that this also showed Mr C had not incurred a loss. Although this 
was not done using the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator which has recently been 
introduced.
As agreement could not be reached, Im now providing a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TPWM has said that the FCA has undertaken a review of its advice process in relation to 
members of the BSPS and didnt highlight any concerns. It has therefore questioned how our 
service can come to a different conclusion  that transfer advice was unsuitable. But our role 
is different to that of the FCA. It is to look at the individual circumstances of a complaint and 
decide what we consider is fair and reasonable. That is what Ive done here. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of TPWM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
TPWM says that it was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was 
suitable for Mr C. I agree that under COBS TPWM was required to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr C was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). 
However, as Ive mentioned above, additional regulations apply to advising on transferring 
out of DB schemes. These additional regulations say that the starting assumption for a 
transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business should only have 
considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was 
in Mr Cs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im 
not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
TPWM carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). 
TPWM has argued in response to the complaint that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option 
at the time it provided advice and may not have gone ahead. But I think TPWM is overstating 
the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. The restructuring of BSPS had been ongoing for a 
significant amount of time by the point TPWM instructed the TVAS reports and provided 
Mr C advice. Mr Cs employer had agreed actions with the pensions regulator, and these 
had been carried out as scheduled  not least a lump sum payment into the BSPS which 
enabled the provision of improved transfer value quotations, like the one Mr C received in 
October 2017. Mr C had also received his time to choose pack  with joining the new 
scheme one of the options. And details of the new scheme had been provided. So, based on 
what had happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were 
confident at that point that the BSPS2 would go ahead. And the TVAS TPWM carried out 
used the revaluation rates and anticipated scheme details of the BSPS2 when providing a 
comparison. So, it appears, contrary to what TPWM now argues, that it too seems to have 
considered at the time that the BSPS2 was likely to come about.
TPWM also says the critical yield is of limited relevance because Mr C didnt have a need for 
a guaranteed income from this pension, so wasnt looking for equivalent benefits. Given 
though Mr C was 42 and had a number of years until he could take his pension benefits  in 
which time his circumstances or plans could change  it was entirely possible that when he 
did retire, he may have wanted greater guarantees for his income. And in any event, the 
regulator required TPWM to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be 
achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, I do think an analysis of the critical 
yield is a relevant consideration here.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. TPWM says that 
referring to the discount rate was not required by the regulator. So, has suggested our 
Service is wrong to take this into account. But I think discount rates are a reasonable 
additional consideration here. I acknowledge that TPWM was not required to refer to the discount rate when giving advice. 
But it was free to do so. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare 
the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal 
pension by using reasonable assumptions. And I think the discount rates provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a 
typical investor. And so would, in my view, be a reasonable assumption by which to compare 
the benefits likely to be paid under a personal pension with those payable under a DB 
scheme.
TPWM has also said that the performance of the recommended fund since the advice 
exceeds the discount rate. But TPWM also commented about using hindsight being 
unreasonable. Future performance at the time the advice was given was unknown. And past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance. So, I consider the discount rates and 
the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather 
than projecting historic returns forward.
Mr C was 42 at the time of the advice. TPWM has said in response to the complaint that 
Mr C expected to retire at age 60 and the suitability report referred to this. The critical yield 
required to match Mr Cs benefits at age 60 was 5.74% if he took a full pension and 4.78% if 
he took the maximum available tax-free cash (TFC) and a reduced pension. The critical 
yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 was quoted as 4.53% per 
year if Mr C took a full pension and 4.27% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.4% per year for 17 full years to retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
recorded attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr C 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, it doesnt appear likely that Mr C 
would improve on the guaranteed benefits he was already entitled to at age 60, as a result of 
investing in line with that attitude to risk and that this would be the case even if the scheme 
moved to the PPF. And in fact, it seems it was likely hed have always received benefits of 
an overall lower value that those the BSPS2 wouldve provided at that age.
TPWM has said that the critical yields for retiring at age 65 were also calculated as part of 
the TVAS but these have not been taken into account. 
The critical yield to match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided at age 65 was 4.62% if 
Mr C took a full pension and 3.84% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. And to match 
benefits available through the PPF at age 65 were quoted as 3.97% per year if Mr C took a 
full pension and 3.73% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension. Meanwhile the 
discount rate for 22 years to retirement, as would be the case for retiring at age 65, was 
4.5% and the regulators standard projections were as previously noted.
These do support that there was a greater chance of improving on the benefits the DB 
scheme provided at age 65 as a result of a transfer in most scenarios than those that 
wouldve been provided at age 60. Although, if Mr C took the full pension the BSPS2 
wouldve provided, it still appears unlikely hed have been better off. And there was no 
indication that Mr C expected to have a need to take TFC at retirement, and no purpose for 
this was recorded as part of the fact find. But this was not certain. In any event though, TPWM has said that Mr C wanted to retire at age 60. The suitability 
report refers to this as his desired retirement age. And TPWM has said its advice was on this 
basis. So, while I accept the fact find noted that Mr C wasnt sure when he would retire  
which given how far he was from retirement isnt unreasonable as his plans were likely to be 
subject to change  given this was the basis of the advice given, I think a comparison of the 
benefits available at 60 is the most appropriate consideration here.
And taking all of this into account, from a financial viability perspective, I dont think a 
transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mr Cs best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt 
the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations 
which mean a transfer is suitable, despite being likely to provide overall lower benefits. Ive 
considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
TPWM recorded that Mr and Mrs Cs expenditure at the time of its advice was approximately 
£1,965 per month. Of this £600 per month represented mortgage payments, which would 
cease before they retired. So, if all other expenditure remained the same, theyd likely need 
£1,365 per month (£16,380 per year) in retirement  although it says Mr C expected the 
actual figure required to be lower as their children would no longer be financially dependent 
on them at that time. It said their state pensions and anticipated rental income of £400 per 
month from a second property they owned, would meet these requirements from age 67. So, 
they didnt need a guaranteed income from Mr Cs DB scheme for the entirety of their 
retirement. And TPWM says Mr C was interested in flexibility in terms of how he could 
access his pension. And the fact find noted that he was interested in being able to access 
the pension from age 55 without penalty. But as Ill explain, I dont think Mr C needed 
flexibility from this pension.
Again, TPWM recorded that Mr C didnt expect to retire before 60. So, I cant see that the 
information supported him needing or wanting to be able to access his pension benefits from 
age 55. There was no indication of an expected expenditure that would require funding from 
the pension.
As I understand it the BSPS2 and the PPF wouldve allowed Mr C to draw pension benefits 
from age 60  his recorded preferred retirement age  or age 55. TPWM says that these 
schemes were rigid in terms of how benefits could be drawn. And it is true that once Mr C 
began taking benefits under either of these, they couldnt be varied  hed receive an 
escalating annual pension without the facility to alter this. But again, Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Mr C needed a flexible income in retirement. It is true that if Mr C drew his 
benefits at age 60, or 55 for that matter, under either the PPF or the BSPS2 the amount he 
could take would be subject to actuarial reduction. But an actuarial reduction is intended to 
reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer. The starting monetary amount when 
compared with the full pension payable from age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  
wouldve been less. But by retiring early Mr C wouldve been receiving his pension for 
several years longer. It was a trade-off, rather than a penalty.
The TVAS report estimated that, at age 60, the BSPS2 could provide either a full starting 
pension of £15,947 per year or TFC of £76,320 and a reduced starting pension of £11,448 
per year. Alternatively, the PPF would provide an estimated starting income of £13,490.66 
per year or TFC of £73,416.04 and a reduced pension starting at £11,014.06 per year. All of 
the annual pensions amounts would continue to escalate while in payment.These annual amounts fell short of Mr and Mrs Cs expected income needs of £16,380 per 
year. But Mr C was a member of the new defined contribution pension scheme his employer 
had put in place after the BSPS had closed. And, I havent seen any suggestion he intended 
to change employer prior to retirement. Again, it was over 17 years until he was apparently 
considering retirement. He and his employers contributions to this new scheme were 
recording as combining to be equivalent to 20% of his salary. So, before even accounting for 
increases in salary, investment growth or Mr C increasing his contributions, by age 60 this 
fund was likely to be worth in excess of £125,000. And this fund couldve potentially been 
used flexibly from age 60. This couldve either been used to supplement income from the DB 
scheme, or to meet Mr Cs needs entirely and allow him to defer drawing benefits from the 
DB scheme, and not incur an actuarial reduction, until the normal scheme retirement age. 
And this is before accounting for any retirement provisions Mrs C mayve had.
So, Im satisfied that Mr C did not need to transfer to meet his stated income needs from age 
60.
TPWM argues that Mr C didnt need a guaranteed income at all and transferring meant he 
could meet his needs from ages 60  67 and rely on his other means after this. And from the 
point Mr C became eligible for state pension, it appears his income wouldve exceeded his 
stated needs. And any rental income, if this had come about  because at the time of the 
advice this second property was not being rented and there was no guarantee it wouldve 
been retained or achieved the estimated rent stated  wouldve added to that surplus. But I 
dont see that having a surplus income in retirement, which was guaranteed and not subject 
to market risk, was a negative or that this means transferring was in Mr Cs best interests. 
Particularly when he seems unlikely to have improved on the guaranteed income by 
transferring.
And Im also conscious that, again, Mr C was only 42 at the time of the advice  over 17 
years from the earliest point he expected to retire. His circumstances and needs were likely 
subject to change, and his income requirements couldve been higher than initially 
estimated. Remaining in the DB scheme meant he wouldve been guaranteed an income 
that appears to have been sufficient to meet those needs. And wouldve meant he could 
meet higher income needs, in combination with other provisions, if they came about. So, I 
dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests to make an irreversible decision to transfer his 
pension at the point he did just to have flexibility that he didnt need. 
Death benefits
TPWM says Mr C was drawn to being able to leave the pension to his family in the event of 
his death. And it said the spouses pension wasnt particularly generous and Mrs C would 
not have relied on this.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr C. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr C might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr C about what 
was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. TPWM says that Mrs C had retirement provisions of her own and would not rely on the 
spouses pension Mr Cs pension provided. But the details of Mrs Cs pension entitlement 
dont appear to have been known  or at least werent recorded in the information Ive seen. 
So, I cant rule out she would have needed the existing spouses pension. And certainly, at 
the least, it was likely to provide a useful additional income, in the event Mr C predeceased 
her. And this was guaranteed, and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr C drew in his lifetime. Mr C was 
recorded as being in good health, so there was nothing to suggest he was less like to live 
until at least his average life expectancy  a significant period of time over which benefits 
could be drawn. So, the value of the DB scheme couldve been significantly depleted by the 
time it came to be passed on and may not have provided the legacy that Mr C may have 
thought it would.
The new defined contribution pension Mr C was contributing to also provided alternative 
forms of death benefit to his DB scheme. So couldve provided a legacy while keeping 
Mr Cs guaranteed retirement income intact. And in any event, TPWM should not have 
encouraged Mr C to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr C genuinely wanted to leave a further legacy for his family, beyond the 
new defined contribution pension, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of 
his pension fund remained on his death, I think TPWM shouldve instead explored life 
insurance. Mr C was recorded as being in good health. So based on this, and his age at the 
time, its likely this wouldve been available at a reasonable cost. And the fact find indicated 
he has a surplus income at the time, so had money that couldve been used to pay the 
premiums each month. And in retirement, he couldve used the apparent excess income the 
DB scheme and his other provisions would combine to provide, to continue with these 
premiums.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension meant that a transfer was in Mr Cs best interests.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
TPWM says Mr C wanted control of his pension because of the distrust he had for his 
employer given what had gone on to that point and the CETV being generous.
I think Mr Cs desire for direct control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr C was 
not an experienced investor  with the fact find noting him having very limited experience. 
So, I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. And I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr C  it 
was simply a consequence of transferring away from the BSPS.I think this objective was more linked to the uncertainty about the BSPS. I dont doubt Mr C, 
like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. His employer had 
been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears to have been 
a general mistrust and lack of optimism. And Mr C had been told, in recent correspondence 
from the scheme, he was going to need to make a choice about his pension  which I doubt 
is something hed done or contemplated before. And he mightve felt unequipped to do so. I 
also dont doubt Mr C had likely heard negative things about what could happen, including 
entry into the PPF. And its quite possible he was leaning towards the decision to transfer 
because of his concerns. But that is why it was even more important for TPWM to give Mr C 
an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. The time to choose paperwork was clear that opting into that scheme was an 
option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that this would go ahead. And I think this 
shouldve alleviated some of Cs concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF. 
While Mr C mightve had a significant distrust towards his employer, the BSPS2 and its 
trustees and Mr Cs employer were separate. They werent one and the same, something 
which I think couldve been discussed in more detail. TPWM has argued that the adviser 
could not document every conversation, but Id have expected the suitability report to 
specifically address Mr Cs concerns about this. 
Ive also seen no indication Mr C was planning to sever all ties with his employer by finding 
work elsewhere. He was also again part of the new defined contribution pension scheme the 
employer had set up and was contributing willingly to that plan. So, I think the issue of 
distrust couldve been address with objective advice about the BSPS2. And the BSPS2 
wouldve still enabled Mr C to transfer at a later date.
TPWM has argued that the CETV was likely to be lower if Mr C deferred a decision about 
transferring and joined the BSPS2. But what CETV the BSPS2 may offer in the future is 
ultimately unknown. I dont doubt that the CETV figure was appealing. But again, Mr C was 
an inexperienced investor who came to TPWM for advice. I think the guarantees the DB 
scheme provided were more appropriate for Mr C based on his circumstances at the time. 
Which I think TPWM shouldve explained.
In addition, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that TPWM 
shouldve reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. Although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, it would still have 
provided a guaranteed income for the rest of his life that was not subject to any investment 
risk. He couldve drawn this from age 60, as TPWM indicated he intended to. And he wasnt 
likely to improve on this income from that point by transferring. A transfer also meant he was 
taking on additional risk and, for the reasons Ive already explained, I cant see that doing so 
was in his interests. 
So, I dont think that Mr Cs concerns and mistrust of his employer shouldve led to TPWM 
recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Suitability of investments
TPWM recommended how Mr C invest in the SIPP. But as Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr C, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr C should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments 
wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and alternative death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr C. But TPWM wasnt 
there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to 
understand Mr Cs circumstances, separate his concerns stemming from the consultation 
and his unconfirmed plans for retirement from his genuine needs and recommend what was 
in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was unlikely, in my view, 
to improve his retirement benefits and had no other particular reason to transfer which would 
justify giving up these guarantees. His existing provisions wouldve met his stated needs and 
provided additional capacity should those estimates have proven to be conservative. And he 
couldve left a legacy for his family through his defined contribution scheme and insurance 
had this been a genuine concern. So, I dont think it was in Mr Cs best interests for him to 
transfer his DB scheme to a SIPP. And I think TPWM shouldve recommended that he not 
transfer and instead move to the BSPS2.
TPWM says the BSPS2 was not certain to proceed and that it is unreasonable for us to say 
Mr C shouldve been advised to join this scheme as it wasnt a genuine option. I appreciate 
that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given. But, as Ive already 
explained, I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead  particularly 
as it was referred to in the time to choose documentation and TPWM carried out its transfer 
analysis in comparison to the benefits it provided. So, contrary to what TPWM has said, I do 
think this was an option that it couldve recommended at the time. 
Mr C had over 17 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated he might like to 
retire. But his plans were in any event unconfirmed. I don't think that it would've been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr C wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think TPWM shouldve 
advised Mr C to opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against TPWM's 
advice. TPWM argues that this is the case, because of the strength of Mr Cs unhappiness 
and distrust towards his employer.
I dont doubt that Mr C likely had a negative opinion of his employer at that time in respect of 
the pension arrangements, given what had happened to that point. And hed likely put a lot 
of thought to the information hed been given to that point about his options. But again, Mr C 
still worked for the employer and hadnt indicated an intention to stop. So, I dont think the 
relationship and trust was as irretrievably broken down as TPWM has suggested. And his 
employer and the pension scheme trustees were not one and the same.  
And ultimately TPWM advised Mr C, an inexperienced investor, to transfer his benefits, and I 
think Mr C relied on that advice. If TPWM had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.Im not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about the consultation or the PPF, or the potential 
appeal of alternative death benefits, control or flexibility were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if 
TPWM had explained that Mr C was always unlikely to exceed the guaranteed benefits 
available to him by transferring, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr C would have insisted on transferring.
In light of the above, I think TPWM should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
I know Mr C has indicated he is unhappy with the calculations TPWM has undertaken so far, 
noting that he feels he has been disadvantaged as colleagues calculations have come back 
differently. But the award here is not intended to fine or punish TPWM. The intention is to put 
Mr C as far as possible into the position he would now be in. And that might be that he has 
not suffered a loss. In any event, ultimately the regulator has set out what it deems to be 
appropriate redress to put right instances of unsuitable defined benefit pension transfer 
advice. And I see no reason to depart from this in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator recommended that TPWM also pay Mr C £350 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr C has been caused distress and concern by 
finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended is fair. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have 
most likely elected to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
TPWM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Although TWM has said it has previously estimated that Mr C did not incur a loss, as a final 
decision was requested by Mr C with those calculations ultimately having been rejected, 
TPWM should undertake a new calculation, upon receipt of confirmation of Mr Cs 
acceptance of this decision. It should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to 
calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our 
Service upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation 
should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions 
in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, TPWM should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts TPWMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, TPWM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, TPWM should pay Mr C £350 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman