DRN-2110342
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her fee-paying Silver 
packaged bank accounts, which were sold to her in April 2008, July 2008 and July 2011. 
Mrs K she was not given any information about the account costs or benefits and felt 
pressured into agreeing to them. She says she felt taken advantage of as she didnt 
understand what a packaged bank account was.
What happened
Mrs K initially opened a fee-free account with Lloyds on 1 May 2007. This account was 
upgraded to a fee-paying Silver account in April 2008. 
A short while later, in July 2008, Mrs K opened a second account and asked that the account 
fee be paid out of that account instead of the first one. So the first account was downgraded 
to a fee-free account and the second account was opened as a Silver account, and 
remained as such until it was closed in June 2009. This effectively meant that Mrs K 
continued to have a Silver account but was paying the account fee out of a different account.
Mrs K later upgraded her first account back to a fee-paying Silver account in July 2011.
Lloyds said that our service is unable to consider the complaint about the Silver account sold 
in July 2011. One of our adjudicators considered what Lloyds had said and she agree that 
we were unable to consider the complaint about that sale. She then went on to consider 
whether the earlier packaged accounts had been mis-sold. She didnt think they had.
Mrs Ks representative, a claims management company (CMC), disagreed with the 
adjudicators conclusion that the earlier packaged accounts had not been mis-sold and 
asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mrs Ks complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is 
available and the wider circumstances at the time. Having considered everything that Mrs K, 
the CMC and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont think the earlier Silver accounts were 
mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mrs K says that she felt pressured into agreeing to a fee-paying account and felt taken 
advantage of as she didnt understand what a packaged bank account was at the time. 
However, before the packaged accounts were sold to Mrs K, I can see that shed held a fee-
free account with Lloyds for nearly a year. And when Mrs K wanted to pay for the account 
fee out of a different account, she was able to downgrade her first Silver account back to a 
fee-free account. 
As such, Im satisfied that Mrs K was aware fee-free accounts were available and that she 
didnt have to have a fee-paying account if she didnt want one. And although Mrs K says 
she was pressured into agreeing to take out a packaged account and that she didnt 
understand what a packaged account was, given that she agreed to take one out on three 
separate occasions leads me to think she did understand what they were and actively chose 
to take them out, rather than was pressured into agreeing to something she didnt really 
want.
Lloyds said it recommended the Silver account sold in April 2008. I understand the Silver 
account taken out in July 2008 was not recommended and was only opened to transfer the 
account fee to another account. This meant that Lloyds had to make sure the Silver account 
sold in April 2008 was a good fit for Mrs Ks circumstances.
The sales documentation that Lloyds has provided shows that Mrs K said she occasionally 
travelled at the time. And the Silver account was the cheapest account to offer travel 
insurance. So I dont think it was inappropriate of Lloyds to have recommended this account 
to her. 
I cant be sure exactly was discussed with Mrs K. But the sales documentation does suggest 
that the travel insurance was discussed with Mrs K. And given that Mrs K wanted the 
account fee to be charged to a different account a short time after the Silver account was 
sold to her, I think its likely that shed been told about the monthly account fee during the 
sale too. And I can see that Mrs K benefited from a reduced account fee during the first three 
months she held it, so again I think this was a reason why she agreed to it.
I appreciate that Lloyds might not have given Mrs K all of the information it shouldve when it 
sold Mrs K the Silver accounts in April and July 2008. But Ive not seen anything about Mrs 
Ks circumstances at the time that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing 
to the account, had she been given even more information about it.
Therefore, having carefully considered everything that Mrs K, the CMC and Lloyds has 
provided, I dont think the Silver accounts sold in April or July 2008 were mis-sold. I therefore 
think that it would be inappropriate to require Lloyds to refund the monthly account fees that 
Mrs K was charged to have the Silver accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman