DRN-3298037
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC defaulted their loan account and 
moved it to its recoveries team due to arrears.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N say they wrote to their former branch manager in March 2020 to propose 
taking out a consolidation loan with which they could pay off the existing loan and two credit 
card accounts. Lloyds has no record of receiving this letter.
Shortly afterwards, having seen information on Lloyds website about payment holidays, Mr 
and Mrs N contacted the helpline and were granted a payment holiday for a few months, 
returning to paying the contractual amounts in July and August 2020. At the beginning of 
September 2020 they contacted Lloyds again saying they wanted to reduce their payments 
for three months as they needed to make some essential purchases. They had recently 
completed an Income and Expenditure (I&E) exercise which showed a surplus monthly 
income of £615. They said theyd like to offer £400 and that was agreed as a temporary plan 
for three months.
When that plan came to an end, Mr and Mrs N rang Lloyds again on 13 November 2020. 
This time the I&E showed a monthly deficit of -£443. Lloyds offered to accept zero 
repayments for three months. Therefore, as far as Mr and Mrs N were concerned, they didnt 
have to make any further payments during December 2020 to February 2021. But Lloyds 
failed to set this arrangement up on its system.
On 25 January 2021 Mr and Mrs N logged into online banking and found that the loan 
account had disappeared. When they then rang Lloyds they were told that the loan had 
defaulted and been sent to the recoveries team. They were unhappy with this as the action 
had taken place before the existing zero payment plan had come to an end and without the 
promised review. At this time their I&E showed a monthly surplus of £156 and Lloyds offered 
a monthly repayment amount of £100 for six months (which was subsequently reduced to 
£50 per month).
In response to the complaint, Lloyds apologised for not setting up the zero payment plan in 
November 2020 and paid Mr and Mrs N £80 compensation for poor service. But it said that if 
it had set up the plan at that time the arrears would have continued to increase. The most 
recent assessment had concluded that an affordable payment was £100 per month which 
showed that they would have been unable to maintain the full contractual payment of £693 
and clear the outstanding arrears. As such, the option that would have been given when the 
plan came to an end would have been to move the account to recoveries anyway. 
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy with this response. They would like Lloyds to remove the 
default notice on their credit file and to consider their proposal about taking out a 
consolidation loan.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Mr and Mrs N had long-term 
financial difficulties and so the account would have eventually defaulted anyway. So 
although the loan account was closed in error, the £80 offered by Lloyds was reasonable 
redress for the inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs N disagree with the investigators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs N have said, they are honourable people who have never tried to hide their 
money problems from Lloyds; there is no doubt about that. But what I need to consider is 
whether Lloyds acted fairly in defaulting the account when it did, and if so, was there any 
detriment to Mr and Mrs N as a result.
Mr and Mrs N werent in arrears at the time they say they wrote to the branch manager in 
March 2020. But as with any application for borrowing  Lloyds would have needed to 
assess the affordability and sustainability of any lending it was being asked to provide. So 
theres no guarantee that their application would have been successful. They also had 
access to online and phone banking and could have made an application that way.
But Lloyds has no record of receiving the letter. So Lloyds couldnt act on a request that it 
never received. It may be that the letter went missing in the post, but thats not something I 
could hold Lloyds fairly liable for here.
Shortly after this, Mr and Mrs N were in fairly regular phone contact with Lloyds about their 
repayments. From the system contact notes that Lloyds has provided, I cant see that they 
enquired about whether their letter had been received or discussed their proposal about a 
consolidation loan when speaking to any advisers. For example, on 2 September 2020 Mr N 
enquired about being able to make reduced payments for a few months and suggested 
repayments of £400, which was agreed. 
Mr and Mrs N say they did mention the idea of taking out a consolidation loan. However, 
they say that whenever they called Lloyds, it was Lloyds that was directing matters in terms 
of available solutions  be it a payment holiday, reduced payments or zero payments  all of 
which they were grateful for and so went along with.
I appreciate that, to some extent, Mr and Mrs N felt that they were being led by Lloyds in 
terms of next steps. Its perfectly natural that they would feel grateful for what was being 
offered and so didnt continue to pursue the idea of taking out a consolidation loan in any 
meaningful way at that time. But I also think that shows that Lloyds was offering 
proportionate and reasonable help based on Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is that, if the zero payment plan had been set up as it 
should in November 2020, they would have contacted Lloyds in advance of the plan coming 
to an end to review a way forward with it. As it was, the loan was defaulted by Lloyds in the 
month before the plan was due to end. So Mr and Mrs N missed the opportunity to come to 
an alternative longer-term arrangement.
But the possibility of the loan being defaulted didnt come out of the blue. As the payment 
plan wasnt set up correctly, Lloyds systems started to generate chaser letters to Mr and 
Mrs N. So although they thought they had reached an arrangement with Lloyds on 13 
November 2020 that would last until February 2021, Lloyds has shown they were sent a 
number of letters that contradicted that. Mr and Mrs N say they didnt receive any notification 
of this until 25 January 2021, which is when they logged into online banking to check the 
status of the account. Mr and Mrs N have said that they didnt receive certain letters. But as they were correctly 
addressed, and often sent separately to both Mr and Mrs N, I think its more likely than not 
that they received at least some of these letters which would have alerted them that 
something wasnt right here. In any event, Lloyds wasnt aware that Mr and Mrs N werent 
receiving them, where they were correctly addressed and not returned as undelivered.
Mr and Mrs N again wrote to the branch manager on 6 March 2021 asking for help to return 
dealings to a stable footing by taking out a consolidation loan, but this was after the account 
has already defaulted. This time the letter was received and made its way to the correct 
department within Lloyds. Lloyds has a system note dated 19 March 2021 stating that it has 
sent a contact letter to Mr and Mrs N as it is unable to provide consolidation loan in back 
office.  But Mr and Mrs N say they never received the contact letter.
It is clear that Lloyds made an error in not setting up the zero payment plan. But, even 
though I accept a mistake was made, I dont think the outcome would have been much 
different if it had been set up correctly.
I say this because payment plans like the ones agreed here are usually only temporary 
solutions to financial difficulties. And once these options have been exhausted, if someone 
isnt able to pay off the arrears and return to their normal contractual repayment, it is likely 
that their account would be passed to a recovery team or agent and a default recorded on a 
customers credit file.
Based on the available evidence, I think that its more likely than not that if things had 
happened as they should have, the account would still have defaulted. If the zero payment 
plan had been set up to end on 13 February 2021, Mr N would likely have called just before 
to discuss the way forward. The I&E from around that time shows a monthly surplus of only 
£156. So, based on this, they had no ability to pay off the arrears and return to the 
contractual repayments. That means its unlikely that Lloyds would have agreed any further 
lending, like the consolidation loan Mr and Mrs N wanted, where there would have been 
questions around any affordability here.
So at this point I think it was clear that Mr and Mrs Ns financial difficulties werent just short 
term and that they couldnt return to maintaining the account in line with the original 
agreement. In those circumstances Lloyds would be entitled to transfer the account to its 
recoveries department and to record a default on Mr and Mrs Ns credit files. As such I think 
that Lloyds would have defaulted the account anyway. So the result of Lloyds error was that 
the account was defaulted a few weeks before it would otherwise have been. That being the 
case, I think that Lloyds compensation payment of £80 for poor service was reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman