DRN-2811785
The complaint
Mr W complained that Santander UK Plc closed and transferred the balances of three joint 
accounts he was named on to the other party without his authority.
What happened
Mr W held accounts with Santander in joint names with another party. In September 2018, 
having previously been advised of a split between the parties, Santander agreed to stop the 
accounts and amended the instructions so that both parties needed to sign to authorise any 
withdrawal or transfer from them. 
A financial settlement Between Mr W and the other party was negotiated and agreed in 
December 2019. A court order was made in March 2020 defining the financial settlement. In 
particular, the court order stated that the parties should sign all documentation and do all 
things necessary to facilitate the transfer of the joint bank accounts from the joint names of 
the applicant (the other party) and the respondent (Mr W) to the sole name of the applicant. 
The applicant should retain all monies currently in the joint bank account.
The other party approached Santander on 30 March 2020 asking them to close the joint 
accounts and to transfer any funds to them. They provided Santander with a copy of the 
court order dated 20 March 2020.
Upon receipt of this instruction, Santander closed the joint accounts and transferred the 
funds as requested by the other party.
Mr W thought that Santander hadnt acted in line with the signing instructions held for the 
accounts. He believed that the court order didnt give Santander authority to do anything 
except to wait until both parties had authorised the transfer of the accounts and their 
proceeds. So, he complained to Santander.
Santander replied to Mr W in writing in April 2020. They said that theyd acted in line with the 
court order provided by the other party. They didnt agree that theyd done anything wrong.
Mr W wasnt happy with Santanders response. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. She didnt think 
that Santander had made a mistake or treated Mr W unfairly.
Mr W wasnt happy with our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reviewing Mr Ws complaint, its relevant to confirm that the role of this service is as an 
Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) service for consumers with complaints against 
financial organisations whose activities are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Our role doesnt extend to disputes between individuals or bodies not regulated by 
the FCA. There are separate options, processes and procedures for such situations.
Mr Ws complaint relates to his belief that Santander acted beyond their authority by 
transferring funds from the joint accounts without his own express written authority. He 
believes that while the court order made in March 2020 specifies that the funds should be 
paid to the other party to the joint accounts, the account signing instructions spay that both 
parties needed to sign any transfer authority. Mr W believes that the court order doesnt 
provide Santander with the authority to ignore the signing instruction.
Ive considered the content of the court order referred to. In particular, it does state The 
parties shall sign all documentation and do all things necessary to facilitate the transfer of 
the joint accounts. So, I can understand why Mr W believes that Santander made a mistake 
here because he didnt authorise the transfers.
In reaching my decision, I need to consider whether Santanders actions resulted in a clear 
loss, financial or otherwise, to Mr W based upon the facts provided at the time. Mr W has 
explained his reasons why he didnt want Santander to immediately transfer the funds to the 
other party. Although I understand these reasons, they relate specifically to arrangements 
and agreements between Mr W and the other party. As such, they dont fall within the role of 
this service and would need to be addressed through other means. So, Im unable to 
consider these.
Santanders General Terms and Conditions for Current Accounts and Savings Accounts 
include the following:
Wed normally ask for permission from both account holders on a joint account to remove 
an account holder. There may be certain circumstances in the future, that we do this without 
permission from both customers. For example, where there is a marital dispute or other 
estranged relationship.
From this, its clear that there can be circumstances where the normal signing instructions on 
an account may be bypassed. The signings instructions would originally have been set some 
time ago, before the parties split. But now the court has ordered certain things to be done 
based on the situation as it now stands. Its not the role of this service to question that. So, 
the question is whether Santanders decision led to a different result from what the court 
intended and did this change Mr Ws position based upon the facts at the time.
There appears to be a conflict between the mandate and the court order, but the order is 
intended to deal with that. It says that the accounts and balances should be given to the 
other party. And Santander has taken steps to ensure thats whats happened as quickly as 
possible. Its not for this service to tell the bank to do otherwise or say its acted wrongly, 
where really - the root of that is the order itself, rather than the actions Santander took.
While Santander has put the signing instructions to one side, theyve actually complied with 
facilitating the order of the court in doing what they did. An order like this can and should be 
seen as something important and ultimately what Santander has done is in line with this. So, 
put simply, I cant fairly say that the bank has made an error here
I realise that Mr W will be disappointed, but Im satisfied that Santander has tried to facilitate 
the directions of the order. If Mr W remains unhappy with anything else, he has the option to 
address this by other means, including returning to the court that issued the order.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman