DRN-2101304
The complaint
Mrs G, represented by Mr G, says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1999 Mrs G bought PPI during a meeting, at the same time as she applied for a mortgage.
The policy gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. She paid a
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Mrs G that the PPI was optional, and she had to agree to take
it out. On her mortgage application form the options to select or decline PPI were set out 
with equal prominence, and Mrs G signed to confirm she wanted cover. She then signed a 
separate PPI application form answering a number of eligibility questions.
Mr G says Mrs G wasnt told she could take out cover from other providers, he says the 
wording that Halifax recommend that you consider our Mortgage Repayments Insurance 
Scheme evidences this. Also, the option to decline the cover didnt make clear you could 
consider alternative insurance. And Mrs Gs mortgage application report also shows that
Mrs G wasnt told she didnt have to obtain cover through Halifaxs agent. 
But I dont find this means the bank failed to meet its obligations. It didnt have to tell Mrs G 
she could get cover from another source, just that its cover was optional. And for the 
reasons set out above I think it did this, and Mrs G agreed to take it out. I dont think the 
wording Mr G points to implies that Mrs G had no choice, rather it says she should consider 
the PPI which I think supports the finding that she was given a choice. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs G, so it had to make sure it was right for her. Mr G 
says there is no evidence it did this, but this doesnt automatically mean the PPI was mis-
sold. What I need to decide is if Mrs G has lost out as a result of Halifaxs failure to 
adequately investigate her circumstances. I dont think she has as the PPI seems to have 
been right for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs G was 
entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 24 months for all accident and 
sickness claims. It also gave her up to 24 months redundancy cover. This would have 
allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment from her employer giving 
increased financial stability at an already difficult time. 
Mr G says Mrs G had savings worth around six months salary at the time, but the PPI would 
have allowed her to use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to keep 
them intact for her future needs. She also held shares but thats not suitable alternative 
protection  the value is not certain, and the PPI would have meant she didnt have to sell 
them at an inopportune time.
She also had life and critical illness insurance, but these cover different events and wouldnt 
help with monthly mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI.
 
Mrs G was borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on her home, in her sole 
name. Given how serious the effects of not keeping up with her mortgage repayments could 
have been, I think this PPI would have been useful for Mrs G - in addition to her existing 
means - if she was sick, had an accident or lost her job. And as she was paying monthly, 
she could cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it without incurring any further cost. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mrs G all the information she needed before she decided to
buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made clear, but it was set out on the PPI 
application form. And it was a reasonable price for the benefit it offered, and apparently 
affordable. And Mrs G doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions 
or limitations (such as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions or on 
certain types of employment contract). Overall, I dont think better information wouldve 
changed her decision.
It follows I dont think Mrs G has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman