DRN-3293286
The complaint
Mr M complains that he hasnt received a refund of the initial payment he made to 
Marshmallow Financial Services Ltd for his car insurance policy, even though he cancelled 
the policy in November 2020.
What happened
Mr M had car insurance arranged through Marshmallow. His policy was due for renewal in 
November 2020. After hed received his renewal documents, he obtained an online quote for 
the same policy through Marshmallow, which was substantially cheaper than his renewal 
quotation. Marshmallow agreed that Mr M could accept the cheaper quotation, but he 
accepted the original renewal by mistake.
Marshmallow were happy for Mr M to cancel this policy and accept the cheaper quotation. 
So Mr M cancelled the policy on 11 November 2020. Mr M had chosen to pay for his policy 
by monthly instalments and when he cancelled his first monthly payment was still being 
processed, so his refund was delayed until 23 November 2020. 
Marshmallow sent the refund to the payment card Mr M had used to make his initial payment 
when he first took out his policy with them in 2019. Mr M returned to the UK in 2019 after 
living overseas for many years. Hes told us that he used a card issued on his overseas bank 
account to make the initial payment on his policy, as he was still in the process of setting up 
a UK bank account. But all further payments had been made through his UK account, and 
his overseas account had been closed for ten months when Marshmallow issued his refund. 
Mr M was told he should receive his refund within five to ten days and contacted 
Marshmallow when he hadnt. He was told that the payment had been sent to his overseas 
account, as this was the only account they had details of, and they couldnt issue a further 
payment to him.
Mr M complained to Marshmallow who didnt uphold his complaint. They said issuing a 
refund to the original payment card was generally the only way to guarantee the refund 
reached the person who made the payment and protects them against money-laundering 
and fraud risks. They said they were sorry that Mr M no longer used the account the refund 
was made to and might not be able to access it, but they were unable to help him further as 
their records showed the refund had been successfully processed.
Marshmallow also said that theyd suggested Mr M contact his overseas bank to trace the 
refund. And they say that they could look to charge the refund back to his card, and then 
refund it to one of his other accounts. He was asked to let them know if he thought this was 
possible.
Mr M was unhappy with Marshmallows response and complained to our service. He told our 
investigator hed contacted his overseas bank and theyd said that a closed account couldnt 
receive any payments. And their process is that any payments received for an account which 
no longer exists reverse automatically within two to three days of the payment being made.   
Our investigator considered the case and didnt think Marshmallow had treated Mr M fairly. 
He said that although Marshmallow had said they hadnt received a refund of the payment 
sent to Mr Ms overseas bank, he didnt think this was correct. He said that from the records 
Marshmallow had sent us, their payment providers had attempted to charge a payment to 
his old overseas account in December 2020. This payment had failed as they said the card 
number was wrong.
While our investigator said this payment shouldnt have been attempted, he thought this 
might show that the initial refund had been sent to the wrong card. Hed tried to speak to 
Marshmallow about this but hadnt been able to. And the records showed a refund to Mr M in 
November 2019, but not one on 23 November 2020. 
Our investigator didnt think that Marshmallow asking their payment providers to attempt to 
charge Mr Ms old account again was a reasonable way to try and resolve things. Mr M had 
been left out of pocket and he felt Marshmallow should issue the refund again to an active 
account. And they should pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience of having to 
chase the matter.
Marshmallow responded to our investigators view providing some screenshots from their 
payment provider. They said these showed that the refund sent to Mr Ms overseas bank 
hadnt been returned to them. To resolve matters they agreed to pay the agreed premium 
refund of £41.93 to Mr M. But they didnt agree to pay the £100 our investigator had 
recommended for the distress and inconvenience Mr M had suffered. As they said theyd 
sent the refund to the default card registered on Mr Ms account and the payment hadnt 
been returned to them.
Our investigator considered what Marshmallow said but didnt change his opinion. He said 
there might well be an error in their payment providers recording of the refund, as the failed 
charge on 14 December 2020 was the same amount as theyd said was refunded in two 
transactions on 23 November 2020. So he felt on balance the refund had been returned to 
Marshmallow and Mr M hadnt received it. And as Mr M had needed to contact his overseas 
bank and chase Marshmallow, our investigator maintained that £100 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience was appropriate. 
Marshmallow offered to refund the payment to Mr M again if it was returned to them, as they 
maintained that the payment was still with Mr Ms overseas bank. Mr M didnt accept this 
offer, as he said he was still waiting for a first refund of his payment and had no faith that 
Marshmallow would send him a second payment. Marshmallow then offered to send him a 
£25 voucher as a gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience hed suffered. Mr M also 
declined this offer.
The case has now come to be for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M made a mistake in November 2020 when he accepted the wrong quotation for his car 
insurance renewal from Marshmallow. He realised this quickly and contacted Marshmallow 
who agreed to refund his initial payment, less a small amount for the period his car had been 
on cover. The sum to be refunded was £41.93.
Marshmallow sent the refund to the overseas account Mr M had used to make his initial 
payment for his policy in 2019, before hed set up a UK bank account. Marshmallow say that they did this because this was the only bank account they had details of, but Im not 
persuaded that this is correct. I say this because Mr M has told us that having made the 
initial payment from his overseas account, all further payments were made from a UK bank 
account. And when he cancelled his policy Marshmallow said his first monthly payment was 
being processed, so thered be a short delay in the refund being made. This payment wasnt 
being processed from his closed overseas account, so its difficult to see why the refund 
wasnt made to the account the payment had been made from.
While Marshmallow have now agreed to issue a refund of £41.93 to Mr M, they still insist 
that the payment sent to his overseas account hasnt been returned. This is despite his 
overseas bank saying that as his account had been closed, the payment couldnt have been 
processed and would have been returned within two or three days. And Marshmallows 
payment providers receiving a refund of this amount, plus a further small payment, that could 
have been due to currency conversion, on 23 November 2020.
On balance Im persuaded that Mr Ms overseas bank returned the refund payment in 
November 2020, as his account had been closed. So I think its right that Marshmallow 
should refund this sum to Mr M, as theyve agreed to do. But I also think Mr M is entitled to 
interest on his money. So I require Marshmallow to pay him simple interest at 8% on the 
sum of £41.93 from 23 November 2020 until the date payment is made to him.
And I think Mr M has received poor customer service from Marshmallow while trying to 
resolve this matter. Hes had to chase them and contact his overseas bank. They havent 
provided an acceptable explanation of why they sent the refund to an account he wasnt 
making payments from relating to his policy. Theyve continued to say they didnt receive a 
refund when the evidence suggests they did. And I think theyve unnecessarily prolonged the 
resolution of this matter. So I require them to pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hes experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Marshmallow Financial Services 
Ltd. And to put things right I require them to do the following: -
Pay Mr M £41.93 in respect of the refund of his premium.
Pay Mr M interest on this amount at 8% simple from 23 November 2020 until 
payment is made.
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience his suffered as a 
result of the poor customer service hes received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman