DRN-3179286
The complaint
Mr S complains that Covea Insurance plc refused to provide cover for him when he made a 
claim on his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has his own business (P). For ease I will refer to him as Mr S throughout the decision. 
He carried out some repairs to the roof of a building and after he left, the building suffered 
extensive damage due to a fire which started in the area where he had been working. He 
notified Covea of a potential claim on his policy due to correspondence he received alleging 
he was responsible for the fire.
Covea considered the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to make some enquiries, as well 
as obtaining a forensic report. It then told Mr S cover would not be provided. Covea said he 
was in breach of conditions in his policy that required him to carry out a thorough 
examination of the area, including on the other side of any wall or partition; and move any 
combustible material away or protect it with shields. Covea said Mr S hadnt carried out a 
thorough examination or removed combustible materials or used heat shields. 
Mr S challenged Coveas decision. He said he had carried out all reasonable checks, and 
had lifted some tiles and used a heat shield. He also said the statement he had allegedly 
signed following a meeting with the loss adjuster was fabricated. 
In response, Covea said it had based its decision on the information Mr S had given to the 
loss adjuster, the loss adjuster had confirmed that statement was accurate, and there was 
no evidence it had been fabricated. Covea explained to Mr S that the loss adjuster had 
provided a written statement  of his own confirming the circumstances. It said Mr S had 
changed his version of events but it didnt accept what he was now saying and there was no 
reason to change its decision.
When Mr S brought the complaint to this service our investigator did not think it should be 
upheld. He said it was reasonable for Covea to rely on the loss adjusters evidence and 
there was no reason to doubt the information in the statement Mr S had signed  there was 
nothing to show it had been fabricated. The investigator said the statement confirmed that 
Mr S hadnt carried out an inspection and it was reasonable for Covea to conclude that he 
hadnt complied with the policy conditions.  
Mr S disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He has made a number of 
comments. I wont set them all out in full but the key points include:
Although the loss adjuster visited him and took notes of their conversation, he didnt 
sign anything at that meeting.
The person who carried out the work with him was also present at the meeting and 
can confirm nothing was signed, but that person hasnt been contacted by anybody.
The loss adjuster said he would send a copy of his notes by email but that didnt 
happen.
The statement is not accurate and has been fabricated  the signature is not his.
Covea had previously said it didnt know how his witness statement had been sent to 
him. Given how important this document is, the ombudsman needs to scrutinise 
carefully the circumstances in which it came into existence.
They took all reasonable measures to investigate the area before carrying out the 
works and to comply with the policy conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for claims of this nature. But as with most insurance policies, there 
are conditions and exclusions in the policy terms that apply. In this case, Covea has relied 
on the following policy condition that says:
It is a condition precedent to Our liability that the following precautions will be complied with 
 whenever work is undertaken involving the use of electric oxy-acetylene or other 
welding or flame cutting equipment blow lamps blow torches hot air guns tar bitumen or 
asphalt heaters or any other work involving the use or application of heat or the use of angle 
grinders
a) a thorough examination of the immediate vicinity of the work including the area on 
the other side of any wall door partition roof or other horizontal structure shall be 
made to ensure that no combustible materials (including materials to be worked upon 
or which have been worked upon and to the greatest extent practical any materials in 
the course of being worked upon) are in danger of ignition by direct or conducted 
heat
b) any combustible material (including materials to be worked upon or which have been 
worked upon and to the greatest extent practical any materials in the course of being 
worked upon) shall be removed to a distance of not less than 10 metres from the 
point of work and any combustible materials (including materials to be worked upon 
or which have been worked upon and to the greatest extent practical any materials in 
the course of being worked upon) which cannot be moved to be covered and fully 
protected by overlapping sheets of non-combustible material or equivalent protection
Covea says Mr S is in breach of these conditions because when carrying out the work he 
didnt carry out a thorough examination of the area, move combustible materials away or use 
heat shields.
This condition is a condition precedent to liability. That means the insurer considers it so 
fundamental to the operation of the policy that if it isnt complied with there is no cover. 
Covea says thats due to the high risk involved with this type of activity. It will only agree to 
provide indemnity where the policyholder has complied with these conditions, to reduce the 
risk as much as possible. I think thats reasonable  carrying out work with heat in areas 
where there is combustible material is by its nature risky. And if theres a fire, the potential 
damage that may be caused is substantial. 
Covea says Mr S did not comply with this condition. So Ive considered what evidence was 
relied on and whether it was fair to reach this conclusion.
Covea has relied on Mr Ss own statement. This was prepared by the loss adjuster at his 
meeting with Mr S. I appreciate Mr S doesnt accept that this statement is accurate. He says 
he didnt sign anything at the meeting with the loss adjuster and the document must be 
fabricated. Ive examined the circumstances surrounding that statement and considered his 
comments carefully but dont find them persuasive. When Mr S challenged the statement, saying he had carried out reasonable checks, lifted 
some tiles and used a heat shield, Covea sought further clarification from the loss adjuster. 
He has signed a statement, which includes a statement of truth, confirming that: 
at no time did Mr S make any reference to lifting the tiles or using a heat shield, 
either in their email correspondence or during the meeting;
the signed statement from the insured is an accurate record of the information 
provided at the meeting; and 
in light of his further comments it would seem Mr S subsequently changed his 
evidence.
The loss adjuster has no reason to lie and nothing to be gained from doing so. Hes an 
experienced person who has been carrying out this type of investigation for many years. 
Taking all of this into account I think it was reasonable for Covea to rely on his evidence. 
Covea also obtained a forensic report. The expert who compiled that report also says Mr S 
didnt carry out an inspection of the roof space and  based on what Mr S told him  it 
appears no heat shields were used. Again, I see no reason for Covea not to rely on these 
comments from someone independent who has nothing to be gained from fabricating 
evidence.
Mr S has made a number of points about the circumstances of his meeting with the loss 
adjuster. He says he did make all reasonable attempts to check the area, and he wasnt 
asked about the use of heat shields, which he always uses in work involving heat in these 
circumstances. And he has asked why the person who did the work with him hasnt been 
contacted directly. Even if their view hasnt been sought I wouldnt expect Covea to give 
more weight to their comments, since they would not be an impartial observer. 
Mr S also says the signature on the statement isnt his. If it was signed electronically it 
wouldnt necessarily appear exactly the same as a handwritten signature. In any event, Im 
not a handwriting expert and Ive looked at all the other evidence to decide whether his 
comments are persuasive. 
Where I have two different versions of events, I need to consider all the evidence and decide 
what weight should be given to the different pieces of evidence. 
On the one hand, I have detailed comments from Mr S. On the other hand there is the 
signed statement, supported by the loss adjusters statement. And as Ive explained, Covea 
hasnt relied on that statement alone; there are comments in the forensic statement that are 
consistent with it. Given that there are two different sources of independent evidence that 
are consistent and corroborate each other, Im not persuaded by Mr S comments.
Mr S says the loss adjuster wasnt independent and it was in both his and Covea's interest to 
find a way that Covea might decline cover. The loss adjuster wasnt employed by Covea and 
was independent of them. I dont think its likely he would risk his professional position by 
carrying out fraudulent actions to help Covea.
I appreciate the importance of the claim for Mr S and the possible implications for him if 
cover is not provided. He asked that we scrutinise carefully the circumstances in which his 
statement came into existence. I have done that and consider on balance, it was reasonable 
for Covea to reach the conclusion that it did, for the reasons set out above. And on that basis 
Im satisfied Coveas decision was in line with the policy terms and was fair.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman