DRN-4178820
The complaint
Miss R complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) treated her in relation to
debts she held with it.
What happened
Miss R had loans and an overdraft with BoS. Miss R experienced employment issues and ill 
health in 2004/2005 which impacted her ability to manage her debts. She complains, 
broadly, about the way she was treated by BoS at the time, and over the following years. 
Miss R also has concerns about how some payment protection insurance, critical illness
cover and income replacement cover was sold/handled. 
I issued a jurisdiction decision where I set out what our service could and couldnt consider. I 
summarised this in the following bullet points:
- Miss R is dissatisfied with BoS in relation to various products. Only the loans and 
overdraft will be considered as part of this complaint; 
- Matters relating to the loans and overdraft pre-2011 have been brought too late, and 
so our service doesnt have the power to consider them; and
- Our service does have the power to consider matters relating to the 2015/2016 
account defaults, related balances and credit file implications, along with BoS debt 
recovery activity during this period.
Our investigator thought about what our service could consider and didnt recommend BoS 
do anything more to resolve this complaint. He said:
Miss Rs loans and current account were closed to further use in or before 2008.
However, they werent defaulted as they should have been. This meant over the 
following years the balances increased as interest continued to be applied, and 
Miss Rs credit file was likely impacted for longer than it should have been. BoS let 
Miss R down here.
As I understand it, when BoS became aware of its oversight in 2015/2016 it, in effect,
applied and backdated defaults to the accounts, meaning they stopped being 
reported to Miss Rs credit file. Im satisfied this placed Miss Rs credit file in the 
position it would have been in, had it not been for BoS oversight.
BoS also wrote off the remaining balances. This amounted, based on 2008 figures, to 
in excess of £20,000. Given these balances were legitimately owed to BoS, I find this 
a positive action. And Im satisfied this is enough to fairly compensate Miss R for any 
distress and inconvenience she was caused by BoS oversight.
Miss R has concerns with how BoS (and its agents) sought recovery from her before 
the balances were written off. I dont have much information about this activity, but 
from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded it was unusual, or to a degree I find could 
reasonably be considered excessive. A lender can take steps to recover a debt, and 
thats what BoS did.
I understand Miss Rs strength of feeling. And I sympathise with the difficulties shes 
faced in general over the years. However, I must approach this matter objectively. 
Having completed my independent review of the parts of this complaint our service 
has the power to consider, I dont recommend BoS need to anything more.
Miss R didnt accept the investigators recommendation. She said, broadly, that she wasnt 
sure the debts had been written off and said that BoS continued recovery activity after the 
alleged write-offs. She provided some evidence she considers supports her position, notably 
a letter from 2016 and two call recordings from 2017. As an agreement couldnt be reached 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I accept Miss R is seeking further information which she may want to provide, Im 
satisfied I have enough relevant information - which has almost all been provided by Miss R 
- to make a fair and reasonable decision, and I see no compelling reason to delay matters.
Like the investigator (and is not materially disputed by Miss R or BoS) Im satisfied Miss Rs 
accounts should have defaulted in or before 2008. By not doing this, the debts increased, 
and Miss Rs credit file was adversely impacted for longer than it should have been. I am, 
however, satisfied this was addressed in 2015. I say this because BoS said it had been in 
July 2016 when it responded to a Data Subject Access Request query from Miss R. And 
Miss R has provided emails from 2015 from a credit reference agency confirming the same. 
BoS July 2016 letter also confirmed the debts had been written off in 2014. This would 
include the outstanding balances at the time the accounts should have defaulted, and any 
interest/charges applied from then onwards. Miss R isnt sure about this and says BoS 
continued to seek repayment of the debts. Shes provided a letter from BoS from 
August 2016, and two call recordings she says are from 2017.
The August 2016 letter says what an outstanding balance of one of the accounts is. It 
appears to provide this information in response to a balance enquiry from Miss R. I therefore 
dont consider it to be a form of debt recovery activity. 
 
The longer of the two call recordings is between Miss R and BoS data team. There is no 
mention BoS is actively seeking recovery of the debts and the agent makes it clear she cant 
comment much because she deals with data queries, not account queries. The agent says 
shell raise Miss Rs concerns about what write-off means (and other things) and accepts it 
can have different meanings. The shorter of the two calls, which appears to be a follow up 
call, doesnt contain any relevant information other than Miss R will be sent a letter. 
There was a letter from BoS to Miss R in February 2017 - provided by Miss R as part of her 
submissions - which appears to have been in response to the two calls. It said, alongside a 
lot of other things, a write-off doesnt necessarily mean someone wont be asked to repay a 
debt in the future. But it also said a Close Account letter was issued in June 2015 to confirm 
Miss Rs facilities had been closed with zero balances, but that the letter was returned 
marked as addressee gone away. 
I have seen no compelling evidence of BoS actively seeking recovery of the debts from Miss R from around 2014 onwards. It follows Im satisfied BoS did indeed write off the debts, 
in the sense Miss R will not be asked (and hasnt been asked for quite some time) to repay 
them.
Miss R is also concerned with BoS recovery activity prior to the write-offs. While I have seen 
there were letters informing her of the outstanding debts and the need to take action, I 
havent seen anything to persuade me this activity was unusual, or excessive. 
Miss R, in response to the investigators recommendation (and in previous testimony), has 
referred to a visit from two BoS henchmen. She says they interrogated her for four hours 
and may have dropped listening devices to spy on her. I would consider this to be unusual 
and excessive recovery activity. However, I have been presented with no compelling 
evidence to support this happened.
Overall, I find BoS did make mistakes, namely by not defaulting the accounts properly when 
it should have. Compensation would be appropriate for that, given the likely impact it had on 
Miss R, especially in relation to her credit file. However, as Im satisfied BoS is not asking 
(and hasnt asked for quite some time) for Miss R to repay her debts, I find she has benefited 
from that, and its a significant amount of money. I dont find I can fairly and reasonably ask 
BoS to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
I dont require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman