DRN-3576646
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Widows Limited cancelled his two life assurance policies after 
his third party broker failed to pass over an accurate account of his medical disclosures. He 
also says that Scottish Widows would not inform him of the status of his policies or the 
conversations had with the broker, in accordance with data protection legislation.  
To resolve his complaint, Mr M wants Scottish Widows to reinstate his policies and provide 
him cover for the conditions that he disclosed to the broker. Failing that, he believes he 
should be compensated by £200,000 (the sum assured of one of the policies).  
What happened
Mr M approached the broker about taking out term assurance policies, for both life and 
critical illness cover. The broker assisted Mr M on a non-advised basis conducting searches 
across insurers, including Scottish Widows. 
On 25 February 2021, Mr M spoke with an adviser from the broker business who obtained 
quotes for the two policies with Scottish Widows. One policy sought was for £200,000 of life 
cover over a 53-year term and the other £200,000 of critical illness and life cover for a 43-
year term. 
In those applications, Mr M told the adviser that he suffered from of a type of immune system 
disorder, a type of connective tissue disorder and a type of mental health condition.
On 1 March 2021, Mr M was called by the broker. It was confirmed that the policies had 
been accepted by Scottish Widows without the need for a GP report at the sum assured and 
terms requested. The policies had premiums of £20.89 and £74.52 respectively. The policies 
went on risk on 15 March 2021.
In the interim, on 10 March 2021, Mr M contacted the broker. He had discovered on receipt 
of Scottish Widows paperwork of 3 March 2021 that only one of the three medical issues he 
raised had been confirmed in the applications; his two disorders had not been disclosed. The 
adviser said that Scottish Widows would have been made aware, but Mr M asked for 
evidence that he was covered on that basis because this conflicted with the documentation.  
Mr M then pursued a complaint to the broker. It told him on 30 April 2021 that the two 
missing medical conditions had not been disclosed within or after the policy application(s) to 
Scottish Widows as promised. 
Scottish Widows liaised with the broker in respect of underwriting the conditions 
retrospectively. A GP report (subject to Mr Ms approval in terms of access to his medical 
records) was requested by Scottish Widows on 11 May 2021. In the interim, the policies 
remained in force but access to the relevant records needed to be provided within 90 days.
In July 2021, Mr M brought his complaint about the broker to this service. He said he worked 
in the legal profession and he understood the implications of non-disclosure for insurance 
policies. It was for this reason that he took great lengths to ensure the broker recorded and 
understood his medical conditions. 
Mr M explained that he now suffers with long-COVID as a consequence of a severe reaction 
to a vaccination in April 2021. He said that the brokers actions meant that he cannot make 
any critical illness claim about that. Nor could he consider claims for degenerative conditions 
should he have had children in the future, and this situation has affected that choice. 
In the meantime, Mr M returned the access to medical records information to Scottish 
Widows on 10 August 2021. The subsequent GP report was supplied to Scottish Widows in 
October 2021. 
In November 2021, Scottish Widows wrote to Mr M cancelling the policies. If it had received 
accurate disclosure of his conditions, it would not have been able to offer him any insurance.
Mr M says he did not receive this letter. He complained about the payment and the lack of 
information from Scottish Widows. He also made a subject access request in December 
2021, as he had done with the broker. However, in a final response of December 2021 
Scottish Widows told Mr M it was rejecting the complaint.  
Scottish Widows explained that the two refunds he had received were returns of premiums. 
It had done this because it had properly underwritten Mr Ms medical circumstances on 
receipt of his medical records. And it could never have offered him any insurance at all.  
It also set out that:
though it provided the policies, the broker applied for them with Mr Ms consent;
it is not party to the discussions held between the broker and Mr M  it merely acted 
on the brokers instructions;
the broker had called Scottish Widows before the applications were submitted and 
was told how he had to email any additional medical information to Scottish Widows 
as well as omitting Mr Ms bank details to ensure the policies did not start without 
correct underwriting;
despite this, the broker did not send the medical information;
the policies were put into force on 1 March 2021 based on the original applications;
to ensure the policies were underwritten correctly it sent Mr M an application 
summary for each of his policies on 3 March 2021;
it was explained in this letter that Mr M must let Scottish Widows know if any of the 
information on the applications had changed, was incorrect or incomplete as failure 
to do so could invalidate the policies;
the policies continued until the broker provided Scottish Widows with Mr Ms 
additional medical history at the end of April 2021;
this prompted the request for a GP report and access to medical records;
numerous reminders were issued to Mr M between May and August 2021;
once he approved the access, prompt medical evidence was sought;
it had 90 days to reply to the subject access request so this would be responded to in 
due course. 
Mr M pursued this complaint to our service as well. He explained that he was now in a 
position where he had no appropriate term assurance cover. He also said that having 
received the subject access response, it was quite apparent to him that both parties put the 
business of securing an insurance referral ahead of his interests as the policyholder.  
He explained that the broker had told the Scottish Widows it could not speak to him and 
Scottish Widows hadnt told him what the broker had said. His view on the situation was that both parties kept everything hushed up and colluded with one another. 
The same investigator from this service that looked at the broker complaint considered this 
complaint, but she did not think it should succeed. She said Scottish Widows processed the 
applications on the information it had been given  and the error in passing on the right 
details rested with the broker. That business had agreed and accepted it made that mistake.
She explained that when Scottish Widows realised it wouldnt be able to offer Mr M any 
cover, it cancelled the policies and refunded all the premiums he had paid which was the 
right thing to do. Though Mr M said he hadnt received the letter cancelling the policies (and 
instead noted the refund of premiums with his bank), the letter was correctly addressed. 
Finally, she noted that in her view Scottish Widows hadnt done anything wrong by 
communicating about the disclosures with the broker. Mr M had consented to the broker 
liaising with Scottish Widows to arrange the policies and therefore it hadnt done anything 
wrong in responding to the further information requests from the broker.  
Mr M said he disagreed and wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. This was 
because he wasnt told that the policies were being cancelled and only noticed the refunds in 
his bank account. He also said Scottish Widows admitted it was asked not to speak with him 
but with the broker instead; so he remains of the view that Scottish Widows has colluded 
with the broker. He also continued to believe that he should be given compensation. 
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view on the complaint. She reiterated that 
she did not believe that collusion had taken place. Nor did she think that Scottish Widows 
had failed to write to Mr M about the policies being voided as she had seen the letter that 
was issued on 1 November 2021 to his correct postal address. Our investigator said she still 
believed it had fairly cancelled the policies on receipt of Mr Ms accurate medical history.  
Scottish Widows confirmed it had nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr M feels about this complaint and the separate complaint about 
the broker. And I was sorry to learn he has been unwell following a coronavirus vaccination. 
However, this complaint cannot succeed. That is because I believe Scottish Widows has 
acted fairly in voiding the policy. Ill explain my reasons for reaching this conclusion below.  
It is important for me to set out that this complaint rests against Scottish Widows as the 
insurer that received Mr Ms insurance applications. It is separate and independent from the 
broker which assisted him in the setting up of the policies. Mr M has pursued a distinct 
complaint about the broker so I will not be making specific findings about that business here. 
However, the background to the complaints and some of the content in my findings will be 
similar as they arise from the same set of adjoined circumstances.  
I do not accept the suggestion that there has been collusion or complicity between Scottish 
Widows and the broker. I realise Mr Ms opinion differs on that, but I have seen no clear 
evidence which suggests that the two businesses would have arranged to cover Mr M 
without correct medical disclosures. If Mr M has outstanding concerns about subject access 
and data protection, that is a matter for the Information Commissioners Office.     Scottish Widows sent Mr M a copy of his application answers as a means of checking to 
ensure accurate disclosures. That system would negate any grounds for a cover up on the 
basis Mr M has suggested, since the applicant could review the answers for accuracy, just 
as Mr M did. He was required to do this as he is in the informed position to convey accurate 
medical knowledge to the insurer, which in this case was undertaken via a broker. 
This step is in place as a failsafe  because as Mr M is aware, insurers have the ability to 
assess whether misrepresentations on insurance policies occurred from the outset in 
accordance with relevant insurance law on consumer disclosures and representations. In 
this case, Scottish Widows was pointed to errors in the application once Mr M checked his 
policies and told the broker about the omissions  who in turn notified Scottish Widows. 
The relevant law allows for an agent of a consumer to pass on information which may or 
may not amount to a misrepresentation. In other words, the broker in this case was acting for 
Mr M, with his consent. The law then goes on confirm what a qualifying misrepresentation 
means. That is where an insurer has a remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation 
made by the consumer (or their agent) before an insurance contract was entered into only if 
a consumer (or in this case, the broker) made a misrepresentation as defined by law and the 
insurer shows that without the misrepresentation it would not have entered into the contract 
at all, or would have done so only on different terms.
That applies here. Since disclosure of the missing conditions was something which affected 
the terms Scottish Widows could offer and it was not passed on by the broker before the 
contract began, Scottish Widows was allowed to retrospectively underwrite the policies, even 
though they had begun. And following relevant Association of British Insurers guidance on 
misrepresentation, it returned Mr Ms policy premiums to him upon voiding the policies.  
It follows that I cannot direct Scottish Widows to reinstate these policies, as they never 
should have begun. I am not upholding this complaint, but even if I was, the right redress is 
not to perpetuate the brokers mistake and enforce insurance terms for two policies onto 
Scottish Widows where it would not have accepted Mr Ms policy applications. 
This service looks to correct mistakes where businesses have done something wrong by 
putting consumers in the position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt happened. In this 
case, Scottish Widows would have sought the GP report in March 2021 with Mr Ms consent 
and refused the applications. It did this several months late  but that is not the fault of 
Scottish Widows. It didnt know anything was missing. The delay is because of the mistakes 
made by the broker, and that business has accepted responsibility for those errors.  
Though Mr M said he didnt receive Scottish Widows letter telling him the policies had been 
voided, I believe it was likely sent to him, as he had received all previous correspondence to 
the same address. The vast majority of correctly addressed post is properly received. And, 
Mr M was aware that Scottish Widows was actively seeking to underwrite the conditions 
disclosed because it had required him to agree to accessing his medical records. Even 
though the letter did not arrive, it does not alter Scottish Widows decision or the outcome of 
this complaint. Nor do I think any compensation ought to be awarded for postal failings here.
I am unclear why Mr M would seek compensation of one of the policies sums assured. But 
again, these policies would not have been accepted from the outset had Scottish Widows 
had correct policy information. That isnt Mr Ms fault; but it isnt Scottish Widows fault either. 
Payment of a policys sum assured has no relevance to the inactions of the broker business. 
A claim value may be payable for a policyholder with a policy that is in force with an insurer, 
where a valid critical illness definition has been met in full. I have seen no evidence of a 
claim which could have been pursued even if the critical illness policy could have been accepted. And for the reasons stated, that could never have been the case as Scottish 
Widows is not able to offer Mr M terms because of his specific medical disclosures.  
My final decision
I realise this decision will be disappointing for Mr M. But I cannot uphold this complaint or 
make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman