DRN-3953941
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about their home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
because it declined their claim made for storm damage.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr and Mrs C noticed their roof looked out of shape (later inspections 
confirmed that rather being in line with the gable ends of the house, the front pitch was 
concave at one end and convex at the other, with the rear pitch suffering similarly but in the 
opposite direction). They contacted builders who said the roof had been damaged by storm 
and Mr and Mrs C recalled a named storm occurring in February 2022. Following receipt of a 
repair quote, in May 2022, Mr and Mrs C contacted UKI to make a claim. 
UKI appointed a building company to assess the roof. UKI felt the resultant report was 
inconclusive so appointed a loss adjuster. The loss adjuster felt the roof had moved over 
time and not as a result of storm. He also noted that an exposed piece of roofing material, 
usually covered when the roof is in its correct position, was discoloured and mossy. He felt 
this indicated it had been exposed for quite some time, not just since February 2022. The 
claim was declined, in doing so UKI referred to exclusions in the policy for gradually 
operating cause and poor workmanship. Mr and Mrs C were unhappy and complained.
Mr and Mrs C noted that their builder had been satisfied that storm had caused the damage 
 but also that the first assessor UKI had sent, had told them he felt the damage had been 
caused by storm. They said the wording of the exclusion for gradually operating cause which 
UKI was relying on, was different in the policy they had. Regarding poor workmanship, they 
said it was far from clear that the roof wasnt constructed to standards relevant at the time 
the house was built. Mr and Mrs C said that even if their roof had suffered damage over time 
 which they didnt believe was the case  their policy didnt say damage was only covered if 
it happened during one event. They said if the roof had been out of shape before 
February 2022, theyd have noticed. Adding that their homebuyers survey from 1993 didnt 
identify any issue with the roof. When UKI wouldnt review its position Mr and Mrs C 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.    
Our Investigator noted Mr and Mrs Cs concerns about policy wording. But felt UKI had 
shown that it was most likely the roof had not been damaged by storm. So he didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy. They said it was unfair to expect them to have noticed tiny 
movement of the roof  and once the shape of the roof was noticed they acted to rectify it. 
Their policy doesnt require them to have the loft regularly inspected by a professional. 
Mr and Mrs C noted that UKIs expert, when commenting on the construction of their roof, 
hadnt found building regulations applicable at the time the house was built. They said they 
felt it was relevant that the first assessor had thought storm was the cause. Mr and Mrs C 
asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it is going to take a lot to fix Mr and Mrs Cs roof, in terms of money and work. I can 
also see that they clearly take a pride in their home. I understand how important this is to 
them and the worry the decline has caused. However, I can only require UKI to accept the 
claim if I feel its decision to decline it was unfair and unreasonable. In determining that 
I have to bear in mind what the policy offers cover for  damage caused by certain incidents. 
For example, storm  so only if the damage is found to have been caused by one of the 
incidents listed, would it fall for cover under the policy. If something else caused the damage, 
even if Mr and Mrs C werent aware it was going on, UKI wouldnt be liable for that. 
I know Mr and Mrs C have some concerns about the policy wording which applies to their 
claim. They were sent a policy book in 2017 and say theyve seen nothing since to advise of 
any changes to that wording. But UKI has satisfied me that some wording changed shortly 
after the book which Mr and Mrs C have was issued. UKI created a leaflet explaining the 
changes and sent one with each renewal in 2018. Im satisfied the changes were 
communicated to Mr and Mrs C. 
Theres no doubt that there was a storm, in the vicinity of Mr and Mrs Cs home, in 
February 2022. That storm affected large parts of the country  but the windspeeds varied 
depending upon location. In the area of Mr and Mrs Cs home, windspeeds of around 
60 miles an hour were recorded. Typically wind of that velocity does not cause structural 
damage like that in question here  movement of the whole roof structure. In saying that Im 
also mindful that the two pitches of the roof seem to have moved in opposite directions  and 
that doesnt seem typical of damage caused in one storm. But Ive also looked at what the 
experts, commenting on this damage, feel most likely caused it.
Mr and Mrs C presented details from two builders. Builder S wrote a short report for 
Mr and Mrs C. He said that the roof had obviously been moved by some extreme wind 
pressure. His view in this respect wasnt supported any further. Builder A produced the 
quote which Mr and Mrs C submitted to UKI. The quote stated the roofs integrity had been 
damaged by high winds and storms. S and A noted that extra bracing would need to be 
implemented during the repair in order to future proof the property. 
I know Mr and Mrs C think its important that the assessor UKI sent first also told them the 
damage was caused by a storm. I cant know what was said in that conversation. But, 
following receipt of that assessors written report, UKI felt his findings were inconclusive and 
decided to seek a second opinion (from the loss adjuster). Having seen the assessors report 
 it does say its unclear how the roof has moved. UKI was entitled to seek another opinion 
and Ive considered the loss adjusters findings in detail below. But I note the assessor, like 
the loss adjuster, did record that the roof and gable walls arent tied together. 
UKIs loss adjuster, noting that both pitches of the roof had moved in a similar way but in 
opposite directions, felt a lack of bracing in the roof, along with the trusses not being tied into 
the walls of the home, had allowed the trusses to shift over time in line with thermal 
movement of the property. In terms of this having been an on-going issue the loss adjuster 
referred to the exposed piece of roofing material. He felt its condition meant it was unlikely to 
have only been recently uncovered by the roof moving during the February storm. 
Ive seen photos of this  and it does look quite degraded. UKI asked A to provide comment 
about this exposed piece of material. Also whether the lack of braces and ties had likely had 
an impact. A said he had not seen the exposed material so couldnt comment. But, in terms of when the damage had likely been caused, A said the storm must have caused it as it was 
evident only after the storm, and if it had been present before the storm it would have been 
noticed then. Regarding the braces and ties, he said hed seen roofs with more and less 
bracing that had not suffered this type of damage. I dont find As evidence in either of these 
respects persuasive. His conclusion about when damage likely occurred seems based on 
subjective detail (about what is/isnt and was/wasnt noticeable). And whilst I note what he 
says he has seen elsewhere, he doesnt seem to have considered if the lack of bracing and 
ties, in this specific situation, has played a role in the damage. As I noted above, S didnt 
explain how or why he had reached his view that this damage was caused by wind pressure. 
Overall I find Im more persuaded by the totality of the loss adjusters findings. 
The loss adjuster has supported his view that this damage has occurred overtime with the 
explanation and photo about the exposed material. Hes also explained that not enough 
bracing, or any tying in, has allowed the trusses and the roof to move. And Im aware that 
properties do move, minimally, constantly  its the general nature of the materials they are 
made from. It makes sense to me that if parts of a building are not properly tied together, 
then theres the potential for one part, in this case the roof, to move away from or out of line 
with the rest of the building. Also that this is a process which takes time. It isnt something 
which happens suddenly. Which could well be why the home-buying surveyor in 1993 didnt 
notice any fault with the trusses  commenting only in his report that theyd been installed 
in-line with the intended design. It would also, I think, potentially be more likely to allow for 
the two pitches of the roof to move separately in opposite directions. It seems unlikely to me 
that during one storm, one roof pitch could be moved one way, with the other being 
simultaneously shifted in the other direction. Especially given theres no damaged tiles and 
seemingly no movement of the roofs ridgeline. 
Overall this isnt damage Id typically expect to see following a storm and UKI has satisfied 
me that its most likely the damage was not caused by storm. In a situation like this I might 
have expected UKI to give an opinion about whether or not Mr and Mrs C could claim for 
accidental damage on the policy (if they have that cover). But a valid claim in that respect 
would involve damage which has occurred suddenly and Im satisfied that UKI has shown 
that Mr and Mrs Cs roof moved gradually over time. 
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr and Mrs C, Im satisfied that 
UKIs decline of their claim was fair and reasonable. As such, Im not going to require it to 
accept or settle the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman