DRN-4193812
The complaint
Miss T says Highway Insurance Company Limited delayed excessively in dealing with a 
claim she made on her motorhome insurance policy and provided poor service overall. 
What happened
Initially, I was minded to require Highway to pay Miss T £750 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I thought there was excessive delay in moving the claim on and in repairing 
her van. I thought Miss T had faced much loss of enjoyment from using the van for breaks 
and holidays - and that there was evidence from the start of very poor service on Highways 
part, which continued for many months. I didnt think it should have to pay Miss T for the loss 
of income from renting out her van, as there was no evidence of that loss. And I said there 
was nothing to show that shed had to pay as much as £2,000 to rent a van for a holiday. My 
understanding was that her own van (in good repair) could have been rented for much less.
Miss T said shed paid £1,000 a week for a much inferior van, as it was the cheapest she 
could find at short notice in peak season. I wasnt sure initially that Miss T had done all she 
could to mitigate her losses. But later she provided evidence that shed hired only a two-
berth van (when her own van was six-berth, and shed planned for four people to go on the 
holiday). Miss T also showed that the hired van wasnt equipped to the high standard of her 
own van. In particular it didnt have the facilities required for wild camping, so Miss T had to 
stay at formal camp sites, which hadnt been her intention. And the van didnt have a roof 
rack to carry water sports equipment, which further detracted from her enjoyment.
I noted that Miss T had been without her van throughout the entire spring, summer and 
autumn. So I thought it was reasonable for her to claim for one major trip shed have made in 
her own van (in greater comfort and with more freedom) but for the poor service provided by 
Highway. Provisionally, I said I thought it would be fair and reasonable for it to reimburse her 
for the cost of hire (which the invoice showed was £2,055), plus interest, as well as £750 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Miss T had also complained to us that when the van was finally returned to her, there was a 
great deal of extra damage to it. I said shed have to make a separate complaint to Highway 
about that, as it wasnt part of her original complaint. I didnt agree with her that the 
investigator who dealt with her complaint initially at this Service had said we could deal with 
it, as the file showed hed said she should report the damage to Highway for it to review. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Miss T accepted them without 
further comment, and Highway didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither of the parties said anything that would lead me to reconsider my recent 
provisional findings, I dont think theres any reason they should be changed. So, for the 
reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Highway should now 
compensate Miss T accordingly, in line with my requirements. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Highway Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Miss T £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Refund £2,055 to Miss T for the hire she had to pay - and add interest, at the simple 
yearly rate of 8%, from the date of her payment to the date of settlement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman