DRN-3689410
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has not acted sympathetically, or done what it 
should have, regarding her and her late husbands accounts.
What happened
Mrs S husband sadly passed away in July 2021. Shortly prior to this Mrs S had spoken with 
Barclays to let them know he was on end-of-life care and likely to pass way soon. During this 
conversation a staff member made a comment about Mrs S having a nice day, which Mrs S 
found extremely insensitive given the reason for her call. 
Following Mr S passing, Mrs S then had concerns about a loan not being paid, and she says 
she was told this loan had been cancelled. But Mrs S then received correspondence from 
Barclays and from a third party regarding repayment of the loan, which she found very 
distressing. 
Mrs S also subsequently received a new debit card which had a picture of her husband on it, 
she feels Barclays should have recognised that this would cause her further distress and 
removed the photo. Around a year after Mr S passing, Mrs S then received a credit card in 
his name, causing her further distress at an already difficult time. Mrs S is also concerned 
that not all of Mr S accounts had been closed at the time of his death.
Mrs S raised her concerns about these issues with Barclays, and it looked into what had 
happened. Overall, Barclays agreed that it could have provided Mrs S with better service 
surrounding some of these issues and offered to send her a hamper to say sorry. But Mrs S 
remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to us.
One of our Investigators looked into what had happened. They agreed that Barclays could 
have provided Mrs S with better service here, and asked it to consider whether some 
compensation was appropriate in the circumstances. As a result, Barclays offered Mrs S 
£500. Our Investigator felt this was appropriate compensation. Mrs S disagreed, so her 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
I want to start here by saying that I appreciate Mrs S has been through an extremely difficult 
time. I appreciate that the issues shes had here will have caused her significant distress. My 
role here is to determine which of these issues are the fault of Barclays, and to decide what 
level of compensation is appropriate in light of any failings. For simplicity, I will address each 
issue in turn.
When Mrs S contacted Barclays about her husbands ill health I agree that wishing her to 
have a good day was not appropriate in light of the issues Mrs S had discussed with 
Barclays that day. Barclays also acknowledges that this was an inappropriate comment from 
the member of staff, and it has apologised for the upset caused and has said it has provided 
feedback to that individual. I appreciate this was upsetting for Mrs S, but I dont think any 
upset was intended by the staff member she spoke to. Im therefore satisfied that Barclays 
apology and promise to provide feedback was an appropriate way to resolve this issue.
Regarding Mr S loan, Barclays has said that this was in Mr S sole name, and so the direct 
debit for this loan was automatically cancelled on his passing. The process then was that the 
loan would be essentially written off when confirmation had been received that there were no 
funds in the estate to repay it. These checks would be carried out by a third party acting on 
Barclays behalf, and it was that third party which then contacted Mrs S about the loan. 
I dont think that the process Barclays followed here was incorrect, it appears to be in line 
with how they usually handle loan accounts in these circumstances, but I can see that the 
correspondence Mrs S had with Barclays about this loan did not make it very clear what 
would be happening. And Barclays agrees that it could have been clearer regarding this 
issue. I consider that this uncertainty about the loan will have caused Mrs S some distress, 
and so compensation for this issue is appropriate. But Ill address the total compensation for 
what has happened at the end of this decision.
I understand that Mrs S received a new debit card, after Mr S had passed, which included a 
photograph on the card as a feature. The photograph was of Mr S, and this was very 
upsetting for Mrs S. But Barclays has explained that the photograph had previously been 
added to a card by Mrs S, and that when the card was reissued it was an automated process 
that the existing photograph was reused. There was no way for this automated system to 
know that the photograph was of Mr S. So while I appreciate this was upsetting for Mrs S, I 
dont think I can fairly say this was an error on Barclays part.
A year after Mr S death, Mrs S received a credit card, in his name. This would already have 
been a very difficult time of year for Mrs S, and no doubt this card caused confusion and 
upset. 
Barclays has explained that the credit card account this card related to was in Mrs S name, 
Mr S was a named cardholder but not an account holder. So this account wasnt closed 
when Mr S passed away as it was Mrs S account. However, steps should have been taken 
to ensure that Mr S was removed as an additional account holder, so that no further credit 
cards would be issued in his name. I consider that Barclays could have prevented this card 
in Mr S name from being issued if it had removed him from the account at the time of his 
death. I also note that Mrs S had asked for this account to be closed, but that Barclays did 
not immediately close it as requested. Barclays has said it wanted to be sure that Mrs S 
understood it was her card and not Mr S, but I think it could have explained this to Mrs S at 
a much earlier stage. With these points in mind, I again consider that some compensation is 
appropriate for the impact these issues had on Mrs S.
Mrs S has also raised concerns that Mr S debit card details, for their joint account, were still 
being used for payments after his death and that this card was only cancelled in 2022. 
Barclays records show that Mr S was removed as an account holder for this account in July 
2021. Its unclear exactly what has happened here, and Mrs S hasnt told us of any specific 
payments that she thinks were made with Mr S card details. It seems from her 
correspondence with us that a third party may have tried to use Mr S old card details to take 
a payment  for a recurring direct debit or similar. But given that Im satisfied Barclays did 
remove Mr S from this account in July 2021  meaning his card would have been cancelled 
at that time  I dont think I can fairly say that it has done anything wrong here.Overall, I consider that Barclays did let Mrs S down. It could have been clearer regarding the 
process for the closure of the loan account, and it should have ensured that Mr S was 
removed from the credit card account. And given Mrs S difficult circumstances during this 
period, these errors will have added to her significant distress. I appreciate that Mrs S feels a 
higher compensation award would be appropriate given the impact she feels these issues 
have had on her, but compensation can be subjective and what might feel reasonable or 
enough to one person might not be the same for another. Our awards also arent intended to 
be punitive or to punish the bank for what has happened. So based on what Ive seen I think 
the £500 Barclays has now offered is fair and in line with what I would have recommended in 
the circumstances.
I appreciate this may be very disappointing for Mrs S, but I hope she at least now feels that 
her concerns have been listened to.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Barclays should pay Mrs S £500.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman