DRN-2352672
The complaint
Mr L complains that an error on Interactive Investor Services Limiteds website meant that he 
was unable to sell holdings in a particular fund when he wanted to. When he eventually was 
able to sell, he suffered a loss because the price had dropped.
What happened
Mr L had a trading account with Interactive Investor. On 20 February 2020 he attempted to 
sell some shares he held in a fund called Link Fund Solutions Rugger Gold Inc (Link Fund) 
through Interactive Investors website. He held these shares in a general investment account 
and in an ISA account. The sale of the shares in the general investment account was 
executed successfully. But the sale of the shares in his ISA account didnt take place. 
Instead, he received the following error message:
Unfortunately we are unable to proceed with your sale as you do not have sufficient stock for 
settlement. Please check your orders as you may need to action the sale as a Closing deal 
or cancel a Limit/Stop Loss order if you have set one to sell the same stock. If you have 
recently deposited or requested a transfer in of stock, this will be reflected in your Portfolio. 
However, settlement of this is required to take place in order to trade against this value. 
On 21 February 2020 Mr L used the secure messaging facility on the website, and 
messaged Interactive Investor. In this message he said that he was trying to sell his shares 
in A, but each time he was getting the above error message  he asked Interactive Investor 
to please advise. 
On 26 February 2020 Mr L received a response to his message. It said that it had to place 
this sale manually over the phone for him, and asked him to use the number at the bottom of 
the message. Mr L did this  but unfortunately he had missed the previous cut-off. The Link 
Fund was priced every Wednesday at 4pm and the last business day of each month. As he 
had missed the Wednesdays pricing point, his shares were sold on 28 February 2020 which 
was the last business day. The share price had dropped considerably by that point, and so 
Mr L complained. 
In short Mr L thought he had done everything that was required of him. He said the error 
message was unclear, and indicated he had insufficient stock  thats why he didnt 
telephone and used the secure message instead. Interactive Investor looked into his 
concerns, and acknowledged the technical error and paucity of information in the error 
message. However, it said that it generally advised clients to telephone directly for more 
urgent queries, given that it could take up to five working days for secure messages to be 
responded to. If Mr L had telephoned, he wouldve been able to trade over the phone  and 
had he done so by 4pm on 26 February 2020 he wouldve received the same price. It 
therefore didnt agree it should pay compensation. 
 
Mr L remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. In short, she acknowledged 
that the original issue was caused by a technical error on Interactive Investors website. But 
she thought that Mr L had at least two working days to use telephone trading in order to sell 
at the same pricing point. And she thought that having not explored that as an option, and 
instead sent a secure message, he had not complied with the terms of the account which 
said that orders could only be placed via the website, by telephone or on a trading 
application. The investigator concluded that it wouldnt be fair to ask Interactive Investor to 
compensate Mr L for the loss he experienced. 
Mr L didnt agree. In short he said:
The error message he received when trying to sell the holdings in his ISA wasnt 
clear and didnt ask him to telephone. He had looked up some standards on good 
error messages and said that the message he received from Interactive Investor 
didnt meet them. 
He didnt accept he did anything wrong and it was unfair that the investigator was 
quoting the small print of the terms and conditions to find a reason for why he was 
responsible for Interactive Investors errors. He said that by not upholding his 
complaint, the investigator was essentially saying that a company can mislead their 
customers either intentionally or accidentally and suffer no consequence. 
He followed the procedures set out on their website, and had messaged instead of 
telephoning because thats what all companies were asking consumers to do as a 
result of the ongoing difficulties related to the pandemic. He said he followed this 
advice and lost money. 
The contact us page on Interactive Investors website indicated that the easiest way 
to contact Interactive Investor was via secure message which is what he did. He said 
the matter happened several months ago so he couldnt be sure what he saw on the 
screen, but both sections he likely wouldve referred to on that page (secure 
message for existing consumers and hold an account with us) advised him to use 
secure messaging. 
The error message didnt tell him to contact Interactive Investor by phone. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but Im not persuaded by the arguments he has put forward. Ive 
taken into account his responses to the investigator, and the explanations he has provided. 
And I acknowledge and accept that Mr L initially appropriately placed a trade, and this trade 
wasnt executed through no fault of his own. And I also accept that the error message he 
received wasnt particularly helpful, and contained information which was largely irrelevant to 
him and his particular circumstances. 
That said, and as Mr L acknowledges too, technical issues or glitches can sometimes occur. 
And when they do, before considering the extent of any financial loss, its important to 
consider the extent to which that financial loss couldve been avoided or mitigated.  
In considering this aspect of the complaint, I dont agree with Mr L that it would be fair for this 
service to disregard the terms of the account and only focus on one element of the 
Interactive Investor website  the contact us page. I say this because its clear to me that this wasnt just about contacting Interactive Investor. 
This isnt a scenario where Mr L was looking to get information and couldnt get it through 
the website. Mr L wasnt primarily looking to contact Interactive Investor  he was primarily 
looking to sell some stock. And the contact us page makes no reference to trading at all. 
There are no headings about placing trades. That information is only contained in the terms 
and conditions of the account. And in those terms, the methods available to Mr L are very 
clear  the website, trading applications or via telephone. They dont include secure 
messaging. And I think its reasonable to expect a consumer to be aware of the accepted 
methods of trading  and ensure all of those methods are exhausted when trying to place a 
trade. I would add that Mr Ls secure message did not, in fact, contain an instruction to 
Interactive Investor to sell.
In any event, Interactive Investor has confirmed that Mr L couldve traded on the phone  
and if he had called immediately on 20 February, or at any point between then and 4pm on 
25 February, his trade wouldve been executed. Im satisfied there was ample opportunity for 
Mr L to achieve the same price via telephone that he wouldve achieved had his trade been 
executed correctly when he placed it on 20 February 2020. 
So Ive gone on to consider the reasons Mr L has given for why he didnt do this. Im not 
persuaded by them. I acknowledge that a number of companies during this unprecedented 
situation have asked consumers to avoid using the telephone where possible  although I 
also note that the events occurred around one month before the national lockdown in the 
UK. But, regardless, as the investigator has correctly explained, what other companies in 
other industries ask consumers to do isnt relevant to the complaint. 
The key point here is that it wasnt possible for Mr L to avoid phone contact. Trading through 
the website didnt work. Im not aware that Mr L tried to trade using the application. And so 
the only other method Mr L had to place his trade when he wanted was via telephone. Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr L was told not to telephone by Interactive Investor. 
Furthermore, this wasnt a narrow opportunity that Mr L had. He had already used secure 
messaging on 21 February 2020. Come Monday 24 February, or even Tuesday 25 
February, Mr L could see he hadnt received a response. Given his desire to place the trade, 
the fact that it had now been 5 days after the error had occurred, and having received no 
reply, Im satisfied it wouldve been reasonable for him to have telephoned. If he had done 
that, he wouldve entirely avoided the loss he is now claiming. 
For all these reasons, I dont agree it would be fair and reasonable to ask Interactive Investor 
to make good any losses Mr L suffered by his stock being sold at a later pricing point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman