DRN-2884621
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unreasonably settled a claim arising out 
of an accident against his named driver under his motor policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr Gs named driver was involved in an accident with another driver when 
he was joining the main carriage way from a minor road to a main road.
From the circumstances of the accident Aviva was of the view that it couldnt defend any 
claim from the other driver who had claimed accident damage and personal injury. So, it 
decided to accept the claim on a without prejudice basis.
Mr G didnt think this was fair because he said there was case law where the other driver 
was held partly to blame in similar circumstances. But Aviva wouldnt change its stance, so 
Mr G brought his complaint to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, as the investigator explained this service doesnt decide who is liable for any accident 
as thats a matter for the Court only. All we can do is to assess whether Aviva came to a 
reasonable decision based on the terms and conditions of the policy. This service also has 
no jurisdiction to tell an insurer that its terms are unreasonable either as that is only in the 
remit of the regulator, namely the Financial Conduct Authority. Therefore, I wont be 
considering Mr Gs contention that theres an over reliance on subrogation clauses by the 
insurance industry. 
Every motor policy provides indemnity for the policyholder if there is claim against them 
arising out of an accident. This provision of indemnity is provided on the basis the insurer 
has the right to take over and defend any such claims as it thinks fit. Avivas policy with Mr G 
is no different. 
Mr Gs policy says the following:
Our rights
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming 
under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our 
own benefit to recover any payment we have made under this policy
We shall have full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of 
any claim.
This clause isnt unusual, and I dont find it unfair or unreasonable as its there to protect the 
policyholder or the named driver from excessive legal costs and indeed damages from 
another driver or any other person who has claimed the policyholder caused an accident and 
consequent loss and damage. Thats essentially why a policyholder such as Mr G here, pays 
Aviva the premium. 
On this basis since it is Aviva who is at risk of the legal costs and damages (rather than Mr 
G, or more specifically his named driver), its not generically unreasonable that its for Aviva 
to decide whether to risk any such defence of any claim or not. Furthermore, it is apparent 
that Aviva only accepted the other drivers claim on a without prejudice basis too. This 
means there is no admission of liability made by Aviva on behalf of Mr Gs named driver. In 
these circumstances that permits Mr G to take this matter to Court himself if he wishes but 
that would be without the protection of the indemnity from Aviva so it would be at Mr Gs sole 
risk. 
My role in this complaint is to assess whether Aviva did this fairly. I think it did. Aviva as 
against Mr G, has extensive experience in deciding which cases are capable of being 
successful and which are not. Further the pre-action and personal injuries protocols with the 
legal framework for such disputes, induce insurers to seek to settle such claims without 
recourse to legal action. Further the circumstances of the accident record that Mr Gs named 
driver was emerging from a side road onto a main road thereby always having the duty of 
care not to emerge until it was safe to do so.  So, taking all of this into consideration I dont 
find Aviva were unreasonable in coming to the conclusion that this claim against Mr Gs 
policy from the other driver, should be settled. 
The case law that Mr G referred talked of contributory negligence for a driver on a main road 
in accident circumstances not too dissimilar to the accident in which Mr Gs named driver 
was involved with here. But simply finding that the other driver is contributorily negligent 
doesnt absolve Mr Gs named driver of any negligence at all. Moreover, it doesnt change 
how the accident is recorded on the named drivers insurance record or indeed Mr Gs policy 
record as it would still remain recorded as a fault claim, since Aviva in those circumstances 
would still be unable to get recover all of its costs as Mr Gs named driver would still be 
negligent to some degree. So, this case law doesnt change any outcome for Mr G or his 
named driver at all, so I consider it is basically irrelevant.
 
Lastly, Mr G contends that as the other driver asked his named driver at the time of accident 
for £1,000 to go away that the accident was a cash for crash scenario. However, that 
doesnt take away the circumstances of how the accident occurred, namely that Mr Gs 
named driver was emerging out of a side road. So, whilst the other driver might well have 
been unsavoury, I dont think it matters much given the circumstances.  This is because 
Aviva was of the view that nonetheless it would be in difficulty in successfully defending this 
other drivers claim. 
So, given the circumstances of the accident, the pre-action protocols which Aviva must 
follow, plus the fact that Aviva is wholly entitled to make reasonable decisions on liability and 
settlement, I dont consider that Avivas decision here was unreasonable or indeed unfair to 
Mr G given it settled the matter on a without prejudice basis. 
My final decisionSo, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman