DRN-3937497
The complaint
Ms H complains that Santander UK Plc has added interest and charges onto her loan that it 
should not have done.   
What happened
Ms H took out a loan with Santander in 2008, which then defaulted in early 2011. Ms H 
brought a complaint against Santander to our service soon after about financial difficulties, 
which was upheld. The ombudsman directed Santander to remove any unearned interest 
from the defaulted amount, which they suggested was £5,042.83. 
Ms H has provided a statement from 2012 which she says shows that soon after the 
decision from our service, Santander added £5,952.60 of interest back onto the loan 
account. She says that her debt management company who has been assisting her says her 
remaining balance is around £6,000 less that what Santander has said is remaining. 
Because of this, she thinks the figures Santander has provided is incorrect. However, 
Santander confirmed that the outstanding balance it provided was correct and it had made 
no error. The complaint was referred to our service.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and pushed Santander for a more in-depth 
explanation of the figures. They explained that the full value of outstanding unearned interest 
at the time of the default was £5,959.60, not £5,042.83, and that is why the figure appeared 
on the statements Ms H produced. But this was them highlighting the gross balance 
compared to the net balance and showing the unearned interest but was not them adding 
any interest onto the overall balance. They also confirmed that Ms Hs debt management 
company has the net balance and not the gross balance information.
They said that they had removed the £5,042.83 from the balance of the loan as requested by 
the ombudsman. But they were unable to specifically take this from the gross balance, and 
instead this was deducted as if it were a normal payment. This means the net balance has 
remained lower than the gross balance which has caused some confusion. The Investigator 
agreed that looking at the figures, the outstanding balance suggested by Santander was 
correct. 
Santander noted that the difference between the actual unearned interest at the time the 
account defaulted was £5,959.60, not £5,042.83. Because of this, they offered to deduct the 
difference between these two figures from the loan balance, totalling £909.77. The 
Investigator felt this was a fair outcome. 
Ms H disagreed with this. She still felt the gross balance of the loan was incorrect and that 
Santander had added interest onto the loan which it should not have done. Part of her 
reasoning was that if there was £5,969.60 of unearned interest left when the account 
defaulted, this meant around half of the interest she was expected to pay on the loan had 
accrued in the first few years, which she didnt feel was correct.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons, and I think that 
the gross balance Santander has highlighted is correct. Ive seen no evidence they have 
added any interest back onto the loan and I agree that their offer to deduct £909.77 from the 
loan balance is fair in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Firstly, I want to explain that I wont be going into the fine detail of the figures as these have 
already been gone over in detail by the Investigator and Im aware that further payments will 
have been made since that time, so the figures may not be up to date. 
Ive carefully looked over all of the transactions on the account, taking into account the 
opening balance of £17,756 and that the total that was due to be borrowed including interest 
was £26,688. Having done so, based on what Ms H has paid so far, Im satisfied that the 
gross balance Santander quoted in the notice of sums in arrears dated July 2022 was 
correct. And Im satisfied this includes the loan deduction of £5,042.83 in 2012. 
Ive looked at the statement Ms H provided which she thinks shows Santander added 
interest to the loan. This shows the unearned interest being deducted from the net balance 
of the loan. It then shows that the net balance on 12 January 2013 was £10,682.22. The 
gross balance on 12 January 2013 was £16,634.82. The difference between these two was 
£5,952.60 which was the unearned interest on the account. Santander has explained that 
when it deducted the £5042.83 on 13 November 2012, ideally it should have been removed 
specifically from the unearned interest, and therefore the gross balance. But due to the way 
its systems work, it was only able to deduct it as a regular payment, which is reflected on the 
statement. Looking at this, Im satisfied that it does not show that Santander added interest 
back onto the loan when it should not have done. 
I think the confusion has partially stemmed from the way in which the interest was deducted 
from the balance of the loan in 2012, and also from a misunderstanding about how interest is 
applied to loans. Essentially, Ms Hs loan repayments were the same every month because 
of how the interest was calculated. At the start of the loan term, her repayments included 
more interest but less of the loan balance. Towards the end of the loan term, the repayments 
would have included less interest but more of the loan balance. Because of this, Ms H paid 
more interest in the first few years prior to the account being defaulted, and this is why there 
was not as much unearned interest at the default date as she as expecting. So, I dont agree 
that the figures provided by Santander are incorrect, and Im satisfied that the remaining 
balance they have quoted is right.
Santander has offered to reduce the outstanding balance by £909.77, which is the difference 
between what was recommended by the previous ombudsman and the unearned interest 
they say was remaining on the account at default. I wont be passing comment on the 
fairness of a decision that has already been accepted by Ms H or the merits of it at all. 
Santanders offer does not sound unreasonable and it should apply this to Ms Hs loan 
balance if she accepts it.  
My final decision
I do not think Santander UK Plc has made an error in relation to the outstanding loan balance. Ms H is now able to accept the offer to reduce the outstanding loan balance by 
£909.77.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman