DRN-3395022
The complaint
Miss T and Mr W complain about the service Lloyds Bank PLC provided and the way they 
were treated when Mr W tried to arrange a payment break on their mortgage.
What happened
In 2014 Miss T and Mr W took out a capital repayment mortgage for around £233,000 over
a term of 19 years with Lloyds Bank PLC. At the end of March 2020 Mr W lost his job due 
to the coronavirus pandemic. Lloyds agreed two three-month payment deferrals in line with 
government guidelines about how lenders should treat their customers during the 
pandemic. The deferrals came to an end in early October 2020.
Mr W contacted Lloyds in October to arrange a new fixed term interest rate product which 
would reduce the contractual monthly payments (CMP) on the mortgage. He found out 
there was a marker against the mortgage account affecting actions on the account, which 
he and Miss T didnt know about. Lloyds said they could remove that within ten days and 
Mr W provided Lloyds with written confirmation he and Miss T agreed to that happening.
There was a delay in getting the marker removed and it was still there by the end of 
November. That meant it wasnt possible for Lloyds to arrange the new product by the 
beginning of November as Mr W had hoped. In November 2020 Lloyds sent documents for 
Miss T and Mr W to sign for the product transfer, which they did and sent them back. 
Lloyds didnt receive them, so they had to send replacements. But, once Lloyds had 
received the signed documents, they reassured Mr W the new rate would be in place for 
the beginning of December.
When Lloyds underwriters considered the application, however, no record of an agreed 
payment break could be found on their system. And the application for the fixed interest 
rate product was refused on grounds Miss T and Mr W were in arrears with their mortgage.
Lloyds agreed theyd delayed processing the application for the fixed rate product. And to 
put things right they backdated the interest rate Miss T and Mr W had applied for to start at 
the beginning of November 2020, even though, by then, Miss T and Mr W had fallen into 
arrears. And they arranged for the arrears on the account to be amended to reflect what 
would have been outstanding if the new lower CMP had been in place. To compensate   
Miss T and Mr W for the distress and inconvenience they were caused, Lloyds paid them 
£150.
In November 2020 Mr W needed additional help from Lloyds as he wasnt going to be able 
to make the CMP that month. Although hed found a new job in mid-October 2020, he 
wasnt going to be paid in time. He spoke to Lloyds about his options towards the end of 
October, while the application for the fixed rate was ongoing. During those conversations, 
Mr W agreed to a hold on his account which meant the CMP didnt have to be paid for 60 
days.
Mr W complained he hadnt been told clearly what the effect of the 60-day hold would be  
he hadnt understood arrears would build up. And he was concerned about the impact on 
his credit file and ability to borrow money in the future. Lloyds said theyd explained 
everything clearly to Mr W. But they agreed to rectify his credit record if he could provide 
evidence hed had funds available in his bank to pay the CMP in November and December 
at the new lower rate theyd applied to the account. Mr W said hed planned to make the 
lower CMP with help from a relative and thought it was unfair Lloyds required him to 
provide evidence he had funds available in an account before requesting any amendment 
to his credit file.
In around January 2021, Lloyds chased Miss T and Mr W about the arrears on their 
account. Mr W was surprised that happened since he hadnt understood arrears had 
accrued. And he was unhappy Lloyds were demanding payment on the basis of the old 
higher interest rate.
Lloyds reviewed their calculations and reconstructed the mortgage account using the lower 
interest rates. Mr W felt their explanation of the figures was unclear. Lloyds agreed, 
explained things again and paid a further £50 compensation to apologise for that.
Mr W was distressed by what had happened. Hed been unwell because of what had 
happened to him during the pandemic and the financial difficulty he found himself in. And 
Miss T was shielding. Mr W didnt think Lloyds had done enough to put things right, so he 
brought the complaint to this service and Miss T agreed to us considering it.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had resolved things fairly and reasonably and didnt 
uphold the complaint. Since Mr W wasnt happy with our investigators view, the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of 
which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for all the information Mr W and Lloyds have provided. There have been some 
developments and some further information has been provided since our investigator issued 
his view. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make further 
comments before I come to a final decision. I may not mention everything theyve told us.
That reflects the informal nature of this service and I dont intend to be discourteous. And 
Ive taken into account everything the parties have said in coming to my conclusions about 
this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the difficult time Miss T and Mr W have had because of the pandemic 
and the additional stress the situation with Lloyds has caused. To put things right Mr W 
wanted his credit file to remove reference to the arrears; the mortgage account to show 
that the lower interest rate was in place for November and December 2020; to be able to 
raise finance on his property to consolidate his debt; and the compensation Lloyds had 
offered to be reviewed.
The application for the fixed interest rate product
I can understand Miss T and Mr W will have been disappointed when the application for the 
fixed interest rate product was delayed and then refused because arrears had built up on the 
account.I think the steps taken by Lloyds to backdate the start date of the new interest rate product 
to 1 November 2020 and to reconstruct the mortgage account to reflect that were fair and 
reasonable. They paid £150 compensation for the impact of the delay. And they paid an 
additional £50 to apologise for failing to explain the figures clearly.
I acknowledge Mr W had been under stress because of the impact the pandemic had 
on him. And I can understand it will have added to an already stressful situation for him 
and Miss T when the product application didnt go through.
I acknowledge Mr W didnt understand that arrears would accrue as a result of the 60-day 
hold on the account hed agreed with Lloyds while the application was being considered. 
And I can understand that added to his concerns. Ill address that issue below and explain 
why I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong. But bearing that, and Miss T and Mr Ws 
overall situation in mind, I think the compensation Lloyds paid was fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
The phone calls
Mr W says Lloyds didnt make clear to him what the effect of agreeing to the 60-day hold 
would be. He didnt understand that, if he didnt make the November and December 2020 
payments, arrears would accrue, and they would impact his credit file and his ability to raise 
finance in the future. He thought the missed payments would be added to the mortgage, as 
they had been during the pandemic deferral periods, and Miss T and he would be able to 
pay them over the remaining life of the mortgage.
Ive listened to the calls Mr W had with Lloyds before agreeing to the 60-day hold on the 
mortgage account. Lloyds set out three options as to how they might be able to help him  
putting him through to a team that could advise him on longer term financial assistance if he 
thought his inability to pay the mortgage would go beyond 60 days; the 60-day hold he 
opted for; and the possibility of agreeing a business as usual payment holiday. Mr W told 
Lloyds he needed to sort things out that day and opted to discuss the 60-day hold.
Lloyds explained clearly  and Mr W confirmed hed understood - that the 60-day hold was 
different to the payment deferrals Lloyds had agreed under the pandemic guidelines; 
theyd continue to charge him interest during the hold period; any payments he didnt make 
would be classed as missed payments, would appear on his credit file and could make 
borrowing in the future more expensive and more difficult; he should make any payments 
he could during the hold period to minimise the impact of the payments he missed; and he 
would need to catch up on any missed payments once the hold had come to an end.
Lloyds didnt use the word arrears. But, from what Lloyds said, I think Mr W ought 
reasonably to have understood that if he didnt make any payments during November and 
December 2020, hed incur missed payments  or arrears  which would impact his credit 
file. Lloyds also provided Mr W with details of where to get independent financial advice 
about his wider financial position.
Mr W says he was in an anxious state when he rang Lloyds due to their mis-management of 
the re-mortgage. Mr W mentioned to Lloyds hed never been in such a difficult financial 
position before. But there was nothing in Mr Ws tone or behaviour which I think should have 
alerted Lloyds that he didnt understand what theyd told him. He confirmed he did and was 
given the chance to say if he didnt.
Overall, I think Lloyds gave Mr W appropriate and clear information and treated him 
sympathetically and fairly, as Id expect them to have done.Despite everything, Lloyds said theyd agree to adjust Mr Ws credit records relating to the 
arrears if Mr W could provide evidence hed had funds available in his bank to make the 
November and December payments. They acknowledged that, despite the clear 
information theyd provided, Mr W had misunderstood the position. Mr Ws told us his 
mother had set funds aside to make the November payment if that had been necessary. 
Im not aware if hes provided evidence of this to Lloyds. If Mr W has evidence available to 
show he had funds available, Id encourage him to share that with Lloyds if he hasnt 
already done so. And Id encourage Lloyds to consider whether it enables them, in line with 
their relevant reporting obligations, to request any adjustments to his or Miss Ts credit 
files.
Recent developments
Since Ive been considering this complaint, Lloyds have found an error in the calculations 
they carried out, which I understand affects the arrears on Miss T and Mr Ws account and 
the reconstruction they carried out. We dont provide a checking service for these sorts of 
calculations. Id encourage Lloyds to carry out whatever reconstruction they consider is 
appropriate now; and explain clearly to Miss T and Mr W the adjustments they are making, 
the correct level of arrears on the account, why they are necessary and what their CMP will 
be going forward. This mistake isnt part of this complaint, but Lloyds may wish to consider 
making an additional compensation payment to Miss T and Mr W to reflect the further 
distress and inconvenience I imagine this is likely to cause them.
Lloyds have also said there are now several months arrears on the account, and they may 
need to consider taking repossession action. Mr Ws explained the situation has sadly 
caused relations between Miss T and Mr W to deteriorate to the extent that they are now 
planning to sell the property. Mr W blames Lloyds for that. I dont think I can say the 
situation arose as a direct result of anything Lloyds have done or that they could have 
foreseen it. But, given the circumstances and the arrears that are building up, Id 
encourage the parties to communicate direct, and straight away, about Miss T and Mr Ws 
options going forward. And Id encourage Miss T and Mr W to seek independent financial 
advice if they are concerned about their finances overall.
In summary, whilst I understand the situation has been difficult and stressful for Miss T and 
Mr W, bearing everything in mind, I think Lloyds have done what Id expect to put things 
right. So, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for them, I dont uphold Miss T and Mr 
Ws complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold Miss T and Mr Ws complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had any comments to make on my provisional decision. So, I see no need to 
change my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss T and Mr Ws 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman