DRN-4283955
Complaint
Miss O has complained about a loan Progressive Money Limited (Progressive) which she 
says was unfairly lent to her. She says the loan should never have been granted and it was 
irresponsibly lent.
Background
Progressive provided Miss O with a loan for £15,000.00 in September 2018. This loan had 
an APR of 31.7% and the total amount to be repaid of £44,686.80, which included interest 
fees and charges of £29,686.80 (made up of interest of £27,796.80, an acceptance fee of 
£1,500.00 and an administration fee of £390), was due to be repaid in 120 monthly 
instalments of around £372.39.
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss O and Progressive had told us. He thought that 
Progressive hadnt acted unfairly by providing this loan to Miss O and so didnt think that the 
complaint should be upheld. Miss O disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Os complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Os complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Progressive needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Progressive needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether Miss O could afford to make her repayments before providing 
this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Progressive says Miss Os loan application was manually assessed by an underwriter after 
she provided details of her monthly income and information on her expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked Miss Os declarations against information on a credit search it carried out, 
bank statements that it obtained from Miss O and questions that it asked her during a 
telephone interview. 
In Progressives view all of the information it gathered showed that Miss O could comfortably 
afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Miss O has said 
she was already in difficulty and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss O and Progressive have said. 
Its clear that Progressive did obtain a significant amount of information before it decided to 
proceed with Miss Os application. And this information does appear to suggest that, at the 
time at least, the monthly loan repayments were affordable for Miss O. I accept that Miss Os 
actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the information Progressive obtained. And I know that Miss O did have 
outstanding debts. 
However, having listened to the recording of the call Miss O had with Progressives 
underwriter its clear that it was Miss O intention to use the majority of the funds from this 
loan to settle existing debts. I can see Miss O did provide Progressive with an undertaking 
that she would be using £9,500.00 of these funds to repay other debts. Miss O was also 
asked if she was sure she wanted to borrow as much as £15,000.00 even though she was 
going to only going to consolidate balances amounting to £9,500.00 and she confirmed that 
she did as she wanted to repay another loan taken to purchase a sofa. 
I dont know if Miss O did go on to do this. But Progressive could only make a reasonable 
decision based on the information it had available at the time. And Im satisfied that the 
proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to reduce the balances on some of 
Miss Os existing accounts in the way that Miss O had committed to. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also add that even though mentioned clearing the balance 
on one of the loans that wasnt being consolidated with bonuses from work in the following 
year, the affordability assessment was nonetheless based on Miss O making the payments 
to this loan. 
Its also worth noting that as this was a first loan Progressive was providing to Miss O, there 
wasnt a history of Miss O obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in 
the way she committed to. So Progressive was reasonably entitled to believe that Miss O 
would be left in a better position after being provided with this loan  particular given the 
significant amount of information gathered pointed to this being the case.
I accept it possible that Miss Os full circumstances may not be reflected in the information 
Progressive gathered or in the information she has since provided, notwithstanding just how 
much information was obtained. For example, I note that Miss O has said that her outgoings 
after her recent house move ended up being higher than shed anticipated or what showed 
in her bank statements. And her expenditure continued to increase as a result of the wider 
economic circumstances. But its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a firm did something wrong. 
Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that 
Progressive did anything wrong when providing this loan to Miss O - it carried out 
proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. I dont think that Progressive could reasonably have foreseen 
the unprecedented events over the coming years which have had such a profound impact 
wider economy and have undoubtedly impacted on Miss Os disposable income.Ive also considered what Miss O has said about being told that the capital would reduce 
over time. I can confirm that this is the way that loans typically work  insofar as they are 
based on an amortisation schedule where the monthly repayment is made up of all of the 
interest accrued in a month and a portion of the capital advanced. Albeit the amount that a 
balance reduces and how quickly this happens depends on the term of the loan. 
For example, where a loan is taken over a longer term the capital is repaid over a longer 
period resulting in it reducing more slowly. In this case as the term of the loan was 10 years 
and it would have taken a longer period before a larger portion of the monthly repayment 
went towards the capital owing rather than interest.
Furthermore, having listened to Miss Os call with the underwriter, it is clear that Miss O 
queried whether the interest rate would be lower if she took her loan over a longer term. She 
had asked this question because she was concerned about the amount she had to pay to 
exit a different loan early. The underwriter did confirm that the APR would be lower if the 
loan was taken over a longer term. 
However, he also went on to say that this could be misleading as a longer term would see 
Miss O pay more interest overall. And crucially Miss O was told that if she did decide to 
settle the loan early shed have to pay all of the capital outstanding plus 28 days interest. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that this isnt what happened. So I dont think that Miss O was 
misled over how the loan would be amortised and that she chose to opt for a longer term 
even though was made aware this could cost her more overall.
Finally, Ive also seen what Miss O has said about being unhappy with the fact that she 
approached a broker for a loan of £3,000.00 and yet instead ended up with a loan where she 
had to repay over £40,000.00 over ten years. I dont know about what discussions Miss O 
had with the broker prior to the underwriting call she had with Progressive. 
But having listened to the Progressive underwriters call with Miss O its clear that she was 
asked about whether she was sure she wanted to borrow as much as £15,000.00 (as well as 
a repayment term of ten years) on more than one occasion. So I dont think that Progressive, 
which is the respondent firm Im considering this complaint against, is responsible for Miss O 
borrowing more than she might have initially wanted to. Furthermore, if Miss O is unhappy 
with the conduct of the broker, then this is a matter that she would need to take up with it 
rather than Progressive. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Progressive acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when lending to Miss O. It didnt simply accept what Miss O said about her 
circumstances when deciding whether to lend and instead manually underwrote the loan 
after obtaining a significant amount of information backing up the monthly payments being 
affordable for her. As this is the case, I cannot reasonably and do not uphold this complaint. 
I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Miss O as its clear she feels strongly 
about this matter. And Im also sorry to hear that shes experiencing difficulty too. But I hope 
shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman