DRN-2013496
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) incorrectly deemed his boiler beyond 
economical repair and provided poor service, under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr Hs boiler broke down. Aviva was contacted who sent an engineer. 
The engineer deemed the boiler beyond economic repair (BER) and arranged for temporary 
heaters. Mr H was told that Aviva would pay for the cost of the replacement boiler but not the 
installation as per the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr H was out of the country at the time and asked Aviva to communicate via email, providing 
his email address, but he received no email correspondence. Mr H told Aviva that he had 
vulnerable family members at home and so there was an urgency to get the boiler up and 
running. 
A video survey was arranged but Aviva failed to attend, which inconvenienced Mr Hs family 
member who had to wait in for the call. So a face to face survey was conducted in which the 
surveyor provided the cost of installation and told Mr H that it was possible that the pipework 
would need changing. Mr H was unhappy about this as he had changed the pipework 
recently and felt that Aviva should use the same pipework. Also, he was still unhappy the 
video survey hadnt taken place, so he raised a complaint to Aviva.  
A further survey was conducted in January 2020 and the engineer said that the cost of the 
replacement boiler would be cheaper than the existing boiler but would mean that there 
might be damage to the brickwork/plaster, which Mr H would be responsible for. Mr H wasnt 
happy about this especially as he felt that his boiler wasnt BER. He had received a quote of 
£1,620 to replace the boiler with the same model from another company. And Aviva hadnt 
sent him the breakdown of how it deemed his boiler BER. So he raised a further complaint.
Aviva accepted that its customer service fell below its usual standard and offered £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. It also said that it would consider 
the invoice once received but would only pay the cost it wouldve incurred to supply the 
boiler, which was £460. 
Mr H wasnt happy about Avivas response and referred his complaint to the service. He said 
that Aviva had miscalculated the BER and the boiler replacement had to be like for like. So it 
didnt follow the policy terms and conditions. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that Aviva had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly. It had would have cost Aviva £460 to 
replace the boiler, which is what it offered. Aviva acknowledged the poor service and offered 
£300 compensation which was reasonable. So there was nothing further she could ask it to 
do.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view as he said Aviva had failed to cost-effectively 
source parts which affected how it declared the boiler BER. So he asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr H, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr Hs policy covered unlimited repairs to the boiler, with no cost limit for the boiler provided 
it wasnt deemed BER. 
Mr H said that the boiler Aviva had chosen to replace his boiler wasnt like for like and it had 
miscalculated the BER of his boiler. The policy provides for a replacement boiler which Aviva 
source and which has the same or similar specifications. It also states that the boiler doesnt 
have to be a like for like replacement. So, Aviva wasnt required to provide the same model 
as Mr Hs boiler- only a model that had the same or similar features, which is what it offered 
here. 
Mr H requested from Aviva a breakdown of the costs that it used to calculate the BER. Aviva 
didnt provide this but did provide a list of the cost of the parts, which when calculated, 
exceeded the 85% limit, making Mr Hs boiler BER. Aviva relied upon the following term of 
the policy, which said: 
Beyond Economical Repair (BER) (applies to the boiler only): Upon making a claim, the
total cost of parts including VAT required to repair the boiler will be determined by us using
reputable suppliers. If this cost exceeds 85% of the manufacturers current retail price or if
this is not available, the average current retail price available through Leading UK suppliers
for a boiler of the same or similar make and model to your boiler or the then current version
of your boiler, it will be deemed to be BER.
Although I can understand Mr Hs frustration, I cant say that Aviva were unreasonable 
relying on this term. And I cant say that it departed from the term as it sourced a similar 
model to replace Mr Hs boiler and agreed to pay Mr H what it wouldve cost Aviva to supply 
the boiler.
Mr H similarly said that Aviva didnt approach a number of suppliers in order to obtain a 
competitive price for the boiler. Having read the term, I dont think it stipulates that Aviva has 
to obtain more than one supplier for a claim. Aviva has said that it used a supplier that is 
available to both trade and retail customers to purchase boilers and spare parts were 
necessary. I am satisfied that it did so here and that it relied upon the term in doing so.
Mr H also complained about the level of service which he said was poor. He said this related 
to misinformation he was given, the failed appointment and the chasing for responses to his 
complaint amongst other things. Aviva recognised that the service it provided was lacking 
and offered £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. Having 
reviewed this carefully, I am of the view that this is a reasonable level of compensation that 
adequately reflected the inconvenience and distress caused and I wont be asking Aviva to 
increase its offer. Overall, I am satisfied that Aviva applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly and as 
such I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited:
To pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused and £460 towards the cost of the 
replacement boiler, as I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman