DRN-1951554
 
The complaint
Ms B complains that Nationwide didnt give her correct information about transferring a joint
mortgage into her sole name. She says this resulted in higher monthly payments that she
struggled to maintain. She asks for compensation.
What happened
Ms B had a joint mortgage with her ex-husband. In early 2019 they were in the process of a
divorce and Ms B contacted Nationwide about transferring the mortgage into her sole name.
Nationwide refers to this as change of borrower. Ms B says she was given incorrect
information. She says she wasnt told the change of borrower process had to be complete
before she could make changes to the mortgage. This resulted in her having to make higher
monthly payments, which she struggled to maintain.
Nationwide said it hadnt given Ms B incorrect information about the process. But its service
had been poor at times. It offered £75 compensation for this.
Our investigator said Nationwide should have explained the change of borrower process to
Ms B before she paid the application fee. She said Nationwide should refund the application
fee (£125) and pay £200 compensation for the upset caused.
I didn't agree with all of the investigator's recommendations. So I sent a provisional decision 
to the parties to explain what I thought about the complaint. In summary, I didn't think 
Nationwide had made an error that would make it fair and reasonable to require it to pay 
more compensation.
Ms B didn't agree with me. She said she'd paid the £125 fee for nothing, and didn't 
realise that her ex-husband would have to be taken off the deeds, or that this wouldn't 
happen until her divorce was final. She asked that I put myself in her shoes, not knowing 
how the process works. Having considered what Ms B said, I haven't changed what I think 
about this complaint. So what I've decided is substantially the same as set out in my 
provisional decision, although I have added comments in response to what Ms B has said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and
the wider circumstances.
what happened?
Ms B had a joint mortgage with her ex-husband. She contacted Nationwide in January 2019
as they were divorcing and she wanted the mortgage to be transferred into her sole name.
Ms B says she also wanted to reduce her monthly payments.Ms B paid the application fee and went through the change of borrower application with a
mortgage adviser.
Nationwide approved Ms Bs change of borrower application. It wrote to Ms Bs solicitor in
mid January 2019 setting out the steps needed to complete the process. It also wrote to Ms
B saying it had approved her application and confirming it had sent information to her
solicitor to prepare the documents needed to change the names on the mortgage and title
deeds.
Ms B emailed the mortgage adviser in early February saying the mortgage had been
transferred into her name. She wanted to check the payments would be taken from her
account. The adviser replied saying Nationwide hadnt had confirmation from the solicitor
that the mortgage had been transferred into Ms Bs sole name.
Later in February, Ms B made an appointment with the mortgage adviser to discuss
switching rates. Ms B says she also wanted to extend the mortgage term. The mortgage
adviser emailed Ms B to say she couldnt do this until shed received confirmation from the
solicitor that the mortgage had been transferred into Ms Bs sole name. She also pointed out 
that the earliest Ms B could switch products without incurring an early repayment charge was 
1 April 2019.
Ms B cancelled the appointment by email. She said the mortgage adviser hadnt told her she 
had to wait for the solicitor to confirm the change of borrower had completed. Her solicitor 
had told her this wouldnt happen until the divorce was finalised, in about six months. Ms B 
said if shed been given correct information she would have requested a new mortgage, with 
a lower monthly payment.
Ms B has remortgaged with another lender.
did Nationwide make an error?
I can see that this was a stressful time for Ms B. She didnt know what was involved in
transferring a joint mortgage into her sole name. But I dont think Nationwide misled her, or is 
responsible for any loss.
Ms B says she paid the £125 application fee for nothing. But I don't think that's fair. 
Nationwide approved Ms Bs change of borrower application. It wrote to Ms B and her
solicitor to confirm this and to provide information for the solicitor to complete the process.
I dont think Nationwide made an error when its mortgage adviser didnt tell Ms B there
would be changes to the deeds. A change in the title and the mortgage deed, or charge, is
part of the process when there is change of borrower. But if the changes to the property title
and mortgage are agreed by the borrowers, this should be a straight forward process, dealt
with by the solicitors.
Nationwide didnt cause the change of borrower to be delayed. It wasn't Nationwide that said 
it couldn't happen until Ms B's divorce was final: Ms B said it was her solicitor that advised 
this.  It seems likely this was because Ms Bs divorce (and the related financial settlement) 
wasnt at the point where a transfer of the property title and change of borrower could take 
place. This wasnt Nationwides fault, and I dont see how it could have known this when Ms 
B made her request to remove her ex-husband from the mortgage. 
Ms B says the mortgage adviser didnt tell her the change of borrower process had to
complete before she could make changes to the mortgage. She says the mortgage adviser
told her to make an appointment as soon as the mortgage offer came through in her solename. I think this is unlikely  especially as it isnt consistent with the information set out by
the mortgage adviser in her emails in February 2019.
Ms B says she wanted her monthly payments to be £500, but had to pay £700 and (after the 
products ended) £840 due to the incorrect advice. This isnt right. These monthly payments 
were agreed when Ms B (and the joint account holder) took out the mortgage products and 
additional borrowing in 2017. They didnt increase due to any advice given in early 2019.
I think Ms B is perhaps saying that, if shed been given correct information about the change
of borrower process, shed have applied to make changes to the mortgage in January 2019,
so that the monthly payments were lower. But if shed switched products in January 2019,
shed have had to pay an early repayment charge  which she said she wanted to avoid.
Ms Bs products ended in May and June, and her monthly payments increased after this,
while her mortgage was on Nationwides standard variable rate. But this wasnt due to any
misunderstanding or problems with the change of borrower process. This was due to the
products ending.
Nationwide told Ms B, before the products ended, that she could switch rates with the joint
account holders consent. Ms B has said she was on speaking terms with her ex-husband
and could have made a joint application. Its not clear why she didnt do this, so she could
benefit from a product with a lower interest rate. But I cant see that her failure to do so was
due to an error by Nationwide. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to
pay compensation for the several months her mortgage was on its standard variable rate.
Nationwide had a £100 cashback offer for product switches. This offer ended in early
February 2019. Ms B didnt apply to switch while the offer was available  and if she had
shed have paid an ERC. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to pay
Ms B £200 for not being able to take advantage of the cashback offer.
Ive thought about whether the mortgage adviser could have done more to assist Ms B in
January 2019. For instance, whether she should have told her to apply for a term extension
before applying for a change of borrower. But this would have required a joint application, in
circumstances where the mortgage adviser would have known one of the applicants would
be removed from the mortgage in the near future. And the mortgage adviser didnt know Ms
Bs circumstances would mean the change of borrower wouldnt complete for some months.
So I think it was reasonable for the mortgage adviser to say that Ms B should make an
appointment to make changes to the mortgage once the change of borrower had completed.
Nationwide offered £75 to Ms B for upset caused when the mortgage adviser didnt
acknowledge an email and for a tactless remark. Ms B has said she wasnt upset by the
remark. I think £75 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. This is because I find the compensation 
offered by Nationwide Building Society is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman