DRN-4486706
The complaint
Mr F and Mr F complain about the issues they faced when trying to change their payment 
due date on their mortgage held with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Mr F and Mr Fs mortgage payments were due on the 25th of each month. Mr F called Halifax 
on 22 February 2022 to say that hed changed jobs and his salary payment date was 
changing. To plan his finances, he asked that Halifax change their payment due date to the 
first of each month.
Mr F asked for the change to take effect from March. Halifax said that it was too late to 
process the amendment for 1 March, but they could expect Marchs direct debit to be taken 
within the first five working days of the month. From April thereafter the direct debits would 
be taken on the first of each month.  
Mr F and Mr Fs payment due date in fact changed from 1 April. So Marchs payment was 
still taken on 25 March. Mr and Mr F complained to Halifax. They said they were given wrong 
information and werent expecting a payment to come out on 25 March. This caused them to 
go into their overdraft. 
Halifax upheld the complaint. It agreed that Mr F was given misleading information about 
when the March payment would be taken. It apologised that the direct debit could not be 
amended sooner, but it said that it wrote to Mr F and Mr F to give notice that the amendment 
would take place from 1 April. Halifax paid Mr F and Mr F £40 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr F and Mr F brought their complaint to our service. They 
dont think £40 fairly compensates them in the circumstances or truly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused. They say that because of Halifaxs actions, their finances have 
been affected and they had to utilise savings to cover the payments taken. To put things 
right theyre seeking £150 compensation to settle their complaint. 
An investigator looked into things and explained why he thought Halifax had settled Mr F and 
Mr Fs complaint fairly. He didnt think that Halifax needed to do anything more to put things 
right. Mr F and Mr F disagreed and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr F and Mr F have been waiting some time for a decision on their case.
I thank them for their continued patience.
Halifax has admitted it got things wrong. So, the issue I have to decide is whether the things 
it has done to put things right, including the amount of compensation it has offered, is fair 
and reasonable. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mr F and Mr F have said about how theyve been 
impacted as a result of Halifaxs actions and how they should be fairly compensated in the 
circumstances.
When making an award for compensation, I must decide whats fair and reasonable to both
sides involved, giving careful consideration to all the circumstances of this case. I also think
its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate
consumers - not punish organisations. 
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award
for distress and inconvenience is warranted and to what extent.
When Mr F and Mr F asked to change their payment due date, it was inevitable that theyd 
have two payments taken from their nominated bank account in close proximity. Mr F 
and Mr F say that they were expecting February and Marchs payments to be taken in close 
proximity  not March and Aprils. 
Halifax accepts it gave Mr F misleading information on the phone, and it has paid Mr F and 
Mr F £40 compensation to acknowledge the error. I cant reasonably hold Halifax 
responsible for any further impact described by Mr F and Mr F. Ill explain why.
Following the call that took place, Im persuaded that Mr F and Mr F were given the right 
information soon after, and they were provided with sufficient notice that their direct debit 
was in fact changing from 1 April.
Mr and Mr Fs request to change their payment due date was referred to Halifaxs 
processing department. I can see from Halifaxs records that Mr and Mr Fs account was 
updated with the new payment due date on 1 march and a letter confirming the change was 
sent to them on that day. While an actual copy of that letter isnt available, Im persuaded it 
contained the right information. I say that because it was recorded on Halifaxs system that it 
was too late to change Marchs payment. So logically, the letter could only have provided 
notice that the payment date would take effect from 1 April. 
I appreciate Mr F and Mr F feel its unfair to rely on a letter thats not available. Where the 
evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, Im required to reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Having done so, Im persuaded Mr F and Mr F had enough information to know their 
payments werent changing until April. 
Putting the letter to one side, Mr and Mr F ought to have also reasonably noticed that a large 
payment of almost £600 hadnt left their account in early March. 
Mr F and Mr F knew a payment was due that month and so it was likely being collected later 
in the month as per their existing arrangement. As explained by our investigator, theoretically 
those funds should still have been available as a payment was always due that month, 
regardless of the date it came out, unless of course Mr F and Mr F spent the funds 
elsewhere. Thats not something I can reasonably hold Halifax responsible for in the 
circumstances. When considering everything, Ive not seen enough to suggest that Halifax didnt process 
Mr F and Mr Fs request accordingly and within a reasonable timeframe. Halifax accepts it 
gave some misleading information in the initial call, but Im satisfied it did enough to put 
things right. 
In addition to the compensation paid, Halifax also offered Mr F and Mr F the option of a 
Payment Holiday to avoid making two payments within quick succession. This would have 
allowed them to make up the payment at a time that suited them. While I appreciate, they 
may not have wanted additional interest to accrue on their account, it would have avoided 
the financial impact theyve described. They chose not to take that option.
To conclude, Im persuaded Mr F and Mr F ought reasonably to have known theyd be 
making two payments in close proximity in March and April. For all the reasons Ive 
explained I cant reasonably hold Halifax responsible for the impact described by Mr and 
Mr F, so I wont be asking it to increase its compensation award in these circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman