DRN-3746305
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined his claim for damage caused by an 
escape of water and cancelled his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M bought home insurance with QIC through a comparison site when he moved into his 
home. The following year he renewed the policy without making any changes. Mr M claimed 
under the policy following an escape of water which caused significant damage to his home. 
QIC sent a first response assessor who reported that there was cracking to the walls and the 
house was in poor condition.
QIC declined Mr Ms claim and voided his policy because it said hed not made it aware of 
the poor condition of his property when he bought the insurance. It said when asked about 
cracking and the condition of the property when he bought the policy, hed given incorrect 
answers.
Mr M complained because he didnt think his home was in poor condition and he wasn't 
aware of any damp or cracking. He said the survey from when he bought the house the year 
before didnt mention those issues.
QIC agreed that the survey didnt mention the problems, so it said it wouldnt record the 
voidance on insurance databases. As Mr M hadnt purposely given incorrect answers, it also 
refunded his premium. 
However, Mr M remained unhappy because before QIC declined his claim, it had stripped 
out his carpets and flooring. That meant he was left in a worse position than before he made 
his claim. He wanted QIC to at least replace his flooring.
QIC said that it needed to strip the flooring to start the drying process, and it hadnt charged 
Mr M for that work, even though he didnt have a valid policy. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think QIC had done anything 
wrong by declining the claim and cancelling the policy. But she did think QIC was 
responsible for replacing or contributing to the cost of replacing the flooring. Our investigator 
also thought QIC should cover the cost of disposing of the floor coverings which Mr M had 
incurred.
QIC didnt agree. It said the floor would always have needed to be stripped out because it 
was damaged by the escape of water and to allow for drying.
Mr M didnt agree because his home wasnt in poor condition, and even if QIC still cancelled 
his policy, he thought it should pay for the damage it caused stripping out his flooring.
first provisional decision
I issued my first provisional decision in August 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Ive summarised it here.
QIC cancelled Mr Ms policy from the start because it said he gave incorrect answers in 
response to two clear questions about the condition of his property. When he made his claim 
for the escape of water, QIC said it wouldntve provided cover if Mr M had told it he had 
cracked walls and evidence of damp. 
When Mr M bought the house in 2020 he had a survey completed and QIC confirmed the 
survey didnt say anything about cracks in the walls or any issue with damp. I asked for a 
copy of that survey to see what QIC considered when reaching its decision, but I didnt 
receive it. As it was in Mr Ms favour anyway, I accepted QICs position that the survey didnt 
mention any evidence of damp or cracking.
I also took into consideration marketing literature that described the house as a well-
presented property, and photos taken by QICs loss adjuster which appeared to show 
peeling render and relatively small, wear and tear cracks low down in the render. But I 
thought it was fair to place more weight on the Home Buyers survey as an accurate 
reflection of the condition of the house when Mr M bought it and, subsequently, his policy. 
I thought it fair to say Mr M took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
bought his policy. Thats because he responded to QICs questions in such a way that 
reflected the marketing literature and the surveyors report from when he bought the house. 
And it was reasonable for him to think that thered been no significant change over the 
course of a year when he renewed his policy.  
Because QIC agreed the survey didnt mention damp or cracked walls, suggesting that Mr 
Ms home was not in poor condition, I considered it likely that QIC wouldve offered him 
cover. So, I didnt think it was reasonable to cancel his policy.
Given that I didnt think the policy shouldve been cancelled, my provisional decision was 
that QIC should reinstate Mr M's policy and reconsider his claim, including the floor 
coverings, in line with the original policy terms and conditions. 
Responses
QIC didnt agree with my provisional decision. It provided better quality photos of the back of 
Mr Ms home to support its surveyors opinion that the walls were cracked and damp, and 
likely in that condition before the escape of water. QIC felt strongly that Mr M hadnt made a 
fair presentation when he bought the policy, and it remained of the opinion that the policy 
should be cancelled, and the claim declined.
After I asked for it, Mr M provided a copy of the survey on which both he and QIC had relied 
during this dispute.In September 2022, I issued a second provisional decision explaining that I was minded not 
to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
my second provisional decision
The evidence previously unavailable to me casts a different light on the overall 
circumstances. 
Survey 
In my first provisional decision, I thought it was reasonable for Mr M to rely on the contents 
of the survey when he bought his policy. Thats still the case. But Im now aware that the 
survey was a simple mortgage valuation rather than a Home Buyers or structural survey.
The valuation describes the property as being in, an acceptable condition for lending 
purposes [and] reflects the fact that there is wear and tear and that maintenance, repair or 
upgrading will be required.
Further, the valuation says it was prepared to assess for loan security and it was NOT to 
advise you of whether you should purchase or to provide a schedule of repairs. If you require 
this you must arrange your own survey. This valuation report is not a Building (structural) 
Survey or Home Buyers Report.
So, this evidence shows that Mr M wouldve been aware that his property was in need of 
maintenance and repair, although the report didnt say what those repairs were.
Ive considered together the photos QIC provided showing the condition of the rear wall, the 
valuation report, QICs surveyors report, and Mr Ms confirmation that he hadnt carried out 
any repairs or maintenance to the rear wall. Having done so, Im persuaded that it wasn't a 
true presentation when Mr M replied no to the following question:
 
Within the last 10 years, has your property shown signs of cracking on the internal or 
external surface of an outside wall or party wall, whether this has been repaired or 
not? 
 
For that reason, I think it was reasonable for QIC to say it would never have offered cover if 
Mr M had answered yes to the question, meaning the policy would never have existed.
Under CIDRA, QIC is entitled to treat the policy as if it never existed and return Mr Ms 
premiums, which is what it did. Therefore, Im satisfied QICs actions were fair and 
reasonable.
Flooring
Going back to Mr Ms original complaint, he said QIC removed his flooring and left him to 
dispose of it. Im aware that QIC removed the flooring to dry out Mr Ms property before his 
claim was declined. During his complaint, QIC agreed to pay for the floor disposal costs he 
incurred on receipt of evidence. As the policy should never have existed, QIC wouldnt have 
been responsible for removing the flooring, drying out, or disposal, yet it has incurred these 
costs. And Mr M would always have needed to have this work done before starting repairs to 
the water damage. I wouldnt have required QIC to cover the flooring disposal costs, so I 
think its offer is fair. Therefore, I cant say that QIC caused Mr M any loss, here, because it 
paid for work to be done for which he wouldve been responsible.QIC also confirmed that it wouldnt record the voidance on the underwriting database, which 
means Mr M shouldnt be adversely affected by the cancelled policy. I think thats a fair offer.
Overall, in light of the new evidence, Im satisfied that QIC fairly declined Mr Ms claim and 
voided his policy in line with the outcomes available under CIDRA. I see no reason to require 
any further action of QIC.  
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
QIC had nothing further to add.
Mr M didnt agree because hed bought the policy in good faith, and without intention to 
deliberately mislead QIC. Even so, he doubted that QIC wouldve declined to offer cover had 
he answered the questions differently. He thought it wouldve offered cover at a higher 
premium, which he has offered to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked again at all the evidence, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I 
realise hell be disappointed, but Ill explain my reasons and address his recent comments.
Its agreed that the damp identified in Mr Ms home is not related to the escape of water 
which was the subject of his claim. The issue in dispute is whether Mr M answered the policy 
renewal questions correctly in the overall circumstances. And if not, would QIC have offered 
cover anyway.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
Mr M pointed out that its not necessary to have a Home Buyers survey to take out home 
insurance. He goes on to say that the valuation report wouldve likely made reference to 
damp or cracked walls if considered significant enough that insurance might be declined. Mr 
M said the valuation report and the sales literature support his position, which is that he took 
reasonable steps to answer the renewal questions correctly.
When I reached my first provisional decision, Id placed greater weight on an unseen report 
because both parties agreed it didnt mention damp and maintenance needs. But, once Id 
seen the report it was evident that it wasnt based on a survey which wouldve commented in 
depth on damp, cracked walls or other specific issues. Ive already quoted the relevant parts 
of the valuation report, which also clearly stated that maintenance and repairs were needed. 
Mr M confirmed he didnt carry out any repairs, so the condition of the wall would only have 
got worse by the time he renewed the policy.
So, based on this information, I think QIC could reasonably have expected Mr M to respond 
to the questions differently at renewal than he did when he first bought the policy. 
Mr M questioned the impartiality of the person who completed the report on behalf of QIC 
and its delay providing photos and the report. For clarification, QIC didnt provide new 
evidence. It sent me the same photos Id already seen but in a format which enabled me to see the detail better. The report was also the same one as that which Id seen before and 
included the first response contractors credentials. The report confirms that the contractor 
was a member of a relevant trade organisation which provides services independently of 
QIC. Therefore, I have no reason to doubt their impartiality.
Mr M said he didnt think QIC wouldve declined to offer insurance if hed said his walls were 
damp and cracked  he thinks it wouldve insured at a higher premium. So, hes offered to 
pay the extra premium. If QIC had said it wouldve offered a policy but based on higher 
premiums, Mr Ms suggestion wouldve been appropriate. But QIC provided evidence of 
underwriting criteria which confirmed it wouldve declined to offer cover. 
I cant provide that evidence here because its commercially sensitive information. However, 
I hope Mr M is reassured that I have seen the criteria and Im satisfied QIC wouldve 
declined cover.
Mr M was unhappy that a piece of evidence I asked QIC for (the valuation report), which he 
later provided, resulted in my change of decision. Had QIC presented the valuation report to 
me when I first asked, its likely I wouldve reached my final decision sooner and without the 
need to issue a provisional decision. While I understand Mr Ms frustration, the evidence is 
the same regardless of which party presented it to me, and my decision isnt affected by the 
presenting party.
In summary, Im satisfied that the evidence lends greater weight to QICs position that Mr 
Ms home was showing signs of damp and cracked walls at least when he renewed his 
policy. Hed been aware from the mortgage valuation report that maintenance and repairs 
were needed but he confirmed that he didnt complete any. While the escape of water didnt 
cause either of these problems, the evidence shows that QIC would never have offered the 
policy if Mr M had answered the renewal questions correctly.
Therefore, in line with CIDRA, the remedy available to QIC is to cancel the policy from the 
start and refund Mr Ms premium. Helpfully, QIC has said it wont record the policy 
cancellation on the insurance database, so Mr M shouldnt be affected when seeking to buy 
insurance in the future. 
Mr Ms original complaint was about the flooring that QIC removed from his home when 
drying it out after the escape of water. Ive already said its work that wouldve been done 
regardless. Here, it was at QICs expense, and one which it isnt seeking to recover. So, Im 
satisfied that theres nothing for QIC to put right in respect of Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decisions, I dont uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman