DRN-4110345
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Zurich Insurance PLC has turned down a cancellation claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S held an annual travel insurance policy, which was underwritten by Zurich. 
They were due to go abroad on holiday in September 2022. Their trip had previously been 
rescheduled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Unfortunately, prior to their planned departure, Mrs S tested positive for Covid-19 on a lateral 
flow test (LFT) which she had purchased. Therefore, Mr and Mrs S were unable to travel as 
planned and they had to cancel their trip. They made a cancellation claim on their policy.
However, Zurich turned down the claim. Thats because it didnt think Mr and Mrs S had 
provided sufficient evidence to support their claim. Mrs S hadnt registered the positive LFT 
result on the NHS website (or with another private provider) and neither had she obtained a 
medical certificate from her GP stating that it had been medically necessary for her to cancel 
the trip.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Zurichs decision and they complained. They said that due 
to a change in the governments rules after the policy had been taken out, positive results 
from LFTs which werent issued by the NHS couldnt be registered on the NHS website. 
They said that they werent eligible for NHS-issued tests. And they also said that their GP 
wouldnt see patients with Covid-19.
However, Zurich maintained its decision, although it did pay Mr and Mrs S £100 
compensation to reflect delays in it responding to their complaint. Remaining unhappy with 
Zurichs position, Mr and Mrs S asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. He accepted that they 
hadnt provided proof of claim in line with the policy terms. However, he noted that there was 
no way for Mr and Mrs S to have registered Mrs S positive result with the NHS. And he was 
persuaded that Mrs S hadnt been able to see her GP to obtain a medical certificate. So he 
felt Mr and Mrs S had provided reasonable substantiation of their claim. Therefore, he 
recommended that the claim should be settled in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Zurich disagreed. It maintained that Mr and Mrs S hadnt provided sufficient substantiation of 
their claim. It referred to another case which had been investigated by our service.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it was fair for Zurich to turn down Mr and Mrs S claim and Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs S policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I think 
Zurich treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
S contract with Zurich. The policy does provide cover for cancellation in the event of a 
policyholders illness. However, the cancellation section of the policy sets out a list of defined 
events which are specifically excluded from cover. One of these is:
Claims where a medical certificate has not been obtained from a medical practitioner, 
confirming that cancellation of the trip is medically necessary.
Page five of the policy also sets out Important Information about Covid-19. This states:
This policy only provides cover for Coronavirus related claims (meaning Covid-19 or SARS-
COV-2 or any mutation or variation of these) if:
-You need to cancel or cut short your trip because you or a member of your family or 
travelling party are medically diagnosed with Coronavirus; or personally instructed to 
isolate by an NHS service or medical professional.
Its common ground that Mrs S hasnt provided a medical certificate which indicates that she 
was medically diagnosed with Covid-19. Neither did she register a positive LFT result with 
the NHS website. On a strict interpretation of the policy terms then, Mrs S claim isnt 
covered. However, I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their 
application produces an unfair result. And thats the case here, for reasons Ill explore 
further.
Mr and Mrs S have provided a photo of three positive LFTs, which were taken alongside the 
photo page of Mrs S passport. As such then, I find this persuasive evidence that Mrs S did 
have symptoms of Covid-19 and tested positive for the virus. 
During earlier stages of the Covid-19 pandemic, LFT kits were issued as standard for free to 
most households by the NHS and results could be registered on the NHS website. However, 
by the time Mrs S developed Covid-19 symptoms, LFT kits were no longer available as 
standard and were only free to certain, eligible groups of people  including those who 
worked in health or social care, or who would be entitled to treatment for Covid-19. Mrs S 
says she didnt fall within these groups and therefore, she wasnt eligible for free, NHS-
issued tests. Instead, she had to purchase tests privately. Privately-bought LFTs couldnt  
and indeed, still cant  be registered on the NHS website. This meant that Mrs S was 
unable to notify the NHS of a positive result or provide Zurich of evidence of such a 
registration.
And Mr and Mrs S have provided clear and consistent testimony that their GP wouldnt see 
patients suspected of having or whod tested positive for Covid-19. This is in line with NHS 
guidance for patients whod tested positive to remain at home unless they needed urgent 
medical care. I also find it entirely plausible that Mrs S GP was unlikely to have agreed to 
see her to provide a medical certificate which certified a definite diagnosis of Covid-19, when 
three LFTs had already shown a positive result and when such a consultation may have 
posed risks to the GP and other patients. It seems to me then that there was little Mrs S 
could do to provide evidence a medical diagnosis of Covid-19 to Zurich.In the circumstances, I find Mr and Mrs S version of events and their evidence persuasive 
and credible. I think the photographic evidence, together with Mr and Mrs S testimony, 
alongside records of the NHS LFT eligibility and reporting processes at the time, is sufficient 
evidence to fairly and reasonably substantiate this claim. Given the NHS still advises 
patients with Covid-19 to remain at home for five days after a positive test, I think there is 
enough evidence to show that Mrs S was suffering from an illness and that it was medically 
necessary for her and Mr S to cancel their trip. On that basis then, I dont think it was fair or 
reasonable for Zurich to turn down their claim.
Zurich has referred to an outcome weve issued on another case. However, were not bound 
by precedent and my role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in the individual and 
specific circumstances of a complaint. Each case turns on its own specific facts. And as Ive 
explained, I find that in the circumstances of this complaint, it was unfair for Zurich to turn 
down Mr and Mrs S claim. Therefore, it follows that Im satisfied that the fair outcome to this 
complaint is for Zurich to now settle Mr and Mrs S claim, in line with the policy terms, 
together with interest. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Zurich Insurance PLC to settle Mr and Mrs S claim, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. I also direct Zurich to add interest to the settlement at an annual 
rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
If Zurich considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs S a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman