DRN-3438043
The complaint
Mr G and Ms D complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined their claim 
for accidental damage to their fridge freezer on their contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G and Ms D had contents insurance, including contents accidental damage, with Aviva. 
Mr G said he had to move his fridge freezer when he was having some work done. In doing 
so, he said the fridge freezer fell and hit the worktop. After this, he said the fridge stopped 
keeping things cold, and he realised the fan had stopped working. So he reported the 
accident on 7 February 2022. 
Aviva sent an engineer to assess the damage. But the first visit couldnt be arranged until 
four days after they were notified of the claim. They said that their engineer got the job on 8 
February 2022 but then couldnt contact the policyholders until 10 February 2022. 
Aviva declined the claim. They said this was because in the engineer's professional opinion 
this was a normal breakdown which wouldnt have been caused by pushing the appliance 
forwards. They said that as the appliance had stopped working due to wear and tear, which 
wasnt covered under their policy, they were declining the claim. Aviva told Mr G and Ms D 
that they could get their own report on the cause of the breakdown if they wished. When Mr 
G and Ms D said this wouldnt be possible, Aviva agreed to send a second engineer to 
review the cause of the breakdown.
Mr G and Ms D were unhappy that their claim had been denied due to mechanical issues. 
They were also unhappy as they said the engineer had told them it was their fault that their 
fridge freezer wasnt working. They also felt the engineers visit couldve been arranged 
more quickly. And said that theyd made lots of calls to try to arrange the visit. Mr G and Ms 
D felt the fridge freezer had been broken after it had fallen and hit the worktop. And therefore 
that it should be covered under the accidental damage section of their policy. So they 
complained to Aviva. 
Aviva issued their final response to the complaint on 8 March 2022. They said their 
engineers had inspected the fridge freezer twice. And that theyd confirmed that the fridge 
freezer had failed due to wear and tear. They apologised for the missed call backs and the 
incorrect information Mr G and Ms D had been given about timescales. And offered £50 
compensation for the communication issues. They also offered to consider the freezer food 
loss. But said that Mr G and Mrs D had declined their offer.
Mr G and Ms D were unhappy with Avivas response. So they brought their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt consider their complaint should be upheld. He felt that Aviva had 
enough evidence from their engineers to support their decision to decline the claim due to 
wear and tear. And, although he accepted Mr G and Ms Ds description of what had 
happened to the fridge freezer, he didnt have any evidence to link what had happened in the 
accident to the damage. Our investigator felt that the compensation Aviva had offered for the 
poor communication was fair under the circumstances.
Mr G and Ms D didnt agree with our investigator. They said theyd still not received the 
report they said Aviva had promised them. They said they felt that something was being 
hidden from them so that Aviva didnt have to pay their claim. 
Our investigator told Mr G and Ms D that he would ask Aviva to send the report. He asked 
Mr G and Ms D if they were able to get a report on how the issues with the fridge freezer 
were caused. Mr G told him the appliance had been disposed of, so this wasnt possible. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know this will be 
very disappointing to Mr G and Ms D. Ill explain the reasons for my decision. 
Mr G and Ms D consider that their contents accidental damage cover should mean that their 
claim for their broken fridge freezer should be accepted. They say this because theyve 
explained that they noticed the fridge had stopped keeping things cold after theyd moved 
the appliance and it had fallen against a worktop. So I can see why they felt the appliance 
had been accidentally damaged. And I understand why they felt the damage shouldve been 
covered under their contents accidental cover.
Mr G and Ms Ds policy defines accidental damage on page 7 of their policy booklet as: 
Damage caused suddenly and unexpectedly by an outside force. 
Page 33 of the policy booklet goes on to describe the cover provided under the contents 
accidental damage section. It says:
We will provide cover for all other accidental damage to contents and business equipment 
while in the home that is not covered by the Contents, Starter Contents and Student 
Contents Covers.
It then includes a list of things it will not cover. This includes:
electrical or mechanical breakdown; and damage caused by wear and tear or anything that 
happens gradually.
Aviva sent engineers to look at the damaged appliance before and after it was defrosted. 
Both engineers reported that the damage was related to mechanical issues. And they said 
they couldnt link the damage theyd reported to the accident Mr G and Ms D had had with 
the appliance.
The first engineer reported that the defrost element was failing on the appliance. He said this 
was causing an ice build-up around the fan, which was subsequently causing that to seize 
and blow the thermal cut out, whilst also freezing the water bottle which sits directly in front 
of the evaporator cover. He reported that the liner was also cracked, due to the expansion 
and contraction of the ice, which he said was a common issue on this model.
The second engineer reported that there was a crack in the lining and the defrost heater had failed. He said that in addition to these faults, there was also a system leak which had 
become apparent since the defrost. In his opinion, as in the opinion of the first engineer, the 
issues theyd identified were due to normal breakdown. And they didnt consider that the 
faults had been caused when the appliance had been moved and had fallen.
I acknowledge that Mr G and Ms D havent been able to provide their own report on the 
damage. So Ive considered whether Aviva had enough information to support their decision 
to decline the claim due to wear and tear. 
I understand that Mr G said that one of the engineers told him that knocking the fridge 
freezer had caused the damage. But the engineer has denied saying this. And its not what 
the report said. Based on the information the engineers reported to Aviva, Im satisfied that 
they were aware of what Mr G had thought had caused the damage. And that they were able 
to investigate the damage with his view of what had caused the damage in mind. But they 
reported that they werent able to link the damage to the accident Mr G and Ms D had 
described. 
As the evidence from two professional engineers is that the fridge freezer wasnt broken by 
the accident, but had failed due to wear and tear, Im satisfied that Aviva fairly declined the 
claim. I say this because the engineers were able to assess the damage knowing what had 
happened to the fridge freezer, but they were unable to evidence that the appliance had 
failed because of the accident. Instead, they found evidence that the appliance had failed 
due to wear and tear. Therefore, Im satisfied that Aviva fairly declined the claim under the 
contents accidental damage section of the policy. This doesnt mean that I doubt Mr G and 
Ms Ds explanation for how they felt the appliance was damaged. It just means Im more 
persuaded  based on the engineers findings  that the appliance had failed for different 
reasons.  
Ill now consider whether the £50 compensation Aviva offered for poor communication was 
fair. 
From the contact notes Aviva have provided, I can see that Mr G was told that he would be 
contacted within 24 hours", despite this not being the agreed service standard. The actual 
service standard was within 24-48 working hours. Aviva acknowledged that Mr G and Ms D 
had been given timeframes they couldnt provide. I can also see that Mr G and Ms D were 
promised that the report they were waiting to see would be ready but that theyve had to 
chase that report. Aviva apologised to Mr G and Ms D for the poor communication. And 
offered £50 compensation. 
I also understand that Mr G felt that Aviva couldve sent an engineer round sooner than they 
did. I can see that he felt that he couldnt claim for the food in his appliance until the 
engineers inspection had been completed. But from what Ive seen, Aviva sent the engineer 
at the first available appointment after theyd been able to make contact with Mr G and Ms D. 
I also note that Aviva  in their final response letter - offered to consider the freezer food 
loss. But said that Mr G and Mrs D declined this offer. From what Ive seen, Aviva didnt 
cause any delays, or give incorrect information, about this part of the complaint. 
While I appreciate that Avivas poor communication wouldve been frustrating, I can see that 
theyve taken steps to put things right. The information Mr G was given was incorrect, but not 
vastly different from the correct information. Overall, I consider that Aviva took reasonable 
steps to put things right when they offered Mr G and Ms D £50 compensation for the poor 
communication. Therefore I wont be asking them to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman