DRN-2458278
The complaint
Mrs R complains that her interest-only mortgage with Mortgages Plc was unsuitable for a 
number of reasons. The mortgage term has expired with an unpaid balance. Mrs R asks that 
shes given time to take legal and financial advice to see if she can remain in her home.
What happened
Mrs R took out a mortgage with Mortgages Plc in 2007, with her ex-partner. The mortgage 
was recommended by a broker. Its on an interest only basis and the term expired in 2019 
with an unpaid balance of about £150,000. Mrs R says the mortgage wasnt suitable 
because:
The value of her property was about £145,000, but this was inflated in the mortgage 
application forms meaning Mortgages Plc lent more than it should have, leaving her in 
negative equity.
No-one checked she had a repayment strategy. The broker said she could switch to a 
repayment mortgage or take out another interest only mortgage.
She wasnt told about the consequences of self-certifying income for a mortgage.
No-one checked the information provided was correct. Her ex-partner exercised financial 
control over her. She signed the completed forms provided by the broker.
Mrs R says she asked Mortgage Plc for a new interest-only mortgage when the term expired 
and this is when she realised she had a problem. Mortgages Plc said it no longer offers 
mortgages and it wont extend the term. Mrs R is unable to get a mortgage elsewhere due to 
her age and income. Shes living on a state pension. Mrs R says she used savings to pay 
the mortgage interest until they ran out. 
Mrs R says her ex-partner was abusive and doesnt contribute to the mortgage. She says he 
was responsible for their financial arrangements. Shes taking legal action to enable her to 
re-mortgage in her sole name, or sell the property. She asks that Mortgages Plc freezes 
interest and holds recovery action while she sorts matters out.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties, setting out why I didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint 
about how Mortgages Plc dealt with her mortgage. 
Mrs R didnt agree. She said Id misunderstood that her interest was being paid by the DWP, 
for which I apologise. She clarified the legal action being taken against her ex-partner and 
her plans to repay the mortgage. 
Mrs R said shed received grants to improve her property, which will increase its value. She 
said her solicitor had made progress with the legal action, which is to get an order for sale so 
that she can take out a sale and rent back scheme with the provider paying 100% of the 
property value. Mrs R would then rent the property for life and her local housing authority 
has confirmed it would help with the rent. Mrs R says this would allow her to re-start her 
business from the property. Mrs R asked that Mortgages Plc refund interest and waive future 
interest as the increasing debt risks her being able to take out a sale and rent back scheme. 
Mortgages Plc provided copies of its recent correspondence with Mrs R. This includes an 
offer to hold recovery action until June 2021 to give Mrs R time to repay the balance. It didnt 
offer to freeze interest and recommended Mrs R maintain payments if she can. It said it 
wouldnt apply arrears fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mrs Rs mortgage was recommended by a broker. At that time, it was the responsibility of 
the broker to check the mortgage it recommended was suitable and affordable. I wont be 
looking into Mrs Rs concerns about the suitability of the mortgage here: thats the subject of 
a separate complaint.
Mrs R says some of the information in the mortgage application is incorrect. I dont think 
though that Mortgage Plc would have known this. While Mrs R says her ex-partner exercised 
financial control, I havent seen anything to suggest Mortgages Plc knew, or should have 
suspected this.
Mrs R says the main part of her complaint is that her property was overvalued, meaning 
Mortgages Plc lent more than it should have done. A valuation was provided by a chartered 
valuation surveyor. He said the applicants estimated valuation was high and not supported 
by evidence. He gave a value of £185,000, which is the valuation amount set out in the 
mortgage offer. The mortgage loan was about £140,000.
Mortgages Plc relied on the information provided to it  as it was entitled to do  when 
deciding whether to lend. I dont think it acted unfairly.
What should happen now?
When the mortgage term expired in 2019 there was an unpaid balance of about £150,000. 
This increased to about £157,000 by January 2021, which includes arrears of about £8,000. 
Mrs R and her ex-partner borrowed the money and, in fairness, they do have to pay it back. 
Mrs R and her ex-partner have separated and hes not living at the property.
Mrs R says a repayment mortgage isnt affordable for her. Because her ex-partner is on the 
property title she cant sell the property (or take out a sale and rent back scheme) unless a 
court grants her an order for sale. 
Mrs R says Mortgages Plc hasnt done enough to help. She asked it for a term extension on 
an interest only basis; to remove arrears charges and adverse data from her credit file; to 
reduce the interest rate; and to transfer the mortgage into her sole name.Extending the term: 
I think it was fair for Mortgages Plc to decline to extend the term on an interest only basis. 
This isnt clearly in Mrs Rs best interests. At the end of the extended term its likely shed be 
in the same position, with limited options to repay the debt. And, as Mrs R cant pay the 
monthly interest, its likely the debt secured on the property would increase, reducing her 
equity and leaving her with fewer options. 
Transfer of equity: 
I cant see that removing Mrs Rs ex-partner from the mortgage account would be in her best 
interests. She would still need her ex-partners consent to a sale or re-mortgage while hes 
on the property title (until she has an order for sale). Mrs R would be solely responsible for 
repaying the debt in the meantime, and for paying any shortfall if the property is sold. This 
wouldnt put her in a better position.
Arrears fees and credit reports:
Mortgages Plc agreed to remove monthly arrears fees from Mrs Rs account. It says it wont 
apply arrears fees if shes unable to make payments up to June 2021. I think this is fair. I 
also think its fair for Mortgages Plc to report arrears on Mrs Rs credit file: this correctly 
records that Mrs R hasnt been able to maintain monthly payments. 
Freezing the interest rate:
Mortgages Plc offered the mortgage loan on the basis Mrs R and her ex-partner would pay 
interest, as is usual. Mrs R is in financial difficulty and Id expect Mortgages Plc to treat her 
fairly. This doesnt necessarily mean it has to reduce or freeze interest. 
In fairness, I should say here that while Mortgages Plc hasnt frozen interest, it offered other 
concessions. Mortgages Plc allowed Mrs R time to seek independent advice about her 
situation and options. It offered arrangements to pay and a payment holiday. A payment 
holiday is an agreed break in making payments  it is better referred to as payment deferral. 
Interest can still be applied to the account, and does have to be paid at a later time. 
Based on the information Mrs R provided before I issued my provisional decision, I thought it 
was unlikely shed be able to re-finance the mortgage within a reasonable time. Mrs R 
provided a valuation of her property with a price range of £150,000 to £160,000. The 
mortgage balance is about £157,000, and there are two other debts secured on the property 
which appear to have a balance of about £10,000. While Mrs R says these are her ex-
partners debts they might have to be repaid before a re-financing can complete. 
Added to this, Mrs R couldnt sell the property or re-finance the mortgage until she had a 
court order for sale, and there wasnt a clear time frame for this. In the circumstances I didnt 
think it was fair to require Mortgages Plc to freeze interest while Mrs R tried to refinance the 
mortgage.
Since then, Mrs R provided further information about the steps shes taking to repay the 
mortgage. Mrs R provided part of a letter from her solicitor saying she expects court 
proceedings to conclude within 4 to 6 months. While Mrs R doesnt have a timescale for the 
work to the property, from what shes said I think it could reasonably be completed by June. 
Mrs R provided an email from an estate agent recommending she market the property for 
sale at just under £200,000. The date of the valuation isnt clear: Im assuming it was late 
2020.If Mrs Rs property was sold for an amount between £160,000 and £200,000, Mortgages Plc 
would be repaid what its owed, including interest and arrears. 
Mortgages Plc offered to hold recovery action until June 2021, to give Mrs R time to obtain a 
court order for sale and complete the work to her house. In doing so, Mortgages Plc is taking 
several risks  that a court will grant an order for sale to Mrs R, that property values wont fall 
and that Mrs R will be able to obtain finance to repay the mortgage. 
Based on the information Mrs R provided, if her plan succeeds shell be able to repay the 
mortgage, remain in her home and have some equity left (even if Mortgages Plc applies 
interest in the meantime). This will put her in a better position, and I think it was fair for 
Mortgages Plc to give Mrs R time to take these steps. I must be fair to both parties here. The 
mortgage term expired in late 2019. While Mrs R has a clear strategy to repay the mortgage, 
the steps she needs to take arent straightforward, and the outcome isnt certain. By holding 
action until June 2021, Mortgages Plc is giving her an opportunity to achieve the outcome 
she wants. I dont think its fair to also require Mortgages Plc to freeze interest. 
The regulator issued guidance in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Its current guidance 
says that absent exceptional circumstances no-one should have their home repossessed 
before 1 April 2021. Given that Mortgages Plc has already said it will hold action until June 
2021 this doesnt affect matters now. However, Mortgages Plc should take current and any 
future guidance issued by the regulator into account. 
Mrs R should continue to keep Mortgages Plc informed about the steps shes taking to repay 
the debt. Hopefully both the legal action and the work to Mrs Rs property will progress and 
shell be able to repay the mortgage. Id expect Mortgages Plc to treat Mrs R fairly while she 
takes these steps. But, ultimately, if Mrs R and her ex-partner arent able to repay the 
mortgage, Mortgages Plc is entitled to take possession as a last resort.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman