DRN-2924753
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as E, complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC handled its 
application for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme.
Es director, Mr K, brings the complaint on the companys behalf. 
What happened
E approached Lloyds for a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) of £500,000 in 
May 2020. After an initial conversation with the bank, Mr K submitted a business plan along 
with the companys accounts in support of the application. 
Lloyds declined Es request. In its response of 23 June, Lloyds said that it wasnt happy to 
lend E the amount requested as:
The loan wasnt affordable for E based on the companys performance in the 
previous year;
The financial projections within the proposal werent backed up by contracts, orders 
or invoices;
Mr K was unable to provide much in the way of security for the loan;
Connected businesses had potential strike off notices against them and there were 
concerns over Mr Ks personal credit profile;
The proposal wouldnt fall within the CBIL criteria (by exceeding 25% of Es annual 
turnover); and
The purpose of the government-backed loan schemes was to provide essential 
critical funding as opposed to funding growth opportunities.
Mr K accepts Lloyds decision, but says it misled him. He says he was assured during his 
initial conversation with the bank that the business plan would be used to reach a decision, 
and on this basis invested a lot of time and resource to pull it together  only to find that the 
decision was based on other factors, and which meant that the plan need not have been 
provided in the first place. 
Lloyds says it properly assessed Es CBIL application, basing its decision on tangible 
evidence including past financial information and proof of upcoming contracts and invoices. 
It doesnt agree that it misled Mr K in any way during the process.
Our investigator reviewed Es complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She thought the 
banks decision to decline the CBIL application had been reasonable. And having listened to 
the call between Mr K and Lloyds in May 2020, she didnt think the bank had misled Mr K. 
She noted that it had explained how it would assess the request, indicated that it was 
unlikely to be approved on the basis of the plan and only invited the submission of the 
business plan as it was  even if unfinished  so as not to waste Mr Ks time.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He said that the bank had lied about the process, 
having promised to look at all the documentation but only basing the decision on Es debt to 
income ratio. So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint and it was passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has stressed that his complaint isnt about Lloyds decision to decline Es CBIL 
application  a decision which he accepts as correct. Rather it is about what the bank told 
him about the process, which he says misled him into spending time and resource on the 
business plan. But having reviewed what both parties have provided us  including a 
recording of the initial phone conversation between Mr K and Lloyds  Ive not found that he 
was misled or misinformed. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
I can appreciate why, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr K feels there was little value in 
providing the business plan or perhaps even applying for the CBIL at all. The bank didnt 
think the loan would be affordable for E, a decision it based on Es past financial 
performance  so arguably it wouldve been possible for the bank to have assessed this on 
the strength of Es accounts (in conjunction with details of the prospective loan), without 
reviewing its business plan. 
However, this wasnt the sole factor in Lloyds decision. It looked at the proposal as a 
whole  including the business plan that Mr K provided, in which it found that there was 
nothing tangible to support the projected figures. The banks decision could have been 
different if the plan had included, for example, contracts, orders or other evidence of an in-
principle agreement. Reviewing the business plan only gave E a better chance of getting 
agreement to its request. So I think this was reasonable.
Ive also considered how Lloyds explained the process to Mr K and whether it misled him. 
But having listened to the phone conversation in question, I think the bank explained things 
clearly and gave him sufficient information on which to decide whether  and how  to 
proceed. 
Lloyds representative explained that applications would be reviewed on their individual 
merits, including by looking at the relevant business plan and financial modelling. But  in 
attempting to manage Mr Ks expectations regarding a loan of £500,000  also stressed on a 
number of occasions that there were a number of affordability considerations and that while 
a companys historical performance wasnt the only basis for its lending decisions, it was a 
major factor. The representative went on to be more explicit in this regard as the call 
progressed:
If you want my honest opinion  if were basing it on projections, were going 
to struggle... especially if were talking about 250, 300, 400, 500 thousand 
pounds.
And later:
What I want you to be realistic with as well is  youre a company with two 
years filed accounts. Youre looking to grow, which is great. Do I think 
realistically [£500,000] is something that will be approved through this 
scheme? I think youll struggle, if Im being honest with you.
It was agreed that as a way forward, Mr K would send in Es accounts along with the 
business plan  with a view to the bank assessing how it could help E with any funding, even if not the full £500,000 it was seeking. But the representative did not say that the business 
plan was a requirement. Rather that  as it was apparent that Mr K had already produced it  
he simply send what he already had available, and specifically that he ought not worry about 
adding to it at this stage:
Send me over the last two years filed accounts, alongside the business plan 
and everything else that youve put together and got. If you havent put 
together everything, just send me what youve got at the minute  because I 
dont want you to go through huge amounts of effort until Ive checked the 
initial information.
So while I can understand Mr Ks disappointment and frustration if he spent time and 
resources on developing the business plan to support the CBIL application, I dont think its 
fair to say that this was down to anything Lloyds did wrong. I think the bank was clear on 
how the application would be assessed, including that the business plan as currently 
available could be submitted and taken into consideration. The bank also made it clear that 
the loan E was seeking was unlikely to be approved unless affordability could be 
demonstrated. It was then up to Mr K to decide whether to proceed, and in doing so whether 
to develop the business plan any further before submitting it. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr K has said, including his belief that Lloyds didnt 
actually look at the business plan at all despite assuring him that it would. But when 
explaining its decision, the bank set out that the lack of supporting evidence for the 
projections was one of its reasons. So I think it considered the information that Mr K 
provided, as it said it would.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman