DRN-2697308
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Society of Lloyd's declined Mrs Rs claim against their travel 
insurance policy.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs R had an annual travel insurance policy with Lloyds   
Whilst they were on a trip, Mrs R had some dental treatment as a crown broke on her 
lower right tooth. Mrs R made a claim against their policy. Lloyds declined the claim. It 
relied on an exclusion in the policy.
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which 
provides cover for emergency dental treatment overseas which the treating dentist 
certifies is solely required for the immediate relief of sudden and acute pain. The 
policy excludes dental treatment not required for the immediate relief of acute pain, 
such as crowns and cosmetic dentistry. 
In the medical certificate dated 9 December 2019, the treating overseas dentist said 
that Mrs Rs old crown was broken and there was no pain. The treating dentist said 
that Mrs Rs old crown was removed, and that Mrs R had root canal treatment and a 
ceramic crown fitted.
I dont think that Lloyds was at fault in relying on the content of that medical 
certificate and concluding that the treatment Mrs R had wasnt for the immediate 
relief of sudden and acute pain. So, I dont think it acted unfairly in declining Mrs Rs 
claim.
I appreciate that Mrs R says that her broken crown cut her cheek when she spoke or 
ate, and she was worried about further injury and infection. I can quite understand 
why Mrs R wanted to have the dental work done but not all dental work is covered by 
the policy. For example, the policy doesnt cover dental work intended to prevent 
future harm. Considering everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining Mrs Rs claim.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman