DRN-3691515
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked his bank account and placed a fraud 
marker against his name causing serious repercussions for him.   
What happened
Mr S had a personal account with HSBC.
In January 2021, two payments totalling just over £2,000 were made into Mr Ss account 
from another bank, which I will refer to as Bank B. 
On 9 February 2021, Bank B contacted HSBC, to say that the two payments were 
fraudulent. And that its customer, Mr P, had been the victim of a scam. Following this 
notification HSBC blocked Mr Ss account whilst it looked into the concerns raised by Bank B 
and how Mr S was operating his account. 
On the same day, HSBC wrote to Mr S to let him know it had blocked his account and asked 
him to explain to the bank why hed received the two payments. The bank asked him to 
come into a branch and provide evidence of his entitlement to the payments. 
On 11 February 2021, Mr S called HSBC to complain that his account had been blocked. 
During the call he told the bank that hed spoken to Mr P and that he had retracted the fraud 
report. HSBC didnt make any enquiries to confirm this with Bank B and told 
Mr S that he still needed to come into a branch with evidence of his entitlement to the 
payments. 
On 22 February 2021, Mr S rang HSBC to say that hed accidentally sent £600 to his 
blocked account instead of to an account he had with another bank, which meant he couldnt 
access the funds. He asked HSBC to release the money to him, but due to the block on the 
account HSBC declined. Mr S made further calls to HSBC to try and resolve things, but each 
time HSBC said he needed to provide the information it had requested regarding the two 
payments.
On 1 March 2021, HSBC emailed Mr S and told him that it was still conducting its 
investigation and again asked him to go into a branch and demonstrate he was entitled to 
the two payments made into his account from Mr P. In response, on 2 March 2021, Mr S 
sent HSBC an email attaching a copy of the letter to from Bank B to Mr P dated 17 February 
2021, which confirmed Mr P had withdrawn his fraud claim. 
HSBC says Bank B never notified them it was stopping its fraud investigation. And it never 
made any enquiries with Bank B about the scam report. So, on 9 March 2021 it went ahead 
and recorded a fraud marker against Mr Ss name with CIFAS, the Credit Industry Fraud 
Avoidance System. 
Mr S complained to HSBC. He said that HSBC shouldnt have placed a fraud marker against 
him and that hed explained to the bank at the time that Mr P had been acting in bad faith 
when he lodged the fraud claim against him. He also pointed out that he had provided HSBC 
with evidence that the fraud claim against him had in fact been withdrawn before HSBC 
decided to record the marker. So, he says HSBC treated him unfairly. In response, HSBC 
said it hadnt done anything wrong when it placed the marker against Mr S.
Unhappy with this response Mr S brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Before reaching his view, he contacted Bank 
B for more information about Mr Ps fraud claim. And made further enquiries regarding the 
circumstances that led to the fraud report being withdrawn. Bank B told the investigator that 
Mr P had contacted them on 10 February 2021 to withdraw his fraud claim against Mr S. And 
it provided the investigator with a copy of the letter it had sent to Mr P confirming this.
The investigator sent the letter to HSBC. Following this HSBC agreed to remove the CIFAS 
marker it had recorded against Mr S. It agreed to do this in July 2022. However, due to an 
internal resourcing issue this wasnt done until 18 August 2022.
The investigator reviewed all the information and concluded that HSBC should have done 
more investigation before it placed the marker against Mr Ss name and said there were 
delays in removing the marker. He recommended HSBC pay Mr S £300 compensation for 
the trouble and upset the marker had caused him. HSBC agreed. Mr S disagreed. He said 
the amount of compensation offered doesnt adequately reflect the amount of stress, upset 
and inconvenience he and his family have suffered as a result of HSBC placing a fraud 
marker against his name. He explained that as a result of the marker being in place, hed 
had several bank accounts closed and struggled to open other bank accounts. 
Mr S also said that his health had been badly impacted as a result of spending time on the 
phone with HSBC trying to sort things out, which he says hed found very stressful. Mr S 
says after extensive tests he was eventually diagnosed with a minor heart condition that had 
been brought on by stress. After years of relatively good health and fitness, Mr S feels this 
was as a direct result of his dealings with HSBC and the appalling way in which he says the 
bank treated him.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
block of account
Mr S says HSBC shouldnt have blocked his account and treated him unfairly when it 
refused to allow him access to £600 that hed mistakenly paid into his blocked account.
HSBC restricted Mr Ss account whilst it looked into the concerns expressed to it by Bank B 
about payments hed received into his account. Having looked at all the evidence, I dont 
believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for HSBC to have blocked Mr Ss account. 
Fraud is a serious matter, and one way banks can help to tackle fraudulent payments is by 
restricting accounts when allegedly fraudulent payments are received into them. Thats in 
line with what most banks would do in the same situation. And it enabled HSBC to consider 
how best to react to the report it had received from the other bank.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss account also permit HSBC to block an account and ask 
Mr S to provide information about payments made into his account. So, whilst I accept this 
caused Mr S inconvenience, I cant say HSBC treated him unfairly when it blocked his 
account. In reaching this conclusion Ive also kept in mind that at the time Mr S appears to have had at least one other bank account available for him to use. So, I think the impact on 
him would have been reduced.
Cifas marker
The CIFAS database used by the financial services industry is an important safeguard 
against fraud. Where a company suspects fraud its not unreasonable for it to share that 
information with other firms to prevent further fraud.
The marker that HSBC recorded against Mr S is intended to record that theres been a 
misuse of facility  in this case using an account to receive fraudulent funds. But there are 
significant consequences for individuals if markers are wrongly recorded against them. So 
CIFAS requires that its members only make a record where there is clear, relevant and 
rigorous evidence of fraud that could be reported to the police or other authorities (whether 
or not a report has actually been made). CIFAS principles also say that the business must 
have carried out checks of a sufficient depth meet the burden of proof set by CIFAS. 
HSBC says it loaded the marker because it had received a scam report relating to funds 
Mr S had received, which hed then spent. And because Mr S hadnt provided them with 
evidence of his entitlement to the funds when it had asked him to do so. I accept that Mr S 
didnt comply with HSBCs requests. But what he did do was to provide HSBC with evidence 
that the fraud claim had been withdrawn, which was significant information given the fraud 
report is what led to the CIFAS marker being applied. 
I havent seen any evidence that Bank B contacted HSBC to let them know that Mr P had 
withdrawn his fraud claim against Mr S. But I cant hold HSBC responsible for the actions of 
another bank. However, I would have expected HSBC to have reviewed the letter Mr S sent 
to them. But I havent seen any evidence that the bank did so. I also think that the letter 
should have prompted HSBC to contact Bank B so that it could carry out checks to establish 
whether or not Mr S (as the original report claimed) had received fraudulent funds. 
I think this would have been a reasonable course of action for HSBC to take. Especially 
given Mr S consistently told HSBC the fraud claim had been withdrawn and had provided 
evidence to support this. So, in this particular case, Im not satisfied that HSBC carried out 
sufficient checks to satisfy the burden of proof required to apply the CIFAS marker. Taking 
everything that into account, Im not satisfied that HSBC has provided enough evidence for 
me to conclude that it was fair to say the standard was met.
After our investigator contacted HSBC and told it about the enquiries hed made with Bank B 
Im pleased to see HSBC agreed to remove the marker on 5 July 2022. However, the marker 
wasnt removed until 18 August 2022.  The investigator asked HSBC about the delays. In 
response, HSBC has said that the delay was due to unforeseen issues. I accept that 
businesses have administrative processes to complete and requests which require approval. 
But unfortunately, HSBC havent told us why it took as long as it did to remove the marker 
after it had agreed to do so.  So, in the absence of any explanation from HSBC to the 
contrary, I cant be satisfied that it treated Mr S fairly and reasonably.
Mr S has written comprehensively about the impact of the CIFAS marker being recorded 
against his name had on him and his family. Hes provided evidence that he had more than 
one bank account closed and says he had several applications to open accounts refused 
after the marker was applied. Hes also told us about how his health was impacted.
From what M S said and the evidence hes provided I dont doubt that the marker recorded 
by HSBC has impacted on him. Its caused him a good deal of worry and upset. And the 
bank should pay compensation to him for not meeting the industry standards when applying the CIFAS marker. In the circumstances, I agree with investigator that £300 is fair and 
reasonable compensation to pay in reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr S. I appreciate that Mr S strongly feels that his medical condition was caused by the 
stress of HSBC applying the marker to his name. But I have to tell Mr S that the evidence 
hes provided doesnt support that. Im not a medical expert, but I am aware that medical 
conditions such as Mr Ss are often caused by a number of complicated factors and I dont 
think it would be fair to hold HSBC responsible for Mr Ss health problems.
Ive also kept in mind that it appears Mr S was having a number of issues with other banks 
which were not directly related to the marker applied by HSBC. But instead were based on 
how he was operating those accounts. And regardless of the outcome of those issues, 
based on the information available to me Im not satisfied that all of the issues Mr S was 
facing with other banks were caused by HSBCs decision to record a marker against him. I 
note too at the time the marker was recorded Mr S had at least one other bank account to 
use for at least a number of months following this complaint. 
I acknowledge that Mr S has said that HSBCs actions have caused his family as a whole 
significant stress. I can appreciate that this may well have been the case, but this complaint 
is being brought by Mr S, not by other members of his family. And I cant make an award to 
reflect the distress others may have suffered. So, whilst I appreciate Mr S will be 
disappointed, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more. 
In summary, having considered all the circumstances of this complaint, including the events 
that led to the marker being applied and wider circumstances that led to it being removed, 
Im satisfied that HSBC should pay Mr S compensation for the trouble and upset hes 
suffered. I consider £300 is reasonable to reflect whats happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, to put things right HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr S £300 
for the trouble and upset caused by wrongly applying a CIFAS marker against Mr Ss name 
and the delays in removing the marker.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman