DRN-3696150
The complaint
Mr N complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) declined his terminal 
illness benefit claim. 
Mr N is represented in making this complaint but, for ease, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as those of Mr N. 
What happened
Mr N took out a level term Life Assurance policy with Aviva in October 2011. The policy 
included terminal illness benefit, was for a term of 19 years and had a sum assured of 
£200,000. 
Mr N was, unfortunately, diagnosed with stage 4 lung cancer in mid-2020. He submitted a 
terminal illness benefit claim to Aviva in October 2021. 
Aviva declined the claim in December 2021. It said the medical report from Mr Ns 
Consultant confirmed his advanced cancer diagnosis along with his current treatment plan. It 
said the most recent scan showed a response to treatment and the current plan was for 
treatment to continue. Aviva said it was not medically supported that Mr Ns life expectancy 
was less than 12 months, as required under the terms of the policy. 
Mr N asked Aviva to look again at his claim in February 2022 and to consider what the 
outcome might have been if he had contacted it when he was first diagnosed. He said that 
he felt too unwell, both physically and emotionally to submit a claim at that time. Mr N said 
he believes his condition met the policy definition then. 
Aviva reconsidered the claim. It told Mr N in March 2022 that if he had contacted it when he 
was first diagnosed in 2020, it would likely have determined then that there were treatment 
options available that may have elongated his life expectancy. On that basis, it said it would 
have turned down the claim back then and awaited the outcome of such treatment. 
Aviva said it considered the February 2022 report from Mr Ns Oncologist. It said the report 
indicated Mr N had responded better than expected to treatment, his life expectancy was 
better than average and his Oncologist felt he was likely to continue to do well in terms of 
halting the cancers progress. So Aviva declined his claim based on his current life 
expectancy.
Aviva advised Mr N of the circumstances under which a future claim could be considered. It 
also explained that terminal illness benefit was an acceleration of the death benefit payable 
when it was satisfied that death was expected in the following twelve months. 
Mr N was unhappy with what Aviva said and brought his complaint to this Service. Our 
Investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Mr N didnt agree with what our Investigator said, so 
this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first of all want to explain what cover is provided by Mr Ns policy. It is a life assurance 
policy and these policies are designed to pay out as and when a policy holder passes away, 
as long as this happens while the policy is still in force. But insurers recognise that a policy 
holder who has been diagnosed as terminally ill often benefits from having the life assurance 
payment made to them in advance of their death. And in this way they have the opportunity 
to, for instance, settle their financial affairs. This advance payment of the death benefit is 
called terminal illness benefit. 
When a consumer submits a terminal illness benefit claim, its usual for insurers to not just 
assess whether a consumer is terminally ill, but to also look to only settle claims when it is 
expected that the policyholder will pass away during the policy term. This is why insurers 
often have a term in life assurance policies that says they wont settle terminal illness benefit 
claims until the policy holder has been diagnosed as having less than 12 months to live. The 
relevant term in Mr Ns policy is:
Terminal illness Benefit will be payable where, other than within the eighteen months prior 
to the End date, the Life Insured is diagnosed as suffering from an advanced or rapidly 
progressing and incurable condition (the Terminal illness) such that the life expectancy of 
the Life Insured is no greater than 12 months from the date the condition is notified to us by 
the Planholder.
Ive looked at whether Mr N has met the policy definition. Mr N has, sadly, been diagnosed 
with stage four lung cancer. Its clear Mr N has a condition that can be treated but not cured 
and so he has a terminal illness. So Avivas focus in assessing his claim has been on 
whether or not Mr Ns life expectancy is less than 12 months. Mr N first submitted a claim to 
Aviva in October 2021, so I think Aviva acted fairly and in line with the policy terms when it 
decided to assess his life expectancy from that point in time. 
Avivas Chief Medical Officer (CMO) said, in December 2021, that Mr N was doing far better 
than the average patient, had a very good response to treatment and was on track to 
achieve a durable response. The CMO concluded that until treatment is required to be 
stopped, life expectancy is very likely to be greater than 12 months. 
The report provided by Mr Ns Oncologist to Aviva at the end of November 2021 provided 
details of the two year treatment programme Mr N began around June 2020. He spoke about 
a positive response to treatment, such as there being no significant toxicity from the 
treatment and that tumour related symptoms had improved. Mr Ns Oncologist said the 
median overall survival for patients on Mr Ns treatment plan was 17.2 months. 
What this means is that neither the CMO nor Mr Ns Oncologist put Mr Ns life expectancy at 
less than 12 months at the point in time the claim was made in October 2021. So Im 
satisfied Aviva acted fairly and in line with the policy terms when it declined Mr Ns claim in 
December 2021. 
Following the decline, Aviva looked at how it might have assessed Mr Ns claim if he had 
made it when he was first diagnosed in mid-2020. This was at Mr Ns request as he thought 
he would have been given a prognosis of less than 12 months if he had submitted a claim 
when he was first diagnosed. Ive seen a letter from his Oncologist dated February 2022 and he said that if he had been 
asked to estimate Mr Ns life expectancy prior to starting his triple combination chemo-
immunotherapy back in April / May 2020, then his prognosis would have been estimated at 
no greater than 12 months. He then highlighted Mr Ns good progress during treatment. 
The key issue here is that although Mr Ns Oncologist has stated that his prognosis would 
have been estimated at less than 12 months prior to treatment, if Aviva had been assessing 
a claim from him at that stage, it wouldnt have solely relied on a statement such as that one. 
It would have been reasonable for it to consider what treatment might be offered when 
someone is first diagnosed and to consider what impact the treatment might have on any 
initial prognosis. This is because any treatment is likely to have a direct impact on the 
prognosis. 
When it considered Mr Ns claim retrospectively, Aviva said it would have turned down the 
claim back then and awaited the outcome of such treatment and Im satisfied this is most 
likely what it would have done, and that it would have been fair for it to deal with the claim in 
this way. So Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly when it turned down Mr Ns retrospective claim. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr N and I appreciate that my decision will disappoint 
him. But as I said earlier his policy provides life cover only. If Aviva is going to make an 
advance payment of that life cover, it is allowed to take reasonable steps to ensure Mr Ns 
condition fully meets the policy terms. 
I note that Aviva has let Mr N know of the circumstances under which a further terminal 
illness benefit claim could be made in the future. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman