DRN-3067699
The complaint
Miss H complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA wont refund a payment she made.
What happened
Miss H ordered an item for £23.99 and paid using her PayPal account. She says she didnt 
receive the item and made a claim for a refund to PayPal. She is unhappy that it declined 
her claim and she says that the tracking information about the delivery is fake.
PayPal said that it considered Miss Hs claim under the terms of its Buyer Protection. And 
that it was satisfied with the tracking information and wouldnt be refunding the money.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Miss Hs dispute was under 
the scope of Buyer Protection. And PayPal had received tracking information that our 
investigator had been able to confirm online using a third-party website. She didnt think that 
it had made a mistake.
Miss H didnt agree. She said that this is now more about the principle than the money 
involved. She maintained that the tracking information was fake as it indicated that an 
attempt was made to deliver the item at 10:11 on 30 January 2021 and then a delivery was 
later successful at 12:36. She said that a card would have been left the first time and that 
this shows that the information isnt correct. She wanted to take this further as this is fraud 
and PayPal is turning a blind eye to this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H is fairly subject to the terms of her user agreement with PayPal. As our investigator 
says a claim for an item not received can be considered under Buyer Protection and PayPal 
decides whether a claim will succeed. Its terms state that a claim wont qualify if the seller 
has provided proof of delivery.
The third party that was asked to deliver this item to Miss Hs home reports that it was 
delivered on its own independent website. I wont be in a position to resolve the points    
Miss H makes about the history of all the tracking of the item from overseas. But in light of 
the evidence available I dont have a basis to say that PayPal acted unfairly in applying the 
terms of its agreement.
I know Miss H will be very disappointed with my assessment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman