DRN-2042275
The complaint
Mr & Mrs G complain that Santander UK plc (Santander) issued a contactless debit card 
despite being asked to cancel these types of cards on their bank account. 
What happened
Mr & Mrs G have a bank account with Santander. Mr G received a contactless debit card 
from Santander but because of the security risks he felt it posed, he asked Santander to 
cancel this card and send a non- contactless debit card. Mr G is elderly, has hearing 
difficulties and struggles with the English language, so his son helped him contacting 
Santander - as a result it took considerable time to get this resolved. 
A few days later Mr G received a second contactless debit card, when he and his son spoke 
to Santander, they said that this was an automatic reissue of the original debit card. Mr G 
says that Santander said their systems cant stop the automatic reissue of contactless debit 
cards going forward and this needs to be requested by him before the expiry date of his 
current debit card. Mr G is looking for compensation for the inconvenience caused and 
doesnt want to be sent contactless debit cards in the future. 
Santander says the second debit card sent was a standard automatic reissue of his original 
debit card. Santander say their systems do not allow for reissued debit cards in the future to 
be downgraded to a non-contactless debit card and this can only be arranged by Mr G 
contacting them before the debit card expiry date. 
Mr G was unhappy with this and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available to her but didnt uphold the complaint as 
she felt that it wasnt for this service to tell businesses how to operate their systems. She felt 
Santander had done nothing wrong in issuing a contactless card as this is the standard debit 
card for this type of account. 
Mr G was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When considering Mr & Mrs Gs complaint I have looked at whether Santander acted 
unreasonably when issuing the contactless debit card and not stopping future contactless 
debit cards being sent, without Mr & Mrs G contacting them to do so. I can see that Mr & Mrs G may have concerns over the security surrounding contactless 
debit cards and it is not unreasonable for them to want to have a debit card without this 
facility.
From the information I have seen Mr G received a contactless debit card on his joint bank 
account and with the help of his son, due to difficulties with his hearing and the English 
language, cancelled the debit card and then received a non- contactless debit card. I can 
see it would be frustrating, only a few days later to receive a second contactless debit card 
he didnt want and then have to call Santander to sort this out. 
From the information I have seen there has been some conflicting information when looking 
at Santanders final response letter and the information subsequently provided to this 
service. 
Santander have now confirmed to this service that they do not know why the  second 
contactless card was  issued to Mr G. I am satisfied that this is not as they said in their final 
response letter   the card was a scheduled  reissue of his original card  this has only 
come to light when further questioned by this service. 
In addition to this and more importantly, Santander have now advised this service, after 
referring to their technical team, that future debit cards issued to Mr & Mrs G will be non- 
contactless cards, given they have recorded that Mr G has opted out of having contactless 
cards. This again is contrary to what they have said in their final response letter to Mr & Mrs 
G when Santander said, that to have a non-contactless card it would be necessary to 
contact us before the card was re-issued to order a non- contactless version. 
In light of this Mr & Mrs G will now receive non contactless cards in future as they requested 
which hopefully puts their minds at rest given their concerns of the security aspect of 
contactless cards. While Santander sent a second card to Mr G in error and I can see that 
would be frustrating, I cant see that he has been financially disadvantaged as a result. 
Santander did have the opportunity when looking into Mr & Mrs G complaint to correctly 
advise him of the error in sending him the second non contactless card. The complaint to 
this service may well have been avoided if Santander had said at the outset to Mr & Mrs G 
they had been opted out of contactless cards and in future would receive non contactless 
cards as they had requested. This is not what happened here, and they were told they would 
need to contact them in the future to arrange this. 
In view of this while Santander may be disappointed with my decision, I think Mr & Mrs G 
should be compensated for being told conflicting information about their  future non 
contactless card arrangements and for the inconvenience of having to raise this matter with 
this service when this could have been avoided.
Both Mr & Mrs G and Santander have accepted my provisional decision, so the case has 
been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mr & Mrs G and Santander until 18 August 2020 to accept or reject my 
provisional decision and they have both accepted my provisional decision, so I see no need 
to change or add to this and so my final decision remains the same. Putting things right
I would instruct Santander UK plc to make a compensation payment for Mr & Mrs Gs 
inconvenience of £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I would instruct Santander UK plc to make a compensation payment for Mr & Mrs Gs 
inconvenience of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman