DRN-4460622
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Bastion Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim on his 
insurance policy for lost car keys. 
What happened
Mr B and his wife were going away for a couple of days and left Mr Bs car near the airport 
their return flight was due to land at. Mr B and his wife then drove her car to the airport their 
flight was departing from. After they landed back in the UK, they were on the bus to collect 
Mr Bs car from where it was parked. Mr B noticed he couldnt find his key, so rather then get 
off the bus they remained on it and then got on a connecting bus to get home. 
As Mr B couldnt find the spare keys at home, he raised a claim with Bastion for the lost keys 
as his policy said it would pay up to £40 a day for three days for a hire car. The policy also 
provides up to £100 per day for three days for onward travel if the insured is stranded. So Mr 
B asked Bastion to agree to the £100 onward travel so he could get a taxi to where his wifes 
car was parked. 
Unfortunately, due to Mr B being at home the advisor advised Mr B his claim wasnt covered. 
He said that he could arrange for a hire car up to the limit advised in the policy but wouldnt 
be able to arrange that immediately. As onward travel wasnt being agreed for Mr B his wife 
made a second call to make the claim. In this call Bastion explained the policy didnt provide 
cover for onward travel in their situation, as they were at home. However, Bastion agreed to 
make an exception and authorise £100 for onward travel. Mr B thought this should have 
been agreed in the call he had and complained. He said hed spent two hours trying to get 
his claim agreed and his wife had it approved within 20 minutes. 
Bastion reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it agreed the call had taken 
longer than expected but said as the situation was complicated it thought the call had been 
handled reasonably. It also said that it thought having the onward travel authorised was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt recommended Bastion do anything else. 
He found that Mr B wasnt entitled to the £100 towards onward travel and so thought Bastion 
had acted fairly by approving it. As Bastion had authorised a claim it didnt need to under the 
policy, he thought this was sufficient compensation for the poor claim handling and lack of 
call back as had been agreed. Mr B didnt think this was fair, he said he was stranded at 
home and so was entitled to a claim under this section. He therefore didnt agree with our 
investigators outcome. 
As Mr B didnt agree the complaint has come to me do decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
When your insured keys are lost, stolen or damaged by accidental 
means within the territorial limits, the insurer will pay up to £1,500 in any 
one period of insurance in respect of:
Vehicle hire for a period of up to 3 days if your vehicle is unusable 
as a result of lost or stolen insured keys. The insurer will pay up to a 
maximum of £40 per day for a hire vehicle such as a Ford Focus 1.6 
or a Peugeot 307 1.6 (ABI class S4). 
The cost of reasonably incurred onward transportation if you are 
stranded due to the loss or theft of your insured keys up to a 
maximum of £100 per day up to a maximum of 3 days.
Mr B has explained he was stranded at home and therefore should have had his claim 
approved sooner. Ive listened to the calls Mr B and his wife had and in the calls theyre 
advised that this section of the policy is designed to pay £100 per day for onward travel to 
get them home.
Ive considered Mr Bs point and the definitions of stranded and that of onward 
transportation. While I can see Mr B explained he was at home with no way to get 
anywhere, and that his onward journey was to collect their cars, Im not persuaded thats the 
intention of the policy, or a fair and reasonable interpretation in the circumstances. I say this 
because the terms of the policy are designed to cover costs incurred due to lost keys in 
certain situations, but not all. Bastion explained travelling from their home address to get 
their other car and check whether the spare key was in it, wasnt the intention of this term. 
And when taking into account a fair and reasonable interpretation, Im satisfied that the 
explanation provided in the calls is fair and reasonable. 
Mr B needed to travel to collect his wifes car and check if there was a key for his car in it. 
Given the unusual situation I can understand why the initial call took longer than expected, 
albeit I still think it took longer than needed. And when considering the claim isnt one the 
policy is designed to cover, Im satisfied Bastion has acted fairly by authorising it when it 
didnt need too. When taking this into account, along with the handling of the initial call, and 
not receiving a call back as agreed. Im not going to tell Bastion to do anything else.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman