DRN-3571569
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nelson Insurance Company Ltd delayed repairs to his taxi following a 
claim made on his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his lost 
earnings.
 
What happened
Nelson took Mr As taxi for repairs. Mr A had separate cover for a courtesy car from another 
company. This provided 14 days cover. But Nelson didnt complete the repairs for a further 
week. So Mr A lost a weeks income. He wants reimbursement of £1,300. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Nelson 
had completed the repairs within a reasonable time and that Nelson hadnt caused any 
avoidable delays. He thought Mr A should have contacted the other insurer if he had wanted 
his courtesy car for longer.  
Mr A replied that his local garage could have done the repairs in three days, but he was 
forced to use Nelsons approved repairer which took longer. He said the approved garage 
took nine days to provide an estimate when his garage took one. He said the repairer should 
have realised that the car was imported, and parts would need to be ordered from overseas. 
He said the delay had caused him loss of earnings and inconvenience for his family. He said 
the company that provided the courtesy car was instructed by Nelson. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr A was unhappy that he had to use Nelsons approved repairer rather than his own 
garage. He said this caused delays in getting an estimate and in having the repairs done.
Ive looked at Mr As policy documents and I can see that the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID) states the following:
If your policy is comprehensive, then a repairer that has been authorised and approved by 
us will repair your vehicle.
And the introduction to the policy terms and conditions provides further information:
Who repairs my vehicle?
If your policy is comprehensive then an approved repairer will repair your vehicle. The 
network of approved repairers consists of approved garages which have been appointed on 
the basis of their high quality repair standards and customer service. [Nelson] will obtain 
repair estimates on your behalf and will be able to expedite authorisation of the necessary 
repairs
If you choose to use your own repairer, we cannot guarantee that the work will be of a high 
standard and we will need to approve an estimate obtained by yourself before work can 
commence. If we think the repair estimate is unreasonable we may arrange for your vehicle 
to be moved to a different repairer. Any difference in labour costs over and above what an 
approved repairer would charge may have to be paid for by you if the costs cannot be 
agreed upon.
Ive looked at the information Mr A and Nelson have provided, and I cant see whether or not 
Mr A asked to use his own repairer. If he had, then I think this would have been permitted 
and Nelson would have applied the provisos set out above. But, from what I can see, Mr A 
agreed to take his car to the approved garage for repairs. And so I cant say that Nelson 
acted outside the policys terms and conditions in having his car repaired by its approved 
garage. 
Mr A was unhappy with the length of time the repairs took. Ive compared the timelines 
provided by Mr A and Nelson. 
Its agreed the accident occurred on 14 June and was reported on 15 June. The 
intermediary, not Nelson, instructed the other company to provide a courtesy car. The 
following day, the approved garage was instructed, and it provided an estimate the next day. 
It then took three working days for the estimate to be authorised by Nelson. I dont think this 
was unreasonable. 
Mr A took his car in for repairs on 24 June. I can understand Mr As point that this was nine 
days after he reported the accident. But I think, allowing for working days, this wasnt 
unreasonable as the estimate had to be made and then authorised and then the car had to 
be booked in for repairs.
On 24 June and 28 June, Nelson emailed the repairer asking it to prioritise the repairs 
because Mr A was concerned that his courtesy car provision would end. On 30 June, the 
garage confirmed that all parts were on site and that it expected repairs to be completed by 
2 July following a quality check. This was confirmed to Mr A. But Mr A didnt get his car back 
as he expected. 
The next working day, the garage explained that it couldnt readily obtain one part as the car 
was imported. Rather than wait for this to arrive, which could have taken weeks, it was 
reconditioning a used part. Nelson then updated Mr A and its engineer also called him. The 
car was returned to Mr A two days later. 
I can understand that Mr A felt frustrated that the repairs werent completed before he had to 
return the hire car. But I think Nelson explained by email that the car may fail the quality 
check, and this might delay completion. 
And I think Nelson completed the repairs in a reasonable timeframe and I cant see that it 
caused any avoidable delays. Indeed, I think it chased the garage and it reconditioned a part 
to avoid delays. And I think Nelson kept Mr A reasonably informed about the repairs so that 
he could mitigate his losses if he chose. 
Mr A was unhappy that he had to return the courtesy car after 14 days. But this wasnt 
instructed or provided by Nelson under his policys terms and conditions. This was provided 
through a different company and I can see that the intermediary has sent Mr A a copy of the 
policy certificate showing this. And, as this is a different business to Nelson, I cant consider 
this further here. 
And, as I dont think Nelson did anything wrong in progressing the claim I dont require it to 
pay Mr A any compensation for his loss of earnings. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman