DRN-3079671
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the amount she received on maturity of her with-profits bond held 
with Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (SF).
What happened
On 4 February 2003, Mrs B started a SF with-profits bond (the bond) for a term of eighteen 
years paying £25 each month. She received a maturity pack on 24 December 2020. 
Amongst other things, this let Mrs B know about the options that she had regarding the 
maturity of the bond which was due on 4 February 2021. It also let her know that the bond 
had an estimated value on maturity of £8,096. Mrs B decided to cash-in the bond and 
received a sum of £7,555. However, she was unhappy that this sum was lower than the 
estimated amount as shown in the December maturity pack.
Mrs B complained to SF. She said it had delayed matters by not responding to her emails 
which she first sent on 13 December 2020. She also said delays were caused by it not 
emailing her the maturity claim form (the form) and also not including an email address so 
she could send this back more quickly.
SF upheld Mrs Bs complaint in part. In terms of the maturity value, SF didnt agree it had 
acted incorrectly. It noted the final bonus was dependent on the performance of the with-
profits fund. SF said that due to the prevailing market conditions, it was required to reduce 
the final bonus rate to 45% for tax exempt investments running for terms of eighteen years. 
This was applicable to any policies coming to maturity from 1 January 2021. In terms of the 
delays to responding to Mrs Bs emails, it initially didnt offer any compensation but later 
changed this and offered Mrs B £25 for the delays in responding to some of her emails. 
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint in part. She recommended 
compensation of £50 for the delays in answering some of Mrs Bs emails. In terms of what 
Mrs B actually received, our investigator didnt think there was any evidence of the maturity 
value being calculated incorrectly. And she was satisfied the amount set out in the maturity 
pack, was clearly stated to be an estimate.
Mrs B disagreed. She thought the delays impacted on her more than the investigator had 
said. Mrs B also said that if there had been no delays she would not have received a 
reduced bonus. So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs B including the detailed timelines 
shes provided. But I wont be addressing every single point shes raised. Ive instead 
concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs B says that if the claim form was submitted by 1 January 2021, which she notes 
wouldve been the case if SF had not caused delays in responding to her, the bond would 
not have been subject to the reduction in bonuses. But the amount Mrs B received was 
based on the maturity date which was 4 February 2021. This was clearly after 1 January 
2021. So, Im satisfied that any delays caused by SF didnt result in any financial detriment 
to Mrs B in terms of the reduction in bonuses applied after 1 January 2021.
As SF said, the reduction was due to market conditions which affected the amount of bonus 
that was added to the final maturity value. This possibility was explained to Mrs B from the 
outset in the key features document which said: Future bonus rates depend on investment 
performance and cannot be guaranteed. The key features said the only amount that was 
guaranteed was the sum assured which would be paid at the end of the term. In Mrs Bs 
case, the sum assured was set at £4,545  the remainder of the £7,555 she received at the 
end of the term, was the result of annual bonuses and a final bonus.
I also think the sum given in the maturity pack made it reasonably clear that the amount it 
gave was an estimate of what Mrs B may receive. This was made clear where it said:
Should you decide to cash in your Scottish Bond we will send you an 
estimated tax-free payout of:
Estimated Scottish Bond cash in value: £8,096.91 
Made up of sum assured £4,545.00, annual bonuses £678.81 and estimated 
final bonus £2,873.10. 
So, I dont consider this to be a statement of fact that should have been relied upon or that it 
was reasonable to have relied upon it. And even if it was, there is nothing to suggest there 
was any financial loss as a result of relying upon that statement.
All in all, I think the information Mrs B was provided with prior to the maturity date by SF, was 
fair, clear and not misleading.
Mrs B seems to now accept the maturity pack was an estimate, but she is unhappy that SF 
didnt do more to set her expectations. I sympathise with Mrs B in this regard. But the 
maturity value isnt and cant be worked out in advance. The final bonus is based on a 
number of factors including the performance of the with-profit fund. This is a balancing 
exercise for SF using its commercial judgment. Its also the case that this is an investment, 
and so it cannot be immune from economic factors which could and did in this case, impact 
on the final bonus received by investors.
I can see there were delays in answering some of Mrs Bs emails sent between December 
2020 and January 2021. The timescales communicated to Mrs B in SFs automated 
responses was five working days. I appreciate these delays, in one instance eighteen 
working days rather than the communicated five working days, wouldve been very 
frustrating for Mrs B. I see Mrs B did chase SF a number of times.
I also understand why Mrs B thinks SF couldve given her the email option earlier. However, 
I cant fairly say she suffered any financial detriment due to any delays. And SF did send her 
the maturity pack in time for her to return her claim form within the necessary time limits. I 
can see there was no delay to her receiving the maturity cheque. So, whilst I accept there 
were delays, which SF says was due, in part, to measures it put in place in response to the 
Covid-19 situation, on balance, Im satisfied £50 fairly and reasonably compensates Mrs B 
for its delays. So, whilst I know Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, Im not going to ask SF to do anything further.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part, and I order Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to pay 
Mrs B £50 for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman