DRN-2636550
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to review, suspend and 
subsequently close his account. He says this caused him severe distress and he would like 
compensation.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr R tried to make an online payment with a third-party company and was 
asked to call Nat Wests fraud team. He called the relevant number and was able to give 
Nat West the information they needed to confirm it was him making the purchase.
The next day, Mr R tried to use his card in a supermarket and couldnt. He found out his 
account was blocked and spent several hours on the phone to Nat West trying to find out 
what had happened. 
On 31 July 2020, Nat West decided to close Mr Rs account. They sent him a letter to 
confirm their decision and enclosed a funds release form to allow Mr R to access his 
money. Mr R says he didnt receive this letter. Nat West paid Mr R £65 compensation for the 
inconvenience and call costs.
Mr R complained and said his accounts being closed made him miss payments and bills 
such as his mortgage. Nat West responded to Mr Rs complaint and said there hadnt been a 
bank error when closing Mr Rs account but recognised the lack of customer service Mr R 
received through the phone calls. They paid an additional £50 compensation and a further 
£16.20 in call costs. Mr R remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. 
The investigator who looked into Mr Rs complaint didnt think Nat West needed to do 
anything differently. She was satisfied Nat West were entitled to review and close Mr Rs 
account in the way they did. And she didnt think theyd caused any delays in Mr R receiving 
his money. 
Mr R disagreed. He said Nat West shouldnt be able to treat people like they treated him. 
And he said the impact the situation had on him was severe  resulting in suicidal thoughts. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint. I know this will come as a great 
disappointment to Mr R, but Ive explained my reasons further below.
Nat West are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied Nat West was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr Rs account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done 
anything wrong. I appreciate Nat West didnt tell Mr R about the review  but theyre not 
obliged to.
Ive looked at the time Nat West took to review things. I understand the account was initially 
blocked around 30 July 2020, and it was completed shortly afterwards with Nat West making 
the decision to close Mr Rs account on 31 July 2020. 
I appreciate Mr R couldnt access his money  and he says that caused him a great level of 
distress. I dont doubt this would have been a really worrying time for Mr R  especially as he 
says he missed out on a weekend away and struggled to feed his family. But that in itself 
doesnt mean Nat West did anything wrong. Ultimately, theyre allowed to inhibit accounts 
while they review things  as long as they have a legitimate reason for doing so and dont 
cause any unnecessary delays. Nat West hasnt shared any information about why they took 
the action they did with Mr R  and theyre not obliged to. But Id like to reassure Mr R that 
based on the evidence Ive seen and the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied 
Nat West were fair in their actions.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr R decided to stop banking with Nat West, he wouldnt have to explain why. Nat West 
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of 
the account. Nat West have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Rs account 
 and helpfully pointed out the specific term they relied on when doing so in their final 
response to Mr R. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. Nat West exercised 
their right to no longer offer Mr R banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that 
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
Nat Wests policy states that funds can take up to 60 days to be released. Im pleased to see 
Mr R was able to withdraw his money after around 14 days. While I appreciate this still would 
have been a difficult time for Mr R, I cant uphold his complaint on this part alone. And thats 
because Nat West were acting in line with their policies.
Mr R spent a long time on the phone trying to find out what had happened. Im satisfied 
Nat West recognised this upset and inconvenience by paying Mr R compensation prior to the 
complaint being referred to our service. Im also satisfied theyve reimbursed Mr R fairly for 
the call costs he would have incurred.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr R feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it was 
an extremely difficult and worrying time. Im sorry to hear about the impact this overall 
situation had on Mr R. But I can only uphold Mr Rs complaint if I think Nat West have acted 
unfairly. And based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think they have. There are times where 
Nat Wests service fell short  but I think theyve fairly compensated Mr R for that already. 
So, Im not going to ask Nat West to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 Hayley West
Ombudsman