DRN-2287574
The complaint
Mr C complains hes had issues with his Nationwide Building Society mobile app and 
removing benefits from his FlexPlus account.
What happened
Mr C made a purchase from an online retailer on 27 April 2020. He says that the purchase 
was debited from his available balance on his mobile banking app. When he checked his 
app a few days later he says the payment was no longer showing on his available balance. 
He tried to contact the retailer to see if the order had been cancelled but as he could not get 
through to a call handler he assumed the transaction was refunded but he was unable to 
reorder the same item so he bought a different item from a different retailer at a higher price.
The item arrived, Mr C washed the clothing so he could wear it (but in doing so would not be 
able to return the item). A few days later while checking the Nationwide app he saw the 
original, preferred item from the first retailer had been debited from his account on 11 May 
2020 and the original order had been fulfilled. As he received the new item from the new 
retailer he wanted to return the item. He did not want to go to the post office during the 
pandemic as he was shielding his young son. 
He complained to Nationwide as he said the item was showing on his app and then 
disappeared and had not been debited from his available balance leading him to believe that 
his order was cancelled.
Mr C also complained that he requested Nationwide to remove the fee from his FlexPlus 
account several years ago. He said he wasnt using the benefits and they did not complete 
his request to do so.
Nationwide responded to Mr C and said that they couldnt find any evidence of the app not 
working. They also said the transaction could well have dropped off and then been reclaimed 
by the retailer as it debited his account on 11 May 2020. Nationwide said this is standard 
process for a Visa purchase given an order was made and not cancelled with the merchant.
Nationwide could not find any evidence of any requests from Mr C to cancel the FlexPlus 
benefits, so did not uphold any of his complaint but offered a telephone number in which he 
could change his FlexPlus account. Mr C did not accept their response so brought his 
complaint to our service.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint as Mr C had authorised the payment for the 
original item. Our investigator said the terms and conditions of his account states that 
enough money should be in the account to cover the payment because some (payments) 
can take up to 120 days to go through, meaning the money could be taken at a later date. 
He also said that he had read call notes from the last two years and there was no mention of 
changing the account but in February 2019 Mr C had ordered a replacement FlexPlus card.
Nationwide accepted the view of the investigator, but Mr C did not. He said that the 
investigator did not specifically address his request to change his FlexPlus account, that 
their complaints department didnt stop the account fee and they provided him with a 
telephone number he couldnt get through to. He has a health condition which has affected 
his day to day living and thats why he hadnt been able to chase up his request. 
Mr C asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman as he reiterated his health 
issues. He also said Nationwide complaints department should have cancelled the fee-
paying part of his FlexPlus account instead of giving him a phone number which was always 
busy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to first consider is whether its fair to hold Nationwide responsible for what led to 
Mr C making the second purchase he did here. When Mr C made the first payment to the 
retailer here, he authorised it and he confirmed it appeared on the Nationwide app. All of the 
evidence that Nationwide has provided has shown that, from this point, they treated this as a 
normal transaction  with the payment showing as authorised and then debiting the account 
later on. Nationwide have explained that this is in line with the normal process for a purchase 
of this type. 
So theres nothing here to suggest that Nationwide made any mistakes with how they 
handled this payment  as it was never shown as cancelled on their systems. They have 
also looked into whether there were any known issues as to why the payment would show 
on the app and later disappear - but there werent. So taking all this into account its difficult 
for me to see why the payment would have stopped appearing on the Nationwide app Mr C 
was using. It may be due to something the retailer did. But, in any event, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that this would have been something Nationwide were responsible for.
Mr C tried to contact the original retailer for the status of his order, but assumed it was 
cancelled when he couldnt get in touch with them. I realise why Mr C did what he did here  
but impartially, that doesnt mean that I can hold Nationwide responsible for his choice to go 
ahead with another purchase. As Ive said above, theres simply no evidence of Nationwide 
making a mistake here.
So Ill turn to the issue with Mr Cs FlexPlus account not being amended. Hes explained he 
requested this several years ago but couldnt remember when due to a health condition. 
Nationwide have searched their system using Mr Cs mobile number which theyve had since 
2012 and provided call recordings and call notes (if the calls havent been recorded). I have 
reviewed these and there is no record of Mr C requesting the account to be changed in the 
way Id expect there to be for a request like this. 
When Mr C asked for the insurance benefits on the account to be stopped, Nationwide said 
that if he wanted to change his account, he could ring the number provided and a member of 
staff would be able to assist him in doing so. 
I know Mr C thinks they should have stopped the benefits right then and there, but I think 
what Nationwide said was fair. Mr C would be changing his account type, so Nationwide 
have confirmed they are unable to just remove the insurance element of the FlexPlus 
account as this is part of the product as a whole. So his request wasnt just a straightforward 
one and I think its fair that Nationwide said he needed to speak to them in more detail 
before doing this. Nationwides website also shows if a customer wants to change the FlexPlus account to a 
different type of account they can either visit the branch (which I understand would not be 
suitable in Mr Cs personal circumstances) or contact them on the number provided. So, I 
think it is clear from both the communication and website that the account can only be 
changed if Mr C were to ring them and so it follows I wont be asking Nationwide to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman