DRN-4260859
The complaint
Miss F has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited, trading as 
American Express (Amex), charged her foreign transaction fees, and wasnt notified at the 
time.
What happened
Miss F took out an Amex card. On 8,9 and 10 February 2023, she was charged non-Sterling 
transaction fees. These showed in her monthly statement on 13 February 2023. She feels 
this was unfair and she should also have been notified of them in real-time.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. But he was satisfied that the T&Cs 
of the account provided for these charges to be applied. And there was no requirement for a 
customer to also be notified of them at the time theyre incurred.
Miss F also felt that if she used her card abroad, Amex should go through an extra layer of 
security. Our investigator didnt agree that theres any requirement for this.
Miss F disagreed. She feels the fees should be refunded as a gesture of goodwill, because 
she thinks they would be if shed been a customer for a longer time. Also, she feels the 
online banking system is flawed, as shed have no way of knowing about the charges in real 
time, except for knowing about them from the T&Cs when she opened the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand that Miss F would like 
reminders of the charges in real-time. But, they appear in the T&Cs, which she agreed to. 
She may prefer a different system, but Amex has acted in accordance with its T&Cs, and I 
dont think this is inherently unfair.
Businesses do sometimes waive charges as a gesture of goodwill. But theres no 
requirement to do so, and I can see no reason why it should here, when the charges were 
set out clearly in the T&Cs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman
