DRN-3293681
The complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd wont reimburse money he lost when he says he fell victim 
to a binary options investment scam. 
What happened
Mr M came across a binary options company called 72 Option online. They guaranteed 
profits and explained investing with them would help improve his credit file. He paid them 
two payments totalling £3,000 on 21 November 2017. Mr M realised there was a problem 
when he tried to withdraw his money and was told that he couldnt until he met a certain 
trading volume. He says this was explained to him at the point of sale. 
He approached NewDay for assistance with recovering his money. It processed chargeback 
claims on Mr Ms behalf and temporarily refunded the disputed payments. The chargeback 
claims were defended by 72 Option. NewDay tried to contact Mr M for further information but 
didnt receive a reply so decided to hold him liable for the transactions. Mr M referred his 
complaint to this office.
 
One of our investigators felt that NewDay should return the payments plus interest. He said 
based on good industry practice, NewDay should have identified 72 Option as scammers 
when the initial payment was attempted. He felt that NewDay should treat the payments as 
though they didnt happen and pay interest to Mr M.
NewDay didnt reply so the case has been passed to me for determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties 
to protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr M for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr M using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by NewDay. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
NewDay should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im satisfied 72 Option were scammers for the reasons explained by our investigator. 
As long ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper 
entitled Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting 
victimsthat it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types 
of scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment 
being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
There were several regulator warnings published about 72 Option on International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) Investor Alert Portal dating back to 
December 2016  which is more than a month prior to Mr Ms first payment to them. Im 
satisfied Mr Ms initial payment should have triggered NewDays fraud detection systems. 
Therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr M before 
processing the payment to satisfy itself that all was well.
If NewDay had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr M would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
explained to him the very high risks of getting involved with unregulated and unlicensed 
binary options dealers. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information 
in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not
about the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of 
potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication 
of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and 
investment disputes arising from merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying 
deceptive practices; and so forth). 
There is no evidence that NewDay intervened in the payments to 72 Option. It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
If NewDay had asked Mr M what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it 
is likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with his broker. NewDay did not need to know for certain 
whether Mr M was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that NewDay ought reasonably to 
have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial 
professionals about the risks associated with unregulated forex and binary options dealers. 
If NewDay had given a warning, I believe that Mr M would have paused and looked more 
closely into 72 Option before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more probable 
that he would have made further enquiries into whether or not 72 Option were regulated in 
the UK or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and the various regulatory 
warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above). In other words, I am 
satisfied that a warning from his trusted bank would probably have exposed 72 Options 
smoke and mirrors, causing him not to invest and preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
Mr Ms payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. 
But for NewDays failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr M 
would probably have not lost any money. 
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mr M should share blame for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and required NewDay Ltd to:
1. Refund all the payments made to 72 Option totalling £3,000 and rework the account 
so that all interest and charges caused by those payments are refunded.
 
2. Pay interest to Mr M on any sums repaid towards the credit card balance arising from 
those payments, interest or charges, from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement. If NewDay is required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr M 
a tax deduction certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman