DRN-3105656
The complaint
Mr O ,  a director of Limited Company O, complains that Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays) 
didnt refund the full amount of a failed international payment. He would like the difference 
refunded, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
There is no dispute Barclays made an international payment  on 2 February 2021 for 
£2500. On 5 February 2021 the money was sent  back. Barclays has explained that 
,due to the exchange rate on the day, the second payment was only for  £2,362.75 
.For me to say that Barclays should refund the difference and pay any compensation 
I  need to be persuaded that it was at fault.
Barclays has explained that the full amount would have been refunded  if the 
receiving bank had rejected or returned the payment as it couldnt apply the money to 
the receiving account, or of there had been a bank error by either bank. But this 
wasnt the case here. It seems the funds did credit the receiving account,  but the 
beneficiary returned the funds directly to O as it didnt meet their terms and 
conditions. Barclays has evidenced this by a screen shot of the return payment. This 
would explain why the payments were made in different ways  the first as an 
international payment the second as a Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) 
transaction.  As the return payment was initiated by the recipient , not the receiving 
bank, I think  this was as separate transaction not a direct return or refund from the 
receiving bank. As such , whilst I appreciate the loss , I think Barclays were entitled 
to apply the exchange rate on the day.to the second transaction. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman
