DRN-3230134
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Hastings Insurance Services Limited unreasonably refused to
refund her the cost of temporarily adding another driver to her motor policy when it was
discovered there was no cover for that additional driver to drive in Europe.
What happened
Ms R asked Hastings, the broker of her policy, in October 2021 to add her daughter onto her
policy as a temporary additional driver. This cost Ms R £66.12. Once the payment had gone
through, she clarified with the adviser if this covered her daughter to drive in Europe.
Unfortunately, the adviser said there was no cover to allow a temporary driver in this way
drive in Europe.
Ms R asked to be refunded the extra fee of £66.12 but the adviser said as the amendment
had already been processed it couldnt not be refunded as she had explained before he took
the payment. Ms R thought this was unfair and complained. But Hastings wouldnt change
its stance, so she brought her complaint to us.
The investigator didnt think Hastings had done anything wrong. Ms R didnt agree so her
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision and I said the following:
My role is to assess if Hastings did anything wrong according to the terms and 
conditions of Ms Rs policy. I cant find anything in the original policy terms dealing 
with the temporary addition of another driver on the policy. And indeed, nothing to 
say only three such temporary changes can be made, nor that the fees and premium 
increase generated arent refundable. Therefore, there is nothing to show me that Ms 
R was treated fairly and not singled out and treated differently from anyone else in 
similar circumstances.
Further in the documents generated by the additional temporary driver disclosed by
Hastings, it makes no reference to the fact that the temporary driver would have no 
cover when driving in France. Instead, the document refers to contact details for new 
claims outside the UK. Also, under the limitations as to use and the subsequent list 
of whats not covered there is no mention of not being covered whilst driving in 
Europe. Motor breakdown insurance including roadside, recovery both at home and 
more importantly EU, is listed as a benefit and under that section nothing is listed 
about this breakdown insurance not being applicable to temporary drivers.
More importantly this document generated by the addition of a temporary driver 
merely confirms the 14- day cooling off period but gives no details that temporary 
change fees cant be refunded and in fact there is no cooling off period at all.
On this basis there is nothing before me to show Hastings is adhering to the FCA 
edict of treating customers fairly. Further, if there were any restrictions on the cover 
afforded to such a temporary driver, those restrictions should have been listed at the 
outset in order to ensure Ms R was given enough information to make an informed 
decision. Clearly here because it was all to do with a trip to Europe, Ms R wasnt 
aware of the restrictions on the temporary cover for her daughter until it was too late. 
I dont agree it was for Ms R to enquire first as to what if any restrictions of cover 
were imposed on the temporary drivers but rather it was for Hastings to detail them, 
before selling the cover to Ms R.
Therefore, I consider this temporary cover was mis-sold to Ms R which means I 
consider the payment taken should be refunded to her in its entirety with interest.
I can hear on the call recordings that Ms R was very upset about this more so since 
she had only just paid it. And considering it was a two-week trip, this would have 
further inconvenienced Ms R and her plans. So, for these reasons, I consider it 
reasonable that Hastings pays Ms R the sum of £100 compensation.
Hastings didnt respond. Ms R was happy with my view and felt I should ensure Hastings 
change its processes so other people dont get caught out like she did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Have done so again, given Hastings didnt respond to my provisional decision, I remain of 
the view that its reasonable for this complaint to be upheld for the reasons detailed above.
I cant however tell Hastings to change its processes, as this service isnt the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority is, and it is only the regulator who can do this. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to the following:
Refund the payment by Ms R in its entirety.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Ms R paid for the temporary cover 
to date it refunds her.
If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should 
be provided to Ms R for HMRC purposes.
Pay Ms R the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Rona DoyleOmbudsman