DRN-2228528
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Metro Bank PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably in relying 
upon the valuation of their property, and want the extra interest this decision has cost them 
refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O remortgaged their property with Metro in November 2018 but felt that the 
valuation relied upon was incorrect and too low. This affected the loan to value ratio (the 
amount borrowed compared to the value of the property) and they said this meant they were 
offered a product with a higher interest rate. The product was accepted by Mr and Mrs O, but 
they wanted the interest rate recalculated as if the valuation was the amount they thought 
was correct, and the money refunded.
Mr and Mrs O complained to Metro and the broker. Metro said the valuation of £360,000 was 
from a professional independent valuer and it was entitled to rely on it. It said Mr and Mrs O 
didnt challenge the valuation with it until August 2019. The broker said it was told by 
Mr and Mrs O that they thought the property was worth £360,000, and it was the valuers 
decision that was key to any view about the value of the property. 
Mr and Mrs O complained to us, saying that theyd got higher valuations after the 
remortgage took place. The investigators view was that Metro wasnt at fault. She noted that 
valuation in the application form was £360,000, and it was fair and reasonable for Metro to 
rely on the independent view of the valuer. The investigator said that Mr and Mrs O chose to 
accept the offer and didnt dispute the valuation at the time.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed. They said that there was no evidence to substantiate the valuation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders arent expert valuers but need to know the market valuation of properties for which 
theyre asked to give mortgages. Metro relied on the advice of an independent expert valuer, 
which is fair and reasonable. It didnt need to ask for more information because the valuation 
wasnt challenged at the time to Metro. The failure to challenge at the time meant that it 
wasnt possible for Metro to ask the valuer to review in light of any evidence Mr and Mrs O 
couldve sent through their broker and explain his position. Instead, Mr and Mrs O accepted 
the offer, which suggested they were content with it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 January 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman