DRN-4008203
Complaint
Ms B has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
provided to her. She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Ms B with a loan for £2,500.00 in November 2018. This loan had a 
term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £8,211.96, including 
interest, fees and charges of £5,711.26, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of 
£228.11. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Bs complaint and he thought Everyday Loans 
shouldnt have provided Ms B with her loan. So he thought that Ms Bs complaint should be 
upheld. 
Everyday Loans didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Bs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it acted fairly and reasonably when lending to Ms B. 
In practice, what this means is Everyday Loans needed to find out enough about Ms B such 
that it could have a reasonable understanding of whether Ms B could afford to repay any 
credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it asked Ms B to provide 
payslips and that it carried out a credit check before this loan was provided. The results of 
which showed that Ms B had defaults and more than one active county court judgement 
recorded against her. 
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation showed 
that this loan would take Ms B right to the margin of her disposal income. And Everyday 
Loans relied on the use of average data and minimum payments to her revolving credit 
commitments to calculate Ms Bs expenditure when arriving at its monthly disposable income 
figure.
Ive also considered that the recorded purpose of this loan appears to have been debt 
consolidation. However, the amount advanced wasnt enough to clear Ms Bs debts. In these 
circumstances, its unclear to me how or what was going to be consolidated and more 
crucially how this loan, which was on such disadvantageous terms, was going to improve Ms 
Bs outgoings going forward. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im persuaded by what Ms B has said about 
already being in a difficult financial position at the time she took out this loan. And while its 
possible Ms Bs difficulties reflected her choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that 
my experience of these types of cases suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any 
reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept   
Ms Bs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Bs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable enquiries into Ms Bs circumstances would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to her. As 
Everyday Loans provided Ms B with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms B ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms B lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Ms B
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Ms B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Ms B paid on her loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Ms B to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information recorded about this loan from Ms Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Bs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman