DRN-3718390
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Os complaint is about an application for a new mortgage and porting of existing 
interest rate products that was declined by Yorkshire Building Society (YBS). They consider 
that the requirements YBS placed on agreeing a mortgage on the property they wanted to 
buy were unreasonable and as such, it forced them to look for a mortgage with another 
lender. This meant that they had to pay early repayment charges (ERC) when they paid off 
the YBS mortgage. Mr and Mrs O consider the ERCs were unjustified given they were forced 
to repay the mortgage by YBS and their mortgage was fully offset. In addition, they consider 
the amount of the ERC was excessive. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O took out their mortgage with YBS in 2013 and subsequently took a further 
advance. They attached interest rate products to the two parts of the mortgage at different 
times.
In 2021 they decided to move home and applied to port the existing interest rate products to 
the new property. The application was considered by YBS, but as the property had been 
converted to residential use within the previous ten years, YBS lending policy required that it 
be covered by a latent defects warranty. The property didnt have such a warranty attached 
to it and it was not possible to obtain one.
At that time the main mortgage advance had a fixed interest rate product attached to it which 
was due to expire at the end of June 2022. The further advance also had a fixed rate product 
linked to it, which was due to expire at the end of August 2022. There were linked ERCs of 
1% and 2.5% respectively, although that on the further advance would reduce to 1.5% the 
following month. 
Mr and Mrs O complained to YBS as they didnt think it was being fair in requiring a warranty 
that was impossible to provide, and if they had to take a mortgage elsewhere, it should 
charge the ERC.
YBS accepted that Mr O had been spoken to inappropriately on one occasion and it 
apologised for that having happened. It also acknowledged that appropriate responses 
hadnt been given to emails Mr O had sent. As such, YBS offered Mr and Mrs O £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience these errors had caused them. In addition, it offered a further 
£20 for their time and call costs. However, it confirmed that its lending policy required a 
latent defects warranty for new build properties and so it didnt consider it was wrong in 
asking for one to be provided in order to agree to lend on the property Mr and Mrs O wanted 
to buy. Subsequently, YBS confirmed that as the property didnt meet its lending policy and it 
wouldnt waive the ERC, as it had done nothing wrong.
Mr and Mrs O werent satisfied with YBS response and asked us to consider their complaint. 
They told us that the type of warranty YBS required for the property wasnt possible to obtain 
because of how the property had been converted. They said that the £10 offered for their 
time was inadequate, given the amount of time that had been spent researching the 
warranty problem and the time that was then wasted due to YBS not reading Mr Os emails. 
Mr and Mrs O also confirmed that they had bought the property they wanted with the 
assistance of a mortgage from a different lender. When they paid off their existing borrowing, 
YBS charged the ERC associated with the interest rate products. Mr and Mrs O consider 
that as their mortgage was an offset one, YBS wouldnt incur any costs when their mortgage 
was repaid. So the ERC wasnt justified, YBS had taken the money just because it could, 
and the money had gone straight to profit.
Two of our investigators considered the complaint. They didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
They were satisfied that the property Mr and Mrs O wanted to buy didnt fall within YBS 
lending policy, and so it was not unreasonable for it to have declined to agree a mortgage on 
the property. In that circumstance, as they paid off their existing mortgage before the end of 
the two interest rate products, it was not inappropriate for the ERCs to be charged. The 
second investigator was also satisfied that the ERCs charged were a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the cost to YBS of the mortgage being paid off early, as is required by the 
regulator. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt accept the opinions of the investigators and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman. They said that the investigators interpretation about their 
complaint was wrong, in that they were not just unhappy or didnt like having to pay the 
ERCs. They didnt consider that the investigators had put any effort into assessing their case 
and hadnt answered their questions and points raised. They said that they didnt care about 
whether the amount of the ERCs were a reasonable pre-estimate, as in their opinion, YBS 
hadnt made a loss on their particular mortgage.
The second investigator expanded on his explanation about the calculation of ERC and set 
out some of the many factors that could be taken into account when an ERC was calculated. 
He reiterated that the ERCs Mr and Mrs O had been charged were reasonable, based on the 
calculations made at the time the tranche of money was made available for borrowing. The 
complaint was then referred for an ombudsman to review it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to recognise Mr and Mrs Os 
strength of feeling about this matter. They have provided detailed submissions to support 
this complaint, which I have read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy, as 
that is certainly not my intention. It is a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because I have ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
I would firstly explain that no-one has the right to borrow money, and that includes where 
there is an existing mortgage. In this case, Mr and Mrs O were applying for a new mortgage 
on a new property, and asking to transfer their existing interest rate products to the new 
mortgage. The mortgage application was always subject to an assessment of the 
application, including the property that Mr and Mrs O wanted to buy.
A lender will decide what types of property it is willing to provide mortgages for. Many 
lenders wont lend on certain types of property, or have requirements that need to be met for 
others. In this case, if a property is considered a new build, which a property recently 
converted from a commercial to residential use would be, many lenders require a latent 
defect building warranty. A lender is entitled to decide what types of risk it is willing to take 
when it lends, and thats not something this service would normally look to interfere with. When Mr and Mrs O applied for a mortgage, YBS agreed in principle to lend them the 
money. It employed a suitably qualified expert to assess the property and decide whether it 
was suitable security for the amount Mr and Mrs O wanted to borrow. This assessment took 
into account the types of property YBS was willing to lend on and its requirements for new 
build properties. This is normal when a valuation is done. The surveyor concluded the 
property was not suitable security for the mortgage Mr and Mrs O had applied for unless 
YBS requirement for a building warranty was fulfilled.
The vendors of the property Mr and Mrs O bought hadnt purchased a latent defect warranty 
when they converted the property a few years earlier. That was the vendors choice at the 
time, as such insurance products are available for self-build projects. In the circumstances, I 
cant find that YBS was wrong to decline the application due to the lack of a warranty, as the 
property didnt fit with its lending criteria.
I note that Mr and Mrs O consider that by refusing the mortgage, YBS forced them to take a 
mortgage with another lender.  YBS refused to lend on the property Mr and Mrs O proposed 
to buy, that is true, but it was their choice to go ahead with the purchase and to fund it with 
another lender. I cant hold YBS responsible for the consequences of that decision. 
The ERCs were clearly documented in the product offers that were sent to Mr and Mrs O 
before the products were attached to the different parts of their mortgage. They accepted the 
offers and the ERCs that were associated with them, even if they thought, at those times, it 
was unlikely they would have to incur them.
As I have said above, I dont consider YBS acted inappropriately in declining the mortgage 
application for the new property, as the property didnt fit with its lending policy. So when 
Mr and Mrs O paid off their mortgage, it was not unreasonable for YBS to charge the ERCs 
that Mr and Mrs O had accepted as part of the mortgage they had entered into.
As for Mr and Mrs Os concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans 
made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. 
When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its borrowing 
early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
is more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the lenders 
requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will be 
and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
Mr and Mrs O consider the ERC is unfair because it is for more than the amount of interest 
that would have been paid to YBS over the remaining term of the interest rate product, 
especially in light of the fact that most of that interest was offset. As I have explained above 
there are many factors that are taken into account when an ERC is calculated; the loss of 
interest over the remaining term of the product is just one of them. Under the rules, provided 
the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss suffered by YBS if the mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I have seen the evidence of the calculations, although it cant 
be made publicly available as its commercially sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the 
amounts charged in this case were a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the 
charge should be refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs O to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 December 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman