DRN-3466801
The complaint
Miss J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not do enough to protect her from falling victim
to a romance scam.
Miss J has also complained about the actions of the bank where the money was received.
That matter is being considered as part of a separate complaint, so in this decision I am only
looking at the responsibilities of Lloyds.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and Im mindful that
it is difficult for Miss J to have to recollect all of the details of what she has been through.
As such, Ill provide only an overview of only the most essential facts here.
In November 2018, Miss J made a connection on an online dating app with a person Ill refer
to as T. They spoke through the app and met for the first time in person in January 2019.
The relationship progressed from there but broke down in December 2019.
Between March and December 2019, Miss J made around 20 bank transfers totalling more
than £61,000 to T and his sister. The money came from Miss Js savings as well as loans
that shed taken out. Miss J has explained she sent money to T and his family on the
understanding that she would be paid back if the relationship ended. She explains that T
reassured her that this was the arrangement between them.
Miss J says T used the money to repay debts so he could get a mortgage. She adds that
some of the money was used towards holidays and spending money, and also towards a
charity that Ts mother was connected to.
When the relationship came to an end, T did not repay any of the money and he blocked
contact with Miss J.
Miss J says that T was out from the start to take advantage of her. She explains she has
since learned that T has done this to other people and that she has fallen victim to a
romance scam because she unwittingly entered into a relationship with a fraudster who was
very good at emotional manipulation.
Miss J considers that Lloyds should have questioned her about the payments she was
making. She points out that she was moving large sums over money from her account and
was never challenged at any point. Miss J says that if the bank had given her an idea that
something could be wrong, the situation would have been avoided.
Miss J explained these circumstances to the bank and asked Lloyds to refund the money
that shed lost.
Lloyds investigated the matter. It issued its final response in July 2020. It concluded it had no
obligation to refund Miss J. It pointed out that some of the payments were made before the
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code), which sets out circumstances
when a bank should reimburse a customer who has fallen victim to a scam, came into force.
It said the payments Miss J made after the CRM Code came into force were not covered
because the situation between Miss J and T was a civil dispute.
Miss J was unhappy with the banks position and complained to us. Our Investigator
considered the situation. She did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She
didnt think the situation Miss J found herself in had the hallmarks of a typical romance scam.
She thought that T had broken his promise to repay the money so concluded the situation
was a civil dispute rather than a scam covered by the CRM Code. She also thought about
whether any of the payments Miss J made should have been considered out of character or
unusual. But she did not consider Lloyds had missed any obvious red flags. She concluded
that even if Lloyds had made contact to discuss the payments Miss J was making, Miss J
would have most likely explained the funds were going to her partner. The relationship would
have appeared well-established, amicable, and ongoing, meaning it was unlikely that Lloyds
would have had concerns.
Miss J strongly disagreed. She said it was a scam and T was a fraudster who was very good
at what he did. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed afresh by an Ombudsman.
My further investigation
When the complaint was referred to me, I contacted Miss J to discuss it. She said she didnt
want the bank or her ex-partner to get away with what they had done and explained it was
only once she had left the relationship that she was able to see how things had been.
She told me that she had struggled with her mental health both before and after being in this
relationship and that she had been vulnerable. Miss J told me that she had wanted to make
a loving connection with a partner but instead she had been defrauded and was being
dismissed instead of receiving help. She explained that she had been struggling emotionally
and financially in the aftermath of all that has happened and that it is difficult to cope with
dealing with everything.
Miss J told me that she was taking civil court action against T. She explained that one court
case had taken place and a second case was planned but she had not filed the paperwork
yet.
I asked Miss J to send me the paperwork connected to the court cases as they are strongly
connected to the same events that are in dispute here. Miss J sent me a Tomlin Order
showing an agreement had reached where she was to receive money from the
defendants, T and his sister.
I asked Miss J if she had any particulars of claim so I could understand what the money
ordered was for. Miss J explained that she found dealing with all of these different
processes confusing. She explained that the court order from the first court action does not
cover all of the money that she lost which is why there is to be a second case at a later date.
I asked Miss J if there had been any updates or progress with the second court case, but at
the time of writing there I am not aware of any further developments.
My provisional decision
On 12 April 2022 I issued my provisional decision and explained why I was not minded to 
uphold the complaint. I have reproduced my provisional decision in italics below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
My role is to determine whether Lloyds is responsible for refunding the money Miss J has
lost. Having considered everything that both sides have currently said and provided, I cannot
see any basis on which I can fairly instruct Lloyds to take further action or to refund the
money Miss J has sent. I know this is going to be upsetting news for Miss J so I will explain
why.
Did Lloyds deal with Miss Js scam claim appropriately?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Lloyds made
these payments, it was complying with Miss Js instructions.
At the time, Miss J wanted to pay these beneficiaries and there was no mistake made as the
money was sent to those account details. As I dont think Lloyds acted incorrectly by making
the payments, Ive gone on to consider whether it should have refunded Miss J for any other
reason.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Lloyds has
signed up to and was in force for the payments Miss J made from 28 May 2019 onwards.
The CRM Code
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the
circumstances of the later payments Miss J made and, in particular, whether Lloyds ought to
reimburse those because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
The CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received
them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the
supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Neither scam nor civil dispute are defined in the CRM Code, but a scam can ordinarily be
defined as a dishonest scheme. It suggests criminal wrongdoing intended to result in
financial gain. On the other hand, civil disputes are generally those between private
individuals about disputes which sit outside of criminal law.
Both the bank and our Investigator felt the payments Miss J made formed part of a civil
dispute and were not covered by the CRM Code. Miss Js position is that she has been the
victim of a scam because Ts intention from the outset was to deprive her of money.
In order to conclude that the payments Miss J made were part of a scam, Id need to be
reasonably satisfied from the available evidence that T was not legitimate and he had set out
to defraud her. But I dont think I can fairly conclude what Ts motives were from theinformation I will be able to obtain. I dont have the power to compel T or his family to provide
me with evidence, or to cross-examine him or have him cross-examined in order to try and
establish his true intentions. Miss J told me that T and his sister had made an allegation to
the Police that Miss J had been harassing them, so Im mindful that the relationship coming
to an end was potentially difficult and acrimonious for both sides.
Ive not seen enough to be as sure as I would need to be that T was willingly and
intentionally acting fraudulently by deliberately setting out to scam Miss J. I have not seen
sufficient evidence to establish that T fabricated the premise of the relationship in order to
obtain money from Miss J. Im not aware of any criminal investigation into T and the banks
where Miss Js money was sent have said there has not been any other reports of fraud
relating to the account holders.
On balance, I cant safely say this situation meets the high legal threshold and burden of
proof for fraud. It is inherently difficult for a bank or an Ombudsman scheme to determine
whether Miss J was deceived into a false relationship which can only have been for the
purposes of taking money from her or whether it was a genuine relationship that had broken
down. Given that the situation doesnt display the hallmarks most typically associated with a
romance scam, I dont think it was unfair for Lloyds to take the view that the situation formed
part of a civil dispute.
Should Lloyds have done more to protect Miss J from financial harm?
There is no responsibility upon a bank to refund victims of civil disputes. But Miss J has
raised concerns that Lloyds did not do enough to protect her which has contributed to the
overall loss that she has suffered. Shes referred to large sums of money being moved
without any direct contact or challenge from the bank at any stage. So, for completeness,
Ive thought about whether Lloyds should have done more to protect Miss J from financial
harm.
Lloyds did not identify any of the payments Miss J made as being suspicious at the time she
was making them. Ive looked carefully at Miss Js account statements for the six months in
the lead up to when she started making payments to get a clear understanding of how her
accounts typically ran.
Having done so, I can see that Miss J did make larger payments from time to time before
she met T. She had a large sum of money come in connected to conveyancing which she
moved around, she made a large payment to her credit card, she often made payments of
up to £5,000 to regular payees and she occasionally made even larger payments, noting in
particular a payment of £18,000. This means it wasnt out of character for Miss J to be
making large transfers.
Miss J says that if the bank had challenged her payments and made her aware of the risks it
would have uncovered what was happening and prevented further loss. But even if Lloyds
had contacted Miss J, I am not persuaded that the interaction would have aroused any
suspicion that she was being taken advantage of.
If Lloyds has asked Miss J about the payee and the purpose of sending funds, I am
persuaded that she would have told the bank that she knew the intended payee personally,
that they see each other regularly in person and that they were in a romantic relationship.
I dont think the bank would necessarily have been on the lookout for a potential scam risk
when presented with this type of information.
When considering this complaint, I have to think about what I can reasonably have expected
Lloyds to have been aware of and on the lookout for at the time these payments were made.At the point these payments were made the most typical hallmarks of romance scams
involved victims meeting online but not in person, then sending money urgently because of
an emergency. I dont think any of the questions Lloyds could have asked would have
prompted Miss J to give answers that the bank would have found concerning. Im persuaded
the information Miss J would have most likely given about the payments and her connection
to the intended payee would have been sufficient to satisfy Lloyds that she was not at risk of
financial harm from fraud. I think the answers would have been persuasive and plausible.
I do not think it would have been readily apparent to Lloyds that anything might be wrong.
As such, I dont think the banks failure to intervene in the payments has resulted in the loss
Miss J has suffered.
Civil court action
Miss J has told me about the court action that she has undertaken to date and explained that
she has a second case planned for the near future.
Miss J has not provided all of the details of exactly what has already been considered and
what remains outstanding. The court action is highly relevant to the issues at hand here as it
involves the same people and the same potential loss.
I appreciate that the court did not consider whether the financial businesses involved had
any responsibility to refund some or all of the loss, but the court action could still impact my
ability to consider financial loss.
A Tomlin Order is essentially a private agreement, in this case between Miss J and T. There
is limited information in the Order and I am not privy to the information or negotiations that
took place before it was granted. It is unclear how closely the issues that I have been asked
to consider relate to the issues that have been addressed by the Tomlin Order.
It may have already been agreed that some payments are due back but not others. This
could mean that it has been determined that Miss J is not entitled to all of the funds back,
although this is my speculation and I do not know this for sure. I do not wish to issue a
decision that could undermine or contradict the private agreement that has already been
reached in the Tomlin Order.
I appreciate that Miss J isnt seeking to recover more than she has lost. She has pointed out
that the court has provisioned for some of the loss, but the Tomlin Order does not cover
everything. But if there is ambiguity or an omission in the Tomlin Order, it is for the court and
not the Financial Ombudsman Service to resolve this.
Miss Js vulnerability
For the reasons I have explained, there is no basis on which I could fairly ask Lloyds to
reimburse the funds that have been lost. But it remains good practice for Lloyds to
investigate what has happened and to consider whether it would be appropriate to reimburse
some or all of the money on a case by case basis, especially in situations where it is clear
that its customer is vulnerable. Lloyds has considered the difficult situation Miss J is facing
but concluded not to do anything further in this particular case. I have to be fair and
reasonable to both sides in a complaint. I cannot fairly compel Lloyds to do more when the
relevant law, rules, codes and good practice do not say that it should.
Overall
I am very sorry to have to deliver this news to Miss J. I know this isnt the answer she is
hoping for. I cant even begin to imagine how upsetting the last few years have been for her.It is clear that she has been through so much and to reach this point has been a difficult
struggle.
Having considered everything, I currently dont think Lloyds treated Miss J unfairly when it
concluded this was a civil matter. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied Miss J isnt
due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could
say that Lloyds should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for the loss.
It follows that I am not currently minded to make any order or award. I am minded to
conclude that this matter is something that needs to be resolved directly between the parties
through the alternative methods that Miss J has already instigated, if they are able to do so.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or 
arguments that they wanted me to consider. 
Miss J was disappointed with the provisional decision and said it was disgusting. She felt it 
let a con artist and the bank get away with what had happened. 
She went through the provisional decision page by page and added further information. She 
explained that T and his sister used the money towards Ts house and his business. She 
highlighted a potential discrepancy with the sum agreed on the Tomlin Order. 
Miss J explained that the second court case to follow on could not be filled until she 
submitted all of the evidence, which she was finding stressful to do on her own. 
She said the only large payments she made were to T so this was clearly out of character to 
make payments to a payee that she had only just set up. 
Lloyds confirmed that it had nothing further to add at this point and would await the final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Miss J, but her response to my provisional decision has not 
persuaded me to reach a different conclusion.
I do understand that Miss J feels let down and angry. But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, it is inherently difficult for me to find that she has been the victim of a scam. The 
information I have to consider is not enough for me to be able to safely conclude this. 
Despite Miss Js strength of feeling, I cannot be as sure as I would need to be that the nature 
of the relationship between Miss J and T was a premeditated deception where T set out to 
defraud her from the outset. The reasons I gave in my provisional decision, such as not 
being able to cross examine T or his family to try and establish what their intentions or 
motivations may have been; and having seen no evidence of any criminal investigation or 
other fraud reports relating to T and his family, remain unchanged. The fact that T and his 
sister used the money towards a house and a business is not enough, in and of itself, to say 
the situation was a scam. 
Miss J commented that she was making out of character payments to T. But I am still not 
persuaded that intervention from Lloyds would have prevented Miss J from suffering this 
loss. In my provisional decision, I thought the information Miss J would have most likely given about the payments and her connection to the intended payee even if Lloyds had 
challenged would have been sufficient to satisfy the bank that she was not at risk of
financial harm from fraud. I still think the answers would have been persuasive and 
plausible. Miss J had met T in person and they were in a relationship at that time and there 
is no reason to think she would have not told the bank that if it had asked questions about 
the payments as she was making them. I dont think it would have been readily apparent to 
Lloyds that anything might be wrong or that Miss J could be at risk of financial harm from 
fraud. As such, I dont think the banks failure to intervene in the payments has resulted in 
the loss Miss J has suffered.
Miss J highlighted a potential discrepancy in the interpretation of the amount awarded on the 
Tomlin Order. A Tomlin Order is essentially a private agreement and I am not privy to the 
information or negotiations that took place before the Order. I have not seen a copy of the 
claim form relating to the Order and I have not been able to establish exactly what was 
agreed between the parties. I asked Miss J questions in order to understand the basis on 
which the settlement was reached as I did not wish to undermine the private agreement that 
has already been reached. I understand court processes and procedures can be a lot to 
navigate and I am mindful that Miss J is doing it all herself, but it ultimately remains the case 
that any ambiguity or omission in the Tomlin Order is for the court and not the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to resolve.
I appreciate Miss J has lost a lot of money. But for the reasons I have explained here and in 
my provisional decision included above, I cannot fairly or reasonably conclude that Lloyds is 
responsible for refunding the money Miss J has lost. 
I know Miss J will be disappointed with the outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman