DRN-3127593
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to treat multiple water 
leaks in the same pipe as multiple claims instead of one. This has resulted in Mrs and Mr Cs 
cumulative number of accidental damage claims within three years exceeding underwriting 
limits. When it came to renewal Aviva refused to offer a new policy and Mrs and Mr C think 
thats unfair.
What happened
Mrs and Mr C noted water collecting in an area of a field they own (around July 2020). Aviva 
instructed agents to visit the site who identified the leak and carried out a repair. Around four 
months later (November) further leaking in a different part of the pipe was discovered and 
again a repair was carried out. Aviva classified these incidents as two separate claims. Other 
leaks materialised in December.
Mrs and Mr Cs position is that the claims should be dealt with as one claim. They say 
Avivas agents should have exposed more of the pipe on the initial claim and that would 
have revealed the other leak. They also say there were further leaks and they paid for a 
complete length of pipe replacement which has remedied the matter. Mrs and Mr C think its 
unfair to have treated the claims separately and in such a way that renewal of the policy was 
refused.
Avivas position is that it was appropriate to deal with the incidents as separate claims and it 
was entitled to refuse renewal due to the number of claims Mrs and Mr C had made. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had treated Mrs and Mr C unfairly. She considered the 
four months between the first two leaks demonstrated it was more likely than not the second 
leak was a separate incident to the initial one. She explained that the first leak was in the 
summer and if had there been a continual leak from another part of the pipe then it was 
unlikely to have taken four months to become apparent.
The investigator referred specifically to comments from Avivas agents who carried out the 
repair to the effect that when a leak is repaired there is increased pressure in the system and 
it will put pressure on other weak points, and so other leaks may be caused. She was 
persuaded that the two incidents were separate claims and likely to be from separate 
incidents of heavy vehicle movements in the field. 
On whether it was fair not to renew the policy in 2021, the investigator explained that Avivas 
underwriting confirmed renewals should be declined if there are four or more accidental 
damage claims in the last three years. Accidental damage claims were made in 2019, June 
2020, July 2020 and November 2020. She was satisfied this amounted to four accidental 
damage claims in the three years before renewal and so Avivas refusal was within its 
underwriting guide and applied fairly in the circumstances.
Mrs and Mr C disagreed that tests had been conducted when the repairs were carried out as 
it would have revealed the pipe was still leaking. And the leaks that were exposed showed 
small punctures likely caused by sharp stones hence the time taken to discover the leaks. 
The leaks were all in close proximity and more excavation initially should have been carried 
out and handled as one repair. They say the July leak was in a separate location to that 
found around November and December should have been dealt with in one claim. They also 
say they didnt receive Avivas letter explaining that it wasnt going to renew their policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two main issues that lie at the heart of this complaint which I need to determine to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances;
- Was it fair to treat the leaks as more than one claim?
- Did Aviva apply its underwriting criteria fairly when refusing to renew the policy?
The leaks
Mrs and Mr C have accepted that the leak in July was a separate incident to the later leaks. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Im not persuaded that the leaks dealt with in July and then 
November were likely to have been caused at the same time. The four months that passed 
before noticing the later leak is evidence that persuades me they were separate incidents, in 
spite of what Mrs and Mr C think. Theres no persuasive evidence that links the leaks to one 
single incident.
Ive reviewed the report completed by the repairer in July and it clearly states a leak was 
identified through acoustic testing and repaired. And it states that when a leak is repaired 
there is increased pressure in the system and it will put pressure on other weak points, and 
so other leaks may be caused. In November a leak in a different part of the pipe was 
detected through acoustic testing, fixed, the water supply tested which proved no further 
leaks. Im satisfied from this report that there were no other leaks once the leak had been 
fixed. Therefore, further leaks after the November repair could reasonably be treated as a 
separate incident and claim too.
The policy renewal refusal
The reason for refusing renewal was due to the number of accidental damage claims made 
by Mrs and Mr C within three years before renewal in April 2021. 
Two accidental damage claims were made in 2019 and 2020 before the first leak claim in 
July 2020. So, by July there had been three claims in total. The claim in November took the 
number to four and of course there was further leaking in December. I am satisfied that its 
fair of Aviva to treat the leak claims as separate incidents. With renewal in April 2021 its 
apparent that the number of accidental claims within the last three years numbered four and 
so Aviva was entitled to refuse renewal. I dont think it would be fair of me to expect Aviva, in 
this case, to continue to accept any risk at any cost. It set a number of claims it was willing to 
deal with in a period and continue to offer cover, but equally a cut-off point where the 
number of claims within a period exceeded Avivas appetite to continue offering cover. 
Aviva say notification was sent in March 2021 before renewal although Mrs and Mr C say 
they didnt receive this. Im not holding Aviva responsible for any issues with the post being 
received but, in any case, it made no difference to the outcome that Aviva was entitled to 
refuse renewal because of the number of claims made in the previous three years.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman