DRN-2953656
The complaint
Ms H complains that U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) have logged a claim on 
her car insurance policy when they shouldnt have.
 
What happened
In June 2020, Ms H made an enquiry with Direct Line as two of her tyres had blown while 
she was turning a corner. Shes explained that Direct Line said this wouldnt show on any 
database going forward. However when it came to renew her insurance, Ms H noticed a 
claim had been logged in June 2020. 
Ms H said that, as she had paid for the repairs herself, no claim was made. She asked Direct 
Line to remove the claim from all systems, as it would have an impact on her renewals for 
the next five years.
 
Direct Line explained that in Ms Hs policy booklet it states a customer must tell them as 
soon as is reasonably possible about any incident which may lead to a claim. As Ms Hs 
circumstances could have led to an accident, Direct Line said they were unable to remove 
the information from their database. 
Ms H explained that when her tyres blew, she was moving at a very slow pace and turned 
into a quiet road meaning no accident could have been caused. 
In September 2020, Direct Line agreed to update their database to show the claim was 
reported for information purposes only, meaning Ms Hs no claims discount wouldnt be 
affected. They also awarded Ms H £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Ms H remained unhappy as, even though she was able to renew her insurance without her 
premiums being affected, she would still need to show proof of the enquiry when renewing in 
the future.
 
Our investigator was initially of the opinion that Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. She 
explained to Direct Line that having listened to the call that was made, she believed Ms H 
was only calling to make an enquiry, not to log a claim. Even though Ms Hs policy 
documents didnt show a claim had affected her premium, a claim was still showing on the 
database meaning any future insurer would see it. Our investigator recommended that Direct 
Line remove the information from their database and pay Ms H a further £100 compensation. 
Direct Line disagreed. They said that when Ms H called, the only reason a claim wasnt 
made was because the cost to put right the damage was less than the excess. As an 
incident did occur, they believe its right that the information be logged on their system.
 
While they agree a claim wasnt made, this wasnt because a claim wasnt valid, it was just 
below the excess limit. They said it was classed as an accident, which is defined as an 
unfortunate incident that happens unexpectedly and unintentionally, typically resulting in 
damage or injury.
 
They also said that hypothetically, had the damage cost a higher amount to repair and a 
claim made, its reasonable to assume this too would be classed as an accident.
 
Overall, as they feel an accident did happen, it was fair to place the information on their 
database. They said it demonstrates there was no value to the claim and so future insurers 
should base their risk on that information. 
Based on this information, our investigator reviewed the case again and changed her view. 
She explained to Ms H that, even though she had only contacted Direct Line to make an 
enquiry, they were required to log it on their system as a notification. This meant they 
wouldnt be able to remove it. Because of this, our investigator was satisfied Direct Line had 
done enough to put things right for Ms H.
Ms H didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. I will 
explain why. 
In relation to notifying Direct Line about any accidents, Ms Hs policy explains that a 
customer must tell them as soon as is reasonably possible about any incident which may 
lead to a claim. 
When Ms Hs tyres blew, she made the decision to call Direct Line and ask whether the 
repairs would be covered by her insurance. I have listened to the call and it was explained to 
Ms H that, as the cost of the repair was lower than her policy excess, she wouldnt need to 
make a claim.
 
So while a claim wasnt made, Ms H still did call Direct Line to tell them what had happened. 
This means that Direct Line have a duty to record this, but as a notification only. 
I can see that Direct Line has sent Ms H an email explaining what happened and that a claim 
wasnt made. Ms H will be able to show this to any future insurance providers should there 
be any issue around raised premiums or removal of her No Claims Discount (NCD). 
Overall, while I understand a claim wasnt made by Ms H, I cant ask Direct Line to remove 
the notification from their system. They would only be able to do this in exceptional 
circumstances, for example if they had logged it against the wrong person. That hasnt been 
done here. 
While I appreciate this may cause some inconvenience for Ms H in the future, Im satisfied 
Direct Line have done the right thing, and I feel the email will clearly set out to any future 
insurer what the situation is. Im also satisfied the £100 is a fair amount for the 
inconvenience caused. 
  
Because of this I wont be asking Direct Line to do anything further. My final decision
U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) have already offered Ms H £100. I think this is 
fair compensation for the inconvenience caused so I dont think they should pay anything 
further. 
 
They should pay Ms H the £100 if they havent done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman