DRN-3459933
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly blocked and then closed his accounts. He wants 
compensation for the financial loss he says he experienced as a result, and the impact this 
had on him, his family, and his business.
What happened
Mr A held several personal accounts with HSBC, and at times he used his current account 
for business purposes.
HSBC blocked Mr As account in March 2021 to carry out a review. It eventually completed 
its review in February 2022 and decided to release the funds to him and close his accounts.
Mr A remains unhappy that HSBC havent told him why his accounts were blocked. And he 
says not having access to the funds meant he couldnt pay personal and business liabilities, 
including credit cards and contractors, which negatively impacted his creditworthiness and 
business. He says he borrowed money from friends and family, and the problems he 
experienced led to his relationship breaking down, and his mental health being very affected.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. They concluded:
HSBC was able to block Mr As account and its actions were in line with its legal and 
regulatory responsibilities. 
HSBC wasnt obliged to reveal the reasons for its review or update Mr A on the 
progress of its review. 
HSBC hadnt caused undue delay completing the review, and it closed his accounts 
according to its terms and conditions.
Mr A disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached. He asked for a final decision from 
an ombudsman, so his complaint was given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to direct HSBC to pay Mr A compensation. Ill explain why.
HSBC has important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. 
They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know its customer and verify their 
sources of income, as well as detect and prevent other harm.
HSBC will review accounts to comply with its responsibilities. And, its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential financial loss or other harm that could otherwise result. I find HSBC acted fairly by 
blocking Mr As account and it didnt need to tell him the reasons behind its decision or 
forewarn him of its intentions. I find HSBCs reasons were legitimate and the length of time 
the review took wasnt related to him complaining.
I was sorry to hear about what Mr A says happened to him, and its possible some of his 
losses could have been prevented if HSBCs review took less time than it did. But it doesnt 
necessarily follow that HSBC must pay him compensation because he could have limited or 
prevented his losses had he accessed the funds earlier. Instead, I must consider whether 
awarding him compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint.
I have considered very carefully the basis and content of HSBCs account review. And, 
based on all the information I have seen, I dont find awarding Mr A compensation would be 
proportionate or reasonable, even if HSBCs review might have been completed earlier. Mr A 
may want to know the detail of HSBCs review, but it does not need to reveal this 
information. And, I wont be revealing it by virtue of him bringing this complaint.
HSBC could terminate its relationship with Mr A. Generally, our service will not interfere with 
a firm exercising its discretion unless its reasons were plainly unfair or due to an error. But I 
have reviewed why HSBC decided to close Mr As accounts and I find its decision was 
legitimate and in accordance with its terms and conditions.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman