DRN-2114571
The complaint
The executor of the Estate of Mr K (the Executor) has brought this complaint as he is 
unhappy with the compensation HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) has offered to settle a 
complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken by Mr K out 
alongside some loans. 
What happened
Mr K applied for three loans and took out two PPI policies to cover his repayments.  For 
each of the PPI polices Mr K borrowed extra with his loan to pay for the premiums and so 
paid interest on the premium amount. 
The Executor has now complained the PPI was mis-sold to Mr K. HSBC agreed to uphold 
the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and offered and paid £10,210.12 compensation after 
tax was deducted. 
The Executor wasnt happy with the amount of compensation as the letter explaining the 
offer said this was only 50% of the total cost of the PPI with some compensatory interest 
included.  
Our adjudicator said what HSBC paid was fair as the offer letter had an error and the amount 
offered and paid was actually 100% of the compensation. The Executor remains unhappy 
and has asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has agreed to uphold the complaint and pay compensation for the PPI that was mis-
sold to Mr K. So, in this decision Im not looking at how the PPI came to be mis-sold but at 
whether the compensation paid by HSBC is fair.
The offer letter sent out to the estate of Mr K stated that: Based on the information you 
provided, youre entitled to the remaining 50% of the total offer amount. The letter then went 
on to say that a cheque for the amount due of £10,210.12 was enclosed. The Executor said 
that 100% of the compensation was due to the estate and this should be paid. 
HSBC has told us that the offer letter it sent had an error and in fact £10.210.12 was 100% 
of the total compensation, not 50%. HSBC has also provided to us details of the loans Mr K 
took out, the PPI costs associated with those loans and also its calculations as to how it has 
worked out the total compensation due. I am satisfied looking at this information and 
calculations that the compensation offered and paid is fair, refunding 100% of the total 
compensation due, and I shall explain why that is the case.
Mr K took out three loans in total. The first loan was taken out in October 1998. Mr K 
borrowed £15,000 for his own use and he borrowed an extra £2,742.67 to pay for the PPI 
premium. This meant the PPI premium also incurred loan rate interest as it was added to the 
loan. The full loan was to be repaid over 60 months. Mr K made the monthly repayments for 
this loan until November 1999 when he refinanced it. 
Whilst the loan was running Mr K paid a total of £790.61 for the costs of the PPI premium 
and interest. This amount was included in the monthly repayments he made towards his 
loan. In addition to this amount HSBC has worked out 8% simple interest on any amount 
Mr K was out of pocket, from the date he made a payment, to the date of final issue of the 
compensation cheque. This compensatory interest in total was £1,243.47 before tax. HM 
Customs and Revenue require HSBC to deduct basic rate tax from this compensatory 
interest. There was also some 8% interest due on the early repayment charge of £41.37. So 
the total compensation for the repayments made with this loan was £2,075.45 before tax. 
When Mr K refinanced early, the PPI policy was cancelled and before settlement a rebate 
was removed from the loan for the period the PPI didnt run. But this was not a proportionate 
rebate so some of the costs of the PPI from the first loan was carried forward into the 
borrowings Mr K took out in November 1999 to refinance. 
When Mr K refinanced in 1999, he borrowed £17,500 in total for his own use. Due to the 
system procedures at the time this amount was split into two loans one for £10,000 and the 
other for £7,500. Mr K also took out a PPI policy to cover the loan repayments, but this was 
only one policy for the total Mr K wanted to borrow of £17,500. The PPI premium for this was 
£2,759.40 and again this amount was added to what Mr K borrowed in total and so incurred 
interest. Both the loans were set up to run for 60 months but were settled in full in May 2003.
Again, HSBC has worked out what Mr K repaid for the PPI as part of his monthly payments 
for both loans. The amounts include not only what Mr K borrowed and paid in interest on the 
second PPI policy, but also what he repaid for the amount carried forward for the PPI from 
the first loan, including loan rate interest on this. In total Mr K paid £3,951.70 for the PPI and 
the 8% simple interest for the time he was out of pocket was worked out as £5,549.93 before 
tax. This gives a total of £9,501.63 in compensation. 
In total this makes the compensation due to Mr K for both PPI policies £11,577.08 before tax 
and after the tax is taken off it gives £10,210.12. I can see that the offer letter sent to Mr Ks 
estate when the complaint was upheld stated that a cheque for this amount of £10,210.12 
was enclosed.
Having looked at all the evidence, including the calculations of the compensation, I cannot 
see that HSBC has done anything wrong in working out the compensation due to Mr Ks 
estate. Looking at the amount of the PPI premiums, the interest these would have incurred, 
compensatory interest for times he was out of pocket and also taking account of the rebates 
on early settlement, the figures all are in line with what I would expect. So I think the total 
compensation due, that is 100%, is £10,210.12 and that is what has been paid.
HSBC has stated that the offer letter had an error in stating only 50% of the compensation 
was being paid. That would appear to be an error looking at all the figures and what would 
be due for the mis-sold PPI.
So taking account of all the evidence I have seen, I think what HSBC has worked out and 
paid as the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair, and it has paid 100% of the 
compensation due so nothing more needs to be paid. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that HSBC UK Bank Plc has offered to the Estate of Mr K to settle this complaint is fair. 
So, I am not upholding this complaint that any additional compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr K 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman