DRN-3174544
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc have dealt with a claim of mistaken 
identity on her car insurance policy 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 15 November 2021. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute Mrs W was not involved in the incident in question. AXA has liaised 
with third party insurer about this as I would have expected it to
There was a delay in allowing Mrs Ws NCD and providing her with the 
appropriate proof. Her policy renewed in the meantime so this would have caused 
her worry.
AXA incorrectly paid out hire car charges to the third party. Despite agreeing to 
remove the incident from an external database it didnt do so due to the outstanding 
amount not yet having been recovered. I dont think it is fair on Mrs W that AXAs 
error has meant she incorrectly has an incident recorded against her on an external 
database - which more likely than not, has impacted her renewal premiums. I think 
AXA should take action immediately to remove the incident from the database and 
provide Mrs W with a letter confirming this has been done.
Due to the claim outstanding on the database, its possible Mrs Ws more recent 
policy premiums have been calculated on incorrect information. AXA should 
therefore also make the necessary arrangements to allow Mrs Ws past and current 
policies to be recalculated in light of the changed claim status.
AXA has already paid Mrs W £150 compensation. However, considering how long to 
the matter has been outstanding due to AXAs error, it continues to impact her, I 
think it should pay Mrs W a further £200 compensation. (making a total of £350)
  
Responses to my provisional decision
Both AXA and Mrs W agreed with my provisional findings and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed, I see no reason to depart from my original findings and 
decision. I think the case should be upheld for the same reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right AXA should do the following:
- Take action immediately to remove the incident from the external database and 
provide Mrs W with a letter confirming this has been done
- make the necessary arrangements to allow Mrs Ws past and current policies to be 
recalculated in light of the changed claim status
- pay Mrs W a further £200 compensation
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. I direct it 
to put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman