DRN-2707579
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) dealt with a claim 
made against his building warranty.
What happened
Mr D has the benefit of a warranty with NHBC. Shortly after moving into his newly built 
property, he identified a number of faults and reported these to NHBC. A resolution report 
was carried out and a number of faults were identified as needing to be remedied. Several 
updated resolution reports were issued with new deadlines to complete the works. But 
ultimately, a date around the middle of September 2018 was given for the builder to fix the 
problems before the warranty would take effect.
In line with the terms of warranty, Mr D allowed the builder the opportunity to rectify the 
problems but doesnt believe they have done so and has now asked NHBC to take over the 
claim.
Shortly after the deadline for the works to be completed, Mr D accepted a cash settlement 
from the builders for the outstanding works as he was unhappy with the quality of the 
repairs. However Mr D now says that the settlement figure of £21,000 was too low and that it 
will cost around a further £15,000 to complete the works. He says he felt he had no choice 
but to accept the amount that was offered.
In its final response, NHBC stated that all the items in the resolution report had been rectified 
with the exception of a retaining wall. And it noted that Mr D hadnt always received the best 
service so offered him £200 compensation in recognition of any distress and inconvenience 
it had caused.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought that NHBC should take on liability for 
the retaining wall and pay Mr D £500 compensation, which was a better reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience it had caused to him. The investigator didnt think he could 
recommend the £15,000 Mr D had asked for as he hadnt seen any evidence of the extra 
costs  but he thought that NHBC should consider these if Mr D could provide it with 
evidence.
Both parties initially accepted our investigators findings. However after doing so, NHBC saw 
a copy of the settlement agreement and believes it changes the position.
On 1 March 2021 I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
Ive reviewed the resolution report, which states that the builder must complete the 
outstanding work to the property by 17 September 2018. And having reviewed the 
correspondence after that date, it seems clear that there was work still outstanding by that 
point. So, that would be the date that I would expect the NHBC warranty to take effect and 
for NHBC to take on liability for any work outstanding.
However in this instance Mr D reached a settlement with the builder about some of the 
outstanding work that was due to take place and accepted a settlement figure in respect of 
some of the works. It isnt for me to comment on the contract Mr D entered into, rather it is 
my role to consider what I believe to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
The settlement agreement made it clear that Mr D was accepting a sum of money in lieu of 
the builder completing all of the outstanding work except a retaining wall, which it was due to 
return and complete. So taking this into account, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
for me to ask NHBC to take on liability for works that Mr D has already agreed to settle for a 
cash sum directly with the builder.
I realise that Mr D says the sum of money paid to him wasnt enough to cover the 
outstanding works, however I think it would be fair for Mr D to take that up with the builder 
directly as Mr D has previously chosen to settle these items directly with the builder. 
But, its also clear from Mr Ds agreement with the builder that the retaining wall remained 
outstanding and that appears to continue to be the case. The builder stated in the agreement 
that it intended to complete the works, however from the correspondence Ive seen, it seems 
that Mr D and the builder havent been able to progress this matter.
As this item was clearly outstanding after 17 September 2018 and hasnt been remedied 
outside of the resolution scheme, I think its fair and reasonable that NHBC takes on liability 
for correcting the issues with the retaining wall. I say that because under usual 
circumstances, once a builder has failed to comply with a resolution report, NHBC will take 
on liability for the work and I dont think this is any different to that situation. 
NHBC has argued that, as the settlement agreement comments on the wall and includes a 
promise from the builder that it will be done, Mr D has pursued it outside of the resolution 
service. And I have considered its arguments in that regard. However, the settlement 
agreement is between the builder and Mr D  and NHBC isnt a party to it. Therefore, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to exclude NHBC from its liability under the warranty 
when it is clear that the issue hasnt been resolved and that Mr D hasnt accepted any other 
settlement in respect of that aspect of his claim.
I have also considered the issue of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr D as a result of this issue. NHBC was aware the retaining wall wasnt repaired in 
September 2018, when I think it should have taken on liability for the repairs to the retaining 
wall under the warranty. In September 2019 when it issued its final response the wall still 
hadnt been rectified and to my knowledge it remains in need of repair to this date.
I appreciate that NHBC believes the settlement agreement has complicated the matter, 
however I can see that Mr D made NHBC aware of these discussions at the time and NHBC 
could have done more to obtain a copy of the agreement if they had wanted to see it. And in 
addition to this, I think there have been significant delays. So taking all of this into account, I 
think NHBC should pay Mr D £500 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused him through its handling of the claim.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision with additional comments. NHBC said that 
the builder was still willing to carry out the works to the wall but that Mr D was refusing to let 
that happen  so it doesnt think it should have to take on liability for the retaining wall. And 
Mr D responded to comment on the circumstances around his acceptance of the settlement 
from the builder.
The complaint has now been passed back to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that this complaint should be upheld in part. Ill 
explain why.
NHBC has said that Mr D isnt cooperating with the builders, who remain willing to carry out 
the works to the retaining wall and have provided me with some evidence of this. While I can 
see that more recently Mr D has specified that he would like NHBC to carry out the works, I 
can also see that the builder has had several years to carry out these works and Mr D has 
provided them with the opportunity to do this on several occasions. Ive also seen that Mr D 
has moved out of his property while works have taken place in the past. 
Mr D has given the builder significant opportunity to carry out the works and when the last 
deadline for the resolution report passed in September 2018, I think it would have been fair 
and reasonable for NHBC to take on liability for the outstanding works under the warranty as 
it was clear that the builder was taking an unreasonable amount of time. So the comments 
made by NHBC dont change my determination and I remain of the opinion that NHBC 
should take on the outstanding works that havent been settled by the builder  namely the 
retaining wall.
Mr D has made several comments in relation to the circumstances surrounding his 
acceptance of the settlement figure, which he states is far lower than it will cost to carry out 
the works. I sympathise with the situation Mr D found himself in and that he has said he only 
accepted the builders offer as he thought it was the only way he was going to get a 
settlement.
However I also have to consider the nature of Mr Ds buildings warranty with NHBC, which, 
for this section of the policy, only comes into effect if the builder doesnt rectify the issues 
that have been identified in the resolution report. Mr D agreed to a settlement, albeit under 
difficult circumstances, in resolution of most of the outstanding works to his property. He 
signed a settlement agreement with the builder directly that clearly stated the agreement 
was in full and final settlement of the outstanding works. So taking everything into account, I 
remain of the opinion that I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask NHBC to 
take on liability for the cost of the outstanding works that have already been settled directly 
with the builder.
Mr D has asked that I specify that the wall needs to be double thickness, however this isnt 
something NHBC has considered yet so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to make a finding 
until it has reviewed the works that need to happen in order to bring the wall up to NHBCs 
technical requirements. NHBC will only be required to ensure the wall is double thickness if 
that is outlined in its technical requirements.
Mr D has also commented on the distress caused to his daughter by the actions of the 
builders however I cant consider the actions of the builder  only those of NHBC. And as 
neither party has raised any further comments on the compensation I have recommended in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D as a result of NHBCs actions, 
I see no reason to depart from this now.
Putting things right
 NHBC should put things right by:Taking on liability for the outstanding works to the retaining wall
If it hasnt already done so, NHBC should pay Mr D a total of £500 in respect of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. National House-Building Council 
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman