DRN-2316242
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Santander UK Plc are vicariously liable for criminal acts 
committed its employee and say it also failed to keep their personal data safe.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J hold an account with Santander. Mrs J contacted the bank in March 2018 to 
query transactions that she didnt recognise. She was put through to an agent of Santanders 
fraud department (whom Ill refer to as P) and the discussion subsequently became 
relatively heated. However, it was confirmed that Mr and Mrs Js money was safe and the 
call was ended.
Mr and Mrs J then started to receive harassing telephone calls around a week later from an 
unknown individual. Several calls were made in an attempt to threaten and intimidate Mr and 
Mrs J, including the caller alluding to the fact that he knew where they lived. Mr and Mrs J 
reported the matter to the police and it later became apparent that it was P  the agent they 
had previously spoken to at Santander  that was behind the harassing telephone calls. 
P was dismissed from his role at Santander. He was also prosecuted and convicted of 
offences contrary to the Communications Act 2003. 
Mr and Mrs J have said that this experience has caused them severe distress, so much so 
that Mr J had to enter into early retirement  causing a projected loss of earning of around 
£700,000. They complained that Santander is vicariously liable for the acts of P as its 
employee, and that it should also be held responsible for failing to keep their personal data 
safe. As a result, Mr and Mrs J say that Santander should pay compensation up to the 
maximum limit this service can award of £160,000.
Santander did not consider it was liable for Ps criminal acts but offered £3,500 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Mr and Mrs J referred their complaint to this service, 
but Santander didnt think we could look into it as the act complained about did not relate to 
the provision of a financial service, but rather the malicious actions of a former employee.
Our investigator considered that this was a matter that fell within our jurisdiction to decide, as 
Ps acts flowed directly from the ancillary activity of servicing Mr and Mrs Js account. But the 
investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. He didnt think Santander could be held 
vicariously liable for Ps acts, or that there was any evidence that it had failed to keep their 
personal data safe. So he did not think any further compensation should be paid on top of 
the £3,500 already offered. Mr and Mrs J disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me 
to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below.
Santander has not disputed the investigators finding that the matter falls within our 
jurisdiction to consider, and neither has it sought to maintain its objections to us considering 
the complaint. So I do not consider it necessary to set out whether or not this service can 
consider Mr and Mrs Js complaint as it is seemingly no longer in dispute and Santander 
have accepted that we can. 
Vicarious liability
As already set out in detail by the investigator, in order to hold Santander vicariously liable 
for Ps malicious acts I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful conduct was so closely 
connected with the acts he was authorised to do that it can fairly and properly be regarded 
as carried out by him while acting in the ordinary course of his employment (this test for 
vicarious liability has recently been reaffirmed by the Supreme Court in WM Morrison 
Supermarkets plc v Various Claimants [2020] UKSC 12).
Mr and Mrs J submit that the malicious calls were made as a direct consequence of the call 
P took in March 2018 whilst employed by Santander. But while I appreciate the original call 
Mrs J had with P was an act he was authorised by his employer to carry out, this is not the 
malicious call or criminal act that they are now complaining about or seeking to hold the 
bank liable for.
Santander says that P carried out the malicious telephone calls outside of his employment 
on his personal mobile phone. It was not part of his job to call customers outside of his place 
of work, and there is nothing to suggest he was authorised to do so by Santander  or that 
the calls were made with its knowledge. Instead, it seems most likely that Ps actions were 
part of a personal vendetta to intimidate and harass Mr and Mrs J after their initial phone call 
with him in March 2018.
There is no dispute that what P did was a malicious and criminal act designed to harass Mr 
and Mrs J. And I appreciate that his employment with Santander presented him with the 
opportunity to commit the crime as he was allowed access to the personal data of customers 
while carrying out his duties. But the employment merely providing the opportunity for the 
wrongful act is not enough to hold Santander vicariously liable. The telephone calls he made 
from his mobile were not, in my view, so closely connected with the acts he was authorised 
to do that they can fairly and properly be regarded as carried out in the ordinary course of his 
employment. So I do not think Santander can fairly be held vicariously liable for Ps acts in 
this instance or for the financial/emotional impact this has had on Mr and Mrs J.
Did Santander fail to keep Mr and Mrs Js personal data safe?
There is little evidence available to suggest how P recorded Mr and Mrs Js data. But given 
that it was part of his role to have access to personal data when dealing with customers 
(which is presumably how he came to be in possession of it in the first place) there is nothing 
to suggest that Santander have failed to that data safe, as all staff members in a similar role 
would be allowed access to personal customer data for occasions when it is required to be 
processed (e.g. when a customer calls the helpline or if the bank needs to service the 
customers account).
There also doesnt appear to have been any specific or identifiable data breach committed 
by Santander that led to P coming into possession of the data, and neither is there any 
evidence to suggest that they could reasonably have prevented this from happening. It is not 
reasonably foreseeable, for example, that an employee working under contract would commit a crime if given access to personal data thats required as part of their job. And it still 
isnt clear whether P even printed or recorded Mr and Mrs Js data or is still in possession of 
it. For instance, it could be that P simply memorised their personal data/telephone numbers 
to call when he was outside of work. So, I dont think there is anything to suggest that 
Santander have failed to keep Mr and Mrs Js data safe, or that there is any evidence of a 
wider systemic failure to protect its customers data. But if Mr and Mrs J continue to believe 
that Santander is not handling customer data appropriately, they should direct these 
concerns to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
Compensation
Although Santander did not consider it was liable for the incident, it offered £3,500 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill and to try and put things right for Mr and Mrs J. I 
appreciate they may not think this is proportionate to the impact Ps actions have had on 
them. But I consider this to be a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances, particularly 
when there was seemingly not a lot Santander could have done differently to have prevented 
the criminal act from occurring. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs J are also unhappy with aspects of Santanders handling of the 
investigation, and the level of communication they received about what was happening. But 
even if I were to agree with Mr and Mrs J, I do not think this would warrant any further 
compensation on top of the £3,500 offered already. So I will not be asking Santander to pay 
any further compensation in these circumstances.
My final decision
Santander UK Plc have made an offer to pay a total of £3,500.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Mr and Mrs J (if it has not done so already) within 28 days of 
receiving their acceptance of this decision.
Mr and Mrs J should note that if they accept my decision, it will be legally binding on all 
parties, and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for 
additional compensation. If, however, they reject the decision, although their legal rights will 
remain intact, itll purely be a matter between Mr and Mrs J and Santander as to whether the 
£3,500 offer still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on 
the offeror after rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman