DRN-3140961
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums they 
paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs M are represented by their son in bringing this complaint. But for clarity  Ill 
refer to all submissions as being made by Mr and Mrs M directly.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 20 February 2022  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think Great Lakes had acted reasonably 
and fairly in how it deal with Mr and Mrs Ms claim. And I outlined the reasons why I was 
minded to uphold their complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 4 February 
2020 for a cruise which was due to take place from 30 May until 6 June 2020.
Mr and Mrs M paid a total of £77.18 excluding Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard 
level of travel insurance cover, which also cover them for a number of declared medical 
conditions. Mr and Mr M also paid an additional premium of £21.58 (excluding IPT) for cruise 
plus cover.
The cost of Mr and Mrs Ms policy also included a discount of £16.80, which they received at 
the point they purchased their policy. In total, Mr and Mrs M paid £101.71 for their policy 
including IPT.
On 4 May 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes to explain that they were unable to 
travel on their cruise due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They requested the cancellation of 
their policy and a refund of the premium theyd paid.
Great Lakes informed Mr and Mrs M that a full refund couldnt be provided as their 14 day 
cooling off period had expired and, under the terms of their policy, no refund was due. But 
it said they could either change the dates for their policy, receive a pro rata refund by way of 
a voucher, which would be valid for use within 36 months or a 20% discount towards another
policy in the event that the refund was less than £10.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with the offer Great Lakes had made and they complained 
to our service. Their complaint was considered by one of our investigators who set out the 
details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of 
this case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating 
to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt 
make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the 
policy started on 4 February 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time.
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19 
and recommended upholding this complaint. They didnt think Great Lakes refund offer 
was fair and reasonable. In order to put matters right, they recommended that Great Lakes 
calculate Mr and Mrs Ms refund by dividing the price they paid for their policy by the total 
cover length (in days). They thought Great Lakes should multiply that value by the days Mr 
and Mrs M werent on risk. And they thought Great Lakes should refund the cruise plus 
cover that Mr and Mrs M had purchased in full.
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr and Mrs M 
rejected it. They didnt think a voucher was fair because they said they didnt intend to 
travel in the future due to the impact of the pandemic and concerns about their health. Ive 
therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving their 
concerns.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs M and Great Lakes have said. Having 
done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part for the reasons set out already by 
our investigator.
Our investigator asked Great Lakes to recalculate the refund due to Mr and Mrs M from 5 
May 2020, which was the day after they requested the cancellation of their policy. I dont 
think that was correct. My provisional view is that the calculation should include an 
additional day  namely 4 May 2020 because this was the day cancellation as requested. 
For this reason, and in the interests of fairness, I am issuing a provisional decision.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are 
the relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a 
claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium 
will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such 
as a bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions.
Ive considered everything Mrs and Mr T and Great Lakes have said about this 
complaint. And, for ease, Ill break this complaint down into a number parts to explain 
why my provisional decision is as set out below.
Are Mr and Mrs M entitled to a full refund of the premium?  I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to receive a full refund of the 
premiums because:
Cover under their policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate they received. Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs M were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to 
their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel 
insurance policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to 
offer a refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer 
had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not 
returnable.
Mr and Mrs M werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great 
Lakes also covered them for cancellation cover from 4 February 2020. So, the 
premium they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to 
any of a number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, 
Mr and Mrs M falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. 
The examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to 
the individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They 
dont extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid- 19.
When considering single trip policy refund complaints, our service would expect 
Great Lakes to use the date a holiday was cancelled as the date of cancellation 
for a policy. This is because we think any pro-rata refund should be calculated 
from the holiday cancellation date
I can see that our investigator invited Mr and Mrs M to confirm the date their 
cruise was cancelled. But they havent been able to provide an exact date. They 
say their holiday was cancelled on a date between the end of April and mid May 
2020. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes should use 4 May 
2020 as the relevant policy cancellation date as thats the date Mr and Mrs M first 
contacted it to request the cancellation of their policy
Was it fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher?
Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund any premium to Mr and Mrs M. But it used its 
discretion to initially offer them a 20% discount towards the cost of another travel 
insurance policy. It offered this discount because the pro rata refund amount it 
initially calculated was £8.59.
Following our investigators view, Great Lakes agreed to increase its refund 
offer. And it stated that it would make that refund to Mr and Mrs M by pro-rata 
credit voucher as an alternative to a pro-rata monetary refund. Its stated that this offer is valid for use within 36 months. It isnt prepared to offer a cash 
settlement here.
Our service would typically view a voucher refund as a fair resolution to this 
complaint because the validity period provides a reasonable period within which 
a consumer can use it towards future travel insurance policies they may wish to 
take out. So, it isnt unreasonably restrictive. The voucher is also transferrable.
However, here Mr and Mrs M have told our investigator that theyd prefer a pro-
rata monetary refund as an alternative to a credit voucher. Mr and Mrs M have 
told our investigator that theyre unlikely to use the voucher due to concerns of 
how the pandemic may impact their health given their age and pre-existing health 
conditions that were declared when they took out the policy. And I can 
understand why a cash settlement may be preferable in those circumstances.
But I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs Ms health has 
deteriorated to the point that it might preclude future travel. And I can see they 
were prepared to travel in 2020 with the health conditions they declared to Great 
Lakes
So, based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that there are any 
exceptional circumstances that persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-
rata monetary refund. And, in offering a credit voucher when it wasnt obliged to, 
Great Lakes has departed from industry rules and the terms of its policy to the 
benefit of Mr and Mrs M because of the unanticipated and unforeseen events 
surrounding the global Covid-19 pandemic.
However, if Mr and Mrs M wish to provide medical evidence in response to this 
provisional decision that satisfies me that they wont be able to make use of the 
voucher within its 36 month validity period I will, of course, consider it before I 
reach a final decision.
Is the calculation of the refund fair and reasonable?
Ive carefully looked at whether the amount initially offered by Great Lakes to Mr 
and Mrs M was fair and reasonable.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr and Mrs M were given a discount of £16.80 at 
the point of sale. Ive seen the refund calculation formula used by Great Lakes 
when it first calculated Mr and Mrs Ms refund of £8.59. Like our investigator, I 
dont agree this refund led to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.
When Great Lakes initially calculated the refund it offered Mr and Mrs M, this was 
based on it removing the discount they received at the end of the calculation. Its 
starting point was to add the discount onto the price Mr and Mrs M paid. It then 
subtracted the additional cover cost and divided this amount by the 124 days of 
cover Mr and Mrs M had purchased. It then multiplied that sum by the 34 days they 
werent on risk and subtracted the discount theyd received.
Im not persuaded that this calculation led to a fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I can see that Great Lakes has now offered to 
issue Mr and Mrs M with a voucher in line with our investigators recommendation 
as to how it should resolve this complaint and its put forward a revised refund offer. It says the refund for the standard level of cover plus the medical premium is 
£20.18 including IPT. This doesnt include the additional cover option refund, which 
is addressed below.
Ive carefully checked the calculation Great Lakes has provided. But Im not 
satisfied its correct. I say this because Great Lakes revised offer is based on it 
using 5 May 2020 as the cancellation date  I recognise this is the date our 
investigator used in their view. But Ill explain why this isnt right.
As Mr and Mrs M cancelled their policy the day before, the calculation is a day 
short. So, I think Great Lakes should divide the price Mr and Mrs M paid for the 
standard level of cover by the total cover length (124 days). It should then multiply 
that value by the days Mr and Mrs M werent on risk (34 days) as opposed to the 
33 days suggested by our investigator in their view of this complaint.
Should Mr and Mrs M receive a refund of the Additional Cover Option they purchased?
I can also see that when Great Lakes calculated the refund it offered Mr and Mrs 
M it didnt include any refund for the additional cover theyd purchased. I dont 
think that was fair and reasonable.
Ive already mentioned that Mr and Mrs M paid for optional cruise plus cover. 
This provides a benefit to a policyholder in the event of a missed port 
departure, cabin confinement, itinerary change, unused excursions and cruise 
interruption. So, this cover would only have provided a benefit to Mr and Mrs M 
in the event of a claim occurring whilst they were on her holiday. As they didnt 
travel, Great Lakes didnt ever cover the risk of a claim being made under this 
additional cover option. So, it would be fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to 
receive a full refund of the premium and IPT they paid for this cover.
Ive taken into account Great Lakes reasons for not including the premiums paid 
for the additional cover options within its refund calculations. Great Lakes says it 
can be difficult to tell if any additional cover options have been used. However, Mr 
and Mrs M didnt travel on their planned holiday and theres no suggestion any 
claim was made under the additional cover options attached to their single trip 
insurance policy.
Great Lakes has also mentioned situations where consumers purchase 
additional cover options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to 
claim  thus getting extra cover at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im 
satisfied this isnt the case here, as Mr and Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled due 
to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Finally, Great Lakes has said the price of the additional cover options have been 
calculated on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of 
the policy. However, the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single 
trip insurance policy, so I dont think there are any reasonable grounds for treating 
the additional cover option which Mr and Mrs M paid for any differently.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think Great Lakes should refund
£25.90 by voucher, which is the cost Mr and Mrs M paid for cruise plus 
cover including IPT.In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Great Lakes responded providing a calculation outlining what it thought the value of the 
refund should be. It confirmed that it had nothing to add, other than the calculation, in 
response to my provisional decision.  
When Mr and Mrs M responded, they spoke to our investigator to clarify the calculation and 
content of the provisional decision. But, as far as I can see, they didnt provide any evidence 
or submit any representations that I was not already been aware of. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this decision 
in part for the reasons I outlined previously.
I mentioned that, in response to my provisional decision, Great Lakes provided a calculation 
to our service, which it says now recognises that Mr and Mrs M werent on risk for 34 days. 
Having carefully checked this calculation, I can see Great Lakes has correctly taken into 
account the number of days Mr and Mrs M werent on risk from 4 May 2020 onwards  this 
being the correct day for the cancellation of the policy. 
Great Lakes has offered to refund Mr and Mrs M a total of £20.79, which Im satisfied 
equates to 34 days on unused cover from 4 May 2020 until the date the policy would have 
ended had it run its full term. It has also reaffirmed its offer to refund them £25.90 for the 
unused additional cover option they took out when their policy was purchased. These two 
sums bring the total refund due to Mr and Mrs M to £46.69. I can see that Great Lakes hasnt 
departed from its previous offer to issue a credit voucher refund.
In my provisional decision, I invited Mr and Mrs M to provide medical evidence showing that 
their health had deteriorated to the point that it might preclude future travel to enable me to 
reconsider whether the refund from Great Lakes should be by way of cash settlement 
instead of a voucher. They havent provided any evidence in response to that invitation. So, I 
remain persuaded that its fair and reasonable here for Great Lakes to offer a credit voucher 
refund.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that the refund offered by Great 
Lakes in response to my provisional decision is correct and in line with the way in which I 
said I had intended to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, my final decision is that it would be reasonable and fair for Great 
Lakes to issue a voucher refund to Mr and Mrs M in the sum of £46.69.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve the complaint that Mr and Mrs M 
brought to our service, Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman