DRN-1674238
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt pay him enough for his 
written-off car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Advantage offered Mr M £1,125 for his car, having checked the valuations set out in three of 
the national trade guides. The offer reflected the highest valuation shown in the guides. Mr M 
said his car was worth £1,700 and that he couldnt replace it with the sum offered.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. She checked the trade guide 
valuations, including the one shown in the fourth national trade guide. She found that the 
sum Advantage had offered Mr M fell within the range of valuations set out in all the guides. 
As the investigator thought Advantage had acted reasonably, she didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. Mr M asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman. He also sent us an 
advert hed found for a car he thought was like his that was on sale for £1,995.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont value cars, but we consider whether an insurer has acted reasonably in arriving at 
an offer. Mr Ms policy says Advantage will pay the market value for a vehicle thats written-
off. We think the best way to establish a cars likely market value is to look at the valuations 
provided in the national trade guides. Those figures are based on extensive national 
research about the likely selling prices of cars. 
Advantage followed our approach and weve confirmed that the figures it found were correct. 
The valuation in the fourth national trade guide was £1,195, which is marginally higher than 
the sum Advantage offered Mr M, but is well in line with it. 
Mr M says his car was insured for £1,700. But that figure is only the sum Mr M estimated the 
car was worth when he bought the policy. Advantage wasnt required to take it into account 
when establishing the cars market value.
I can see why Mr M thinks his car was worth more than the sum he got for it. I have no 
reason to doubt that it was well-maintained, and that the engine was in good condition. Mr M 
says hes carried out many hours of research into recent car sales on the internet and has 
much experience of buying and selling cars. And he found an advert for a car he thought 
was like his that was on sale for much more than he got for his car. So he thinks Advantage 
misrepresented what his car was worth, in order to pay out less than it should have done. 
As Ive said above, we checked that the valuations Advantage relied on were right. The trade 
guide figures reflect the value of cars that are in good condition. We think theyre the most 
reliable source of information about the likely market value of vehicles. 
We dont usually give much weight to the prices set out in adverts. They reflect asking 
prices, which are unlikely to be achieved in most cases. Its also the case that small 
differences between cars that seem similar can make a substantial difference to their values.   
In an email sent to us before I reviewed his complaint, Mr M emphasised that the accident 
was non-fault, so it appears that he may dispute the way Advantage dealt with liability. But 
that has no effect on the cars valuation - and it isnt part of this complaint. If Mr M wants to 
pursue the issue, hell need to contact Advantage about it.
In my opinion, Advantage acted fairly and reasonably in the way it dealt with the valuation of 
Mr Ms car, so I cant uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman