DRN-3811677
The complaint
B, a partnership, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc trading as Ulster Bank has 
wrongly been applying charges for a current account and credit card which affected its 
payments to a loan.
What happened
B took a loan in 2018 from Ulster Bank. It had transferred its banking to another financial 
business, and it says a credit card account should have been closed. B says it had been 
using its account at Ulster Bank solely to service the loan and so shouldnt have incurred any 
account charges in line with the loan agreement.
Ulster Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. Bs bank account had been opened in June 2002 
and was subject to fees and charges. It told B in response to the complaint that if it was 
using the account solely to make payments then it should contact the relationship manager 
about setting up a servicing account. It said that the credit card account had been opened in 
2004 and had been used until December 2010. It didnt agree that prior fees should be 
refunded but it refunded the most recent fee and arranged to close the account. Ulster Bank 
explained that the payment for the loan had been returned in months when there were 
insufficient funds. Although money had been credited by B for the loan payments the 
charges had been applied. And so, payments had been marked late or missed and this was 
reflected in letters sent to B.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he didnt think 
that Ulster Bank had made a mistake. Bs account was a current account and not a servicing 
account and hadnt been opened for that purpose. The charge for the credit card and for 
account fees had been made correctly. And at times Ulster Bank had refunded certain fees 
as a gesture of goodwill. He didnt see evidence that a request had been made to close the 
credit card account before the complaint dealt with in June 2022.
B didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. B said that the pre contract loan 
information clearly stated that thered be no charges for an account used to service the loan. 
That was the evidence to support the complaint. The account was only for this purpose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that B has quoted from an extract of undated pre contract information in relation to 
the loan. This states that there would be no charges for a current account opened with us 
for the sole purpose of servicing the Loan repayments. Bs current account wasnt opened 
for that purpose as it was an existing account. And Im going to quote from the terms that 
were part of the actual loan agreement signed on 27 June 2018 by the partners. At section 9 
(Method of Payment) this states:
(A) If the Customer maintains a current account with the Bank then the Bank shall debit 
the Repayments, interest and any other amounts payable by the Customer under this 
Agreement to such current account. The periodic statement of account for the 
account servicing the loan will show the amounts of such sums debited under this 
Agreement.
(B)If the Customer does not maintain a current account with the Bank then the 
Customer will be required to make such arrangements as the Bank may require, 
including, without limitation, (1) the opening of a feeder account (not being a current 
account) for the purpose of collecting funds for the Repayments and to which the 
Bank shall debit interest and any other amounts payable by the Customer under this 
Agreement (whether or not this results in an overdrawn balance on such feeder 
account) or (2) the maintenance of alternative payment instructions acceptable to the 
Bank in respect of Repayments. Interest on any overdrawn balances on such feeder 
account will be charged at the rate applicable to the Loan.
The information provided from the relationship manager involved with the financing is that 
she dealt with a financial advisor of B and that no statement had been made that there 
wouldnt be any charges on the existing current account.
I also note that as our investigator has referred to there have been refunds of some fees on 
a goodwill basis over time. It seems from the current account statement that the first was on 
17 December 2018. And so, I think from this and from the periodic notification of charges on 
the account that B would reasonably have been able to raise the issue earlier if it believed a 
feeder account or other arrangement ought to have been established. The account being 
charged is the original current account, not a feeder account and I dont see that any errors 
in applying charges have been made. Or that Ulster Bank didnt have a basis to return items 
when there were insufficient funds and tell B about this and the impact on the loan payment 
history.
I dont find on the evidence that the credit card fee had been charged and then applied by 
direct debit to the current account incorrectly. The information is that this had been done 
annually including from 2018 onwards.
I appreciate that based on the documentation and what Ulster Bank has said that there 
seemed to have been an opportunity to avoid the fees and charges especially when B 
changed its banking arrangements. But Im afraid I dont see evidence to support that the 
necessary action was taken or requested by B and so I dont find that Ulster Bank has made 
a mistake or acted unfairly. I wont be requiring it to do anything further here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman