DRN-2200049
The complaint
This is a complaint that Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to Ms G. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. Canada Square sold Ms G 
the policy at the same time that she applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Ive looked at the possible ways the PPI could have been mis-sold, but I dont think theyre 
applicable to this case:
I think Canada Square made Ms G aware that the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it  I can see that the online process required a customer to make a 
choice.
Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Gs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It was up to Ms G to decide. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I dont think full information about costs and benefits is 
likely to have affected whether Ms G took the PPI and make her change her mind 
about taking it  in her circumstances, its unlikely it would have made the PPI seem 
less useful. The PPI would potentially have paid out for longer than her full sick pay 
from her employer lasted. And it seems she didnt have significant savings to fall 
back on  and even if she had, the PPI could have protected her financial position for 
longer. Also, it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
My final decision
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, and so Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman