DRN-3764100
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) froze his account without warning and then 
told him they were closing his account.   
What happened
Mr F held an account with Monzo opened in 2020. 
In or around August 2021, Mr F says Monzo froze his account without any advance warning. 
He says they didnt provide any explanation for their actions which left him without access to 
funds. 
Mr F then received a letter from Monzo. They said that after careful review, theyd decided to 
close his account with two months notice. Monzo said his account would close in October 
2021 and he should ensure his account balance was £0 by that date.
Mr F contacted Monzo to find out why theyd frozen his account and why they were closing 
it. He says Monzos customer support team were unhelpful, so he decided to complain about 
their actions and the service hed received. He wasnt happy theyd decided to close his 
account. He told Monzo that their decision to freeze his account meant he was unable to eat 
for several days and this had caused him inconvenience and distress.
Having considered Mr Fs complaint, Monzo wrote to Mr F at the beginning of September 
2021. They said they were unable to uphold his complaint as theyd correctly followed their 
internal procedures and remained compliant when freezing his Monzo account and deciding 
to close it down.
Mr F wasnt happy with Monzos response, so, he decided to refer his complaint to this 
service. Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think Monzo 
had acted fairly. They said that Monzo had accepted funds into Mr Fs account which they 
shouldve allowed him to withdraw. But our investigator didnt think Monzo had acted unfairly 
in deciding to close Mr Fs account. Our investigator thought Monzo should pay 
compensation of £100 to Mr F for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr F agreed with our investigators findings and was willing to accept the proposed 
compensation.
Monzo didnt agree with our investigators findings. They said theyd handled Mr Fs account 
in line with their requirements as a bank and their decision to freeze it was appropriate in the 
circumstances.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Fs complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
In doing so, I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I 
issued a provisional decision on 5 October 2022  giving both Mr F and Monzo the 
opportunity to respond to my findings below before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when 
considering Mr Fs complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. 
Its also not our role to ask a business to alter its procedures or processes or impose 
improvements on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall 
firmly within the remit of the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and 
reasonable in the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the 
individual circumstances of Mr Fs experience with them. When considering their 
complaint, Ive also considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the 
FCA in their handbook  where they apply. 
In their response to Mr Fs complaint, Monzo explained that we were reviewing 
some information on your account recently which caused it to be frozen for an 
extended period of timewe will only freeze accounts when we absolutely have to. 
As a regulated bank we will sometimes need to freeze accounts in this way, but we 
always try to get things sorted out as quickly as possible.
Monzo have provided this service with a detailed explanation of the reasons that 
prompted them to undertake an account review and apply the account freeze. Monzo 
were following their own policies and procedures based upon those circumstances at 
the time. And while I accept this will have caused Mr F some inconvenience and 
distress, I dont believe the basis of their decision was unreasonable.
Unfortunately, due to the sensitive nature of Monzos review together with the 
reasons for it, Im unable to provide Mr F with any more information or details  that 
wouldnt be appropriate here. And for that reason, Monzo also werent able to provide 
Mr F with a detailed explanation either. 
Ive carefully thought about the impact Monzos decision had upon Mr F. I would like 
to reassure him that Ive considered Monzos explanations very carefully together 
with his own situation. And while Im extremely sorry to hear about his struggles; I 
cant reasonably say that they did anything wrong. Their reasons appear justified and 
it wouldnt be appropriate for this service to challenge those, even in these 
circumstances.
As regards their decision to close his account, Monzo provided Mr F with two months 
notice of this. This service believes that any notice should give enough time so that 
the account holder can manage their money. We generally suggest that 30 days 
notice is reasonable, although here, Monzos terms and conditions say 60 days. 
Ultimately, notice to close is a commercial decision for Monzo. In the same way a 
consumer can choose who they wish to open an account with, Monzo is able to 
decide who it wishes to hold accounts for. Thats not something this service is able or 
would want to dictate or influence.
While I appreciate that Mr F will be disappointed, on this occasion I dont agree with 
our investigators findings. So, I dont intend to uphold his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Monzo confirmed they were happy to accept the 
outcome and added no further comment.
Mr F responded explaining that he didnt agree with my provisional decision but didnt add 
any further evidence or information for me to consider.
I appreciate that Mr F feels very strongly that Monzo acted wrongly when they froze his 
account. Monzo froze his account for a total of eight days after which he was free to use it up until the date of closure. As Ive explained in my provisional decision, the sensitive nature of 
Monzos review means Im unable to expand upon their reasons in any detail.
I appreciate how frustrating this must have been for him. All I can do is reassure Mr F that 
Ive considered the circumstances of his complaint very carefully together with Monzos 
explanation. And as I previously explained, Monzos reasons appear reasonable and 
justified. So, Ive found no reason to vary from my original findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman