DRN-4345748
The complaint
Mr M and Ms S complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of claims 
they made under their home insurance policy. 
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agent. 
What happened
In late 2022, Mr M and Ms S arranged for a new kitchen to be installed in their home. Prior to 
this, theyd received information from their water supply company which suggested there 
might be a leak in the property. Mr M and Ms S say they looked into it, but a leak couldnt be 
found. However, there was a damp smell in their kitchen, and they found that their walls 
were wet. So, they decided to replace the kitchen.
Around a month after the new kitchen was installed, Mr M and Ms A found that their washing 
machine valve was leaking. They contacted Admiral to make a claim for the damage it had 
caused. 
Admiral arranged for surveyors to assess the damage. It accepted the claim but initially told 
Mr M and Ms S that it would only pay £1 towards repairs costs after the £750 excess had 
been deducted. However, it later increased the cash settlement offer for reinstatement to 
£3,750 (less the excess). 
Mr M and Ms S told Admiral that their kitchen fitter thought the previous escape of water was 
also due to the washing machine valve. Admiral told them that the previous damage could 
only be considered as a separate claim. But Mr M and Ms S disagreed. They thought it 
should be considered under the same claim as they believed the cause was the same.
Mr M and Ms S raised a complaint with Admiral about this as well as the settlement offer, 
and some customer service issues.
Admiral acknowledged some of the customer service issues Mr M and Ms S had raised and 
paid them £225 compensation. However, it didnt agree that the original damage to the 
kitchen should be considered under their first claim. And it said it was unable to see any 
errors with the settlement offer.
Admiral referred to policy conditions that said policyholders must not agree to run up costs or 
dispose of or destroy any items that are damaged without its agreement. It didnt think the 
photographs Mr M and Ms S had provided were enough to validate their claim for the first 
leak, but it said it was willing to consider further evidence. It said the settlement offer would 
cover the cost of repairs to damage caused by the second leak and this would be its limit of 
liability.
Mr M and Ms S remained unhappy and asked our service to consider their concerns. 
Mr M says that Admiral contacted him and encouraged him to go ahead with a second claim 
(for the first incident). He says he was told the claim was validated, but two months later 
Admiral said it wasnt going to pay anything because its surveyors hadnt had the opportunity 
to review the earlier damage. 
I issued a provisional decision on 7 September 2023, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr M and Ms Ss complaint in part. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr M and Ms Ss complaint in part. Ill 
explain why.
Claim for first incident 
Admirals records show that Mr M and Ms S first contacted it about an escape of water claim 
in December 2022. They made a claim for damage that occurred following the installation of 
their new kitchen. They told Admiral that the valve from the washing machine wasnt 
installed properly.
Mr M and Ms S say they hadnt been able to establish what was causing the damp in their 
kitchen prior to it being replaced. After the second leak, they realised that the issue was also 
due to the washing machine valve.
Mr M and Ms S feel that Admiral should have considered the damage that occurred prior to 
the new kitchen being installed as part of the claim they made in December 2022 because 
they believe the cause was the same. 
Admiral has given conflicting information about what it believes to be the likely cause of the 
first incident. But, regardless of the cause, Im satisfied that there were two separate escape 
of water incidents. So, I think its reasonable for Admiral to consider these to be two separate 
claims.
Mr M says Admiral contacted him, whilst his complaint was with our service, to encourage 
him to proceed with a claim about the first incident. He says it told him the claim had been 
validated and it was deciding on the settlement. However, two months later it told him it 
wasnt going to pay anything because its agents hadnt had the opportunity to validate the 
damage before the refit of his kitchen.
Admiral says it didnt encourage Mr M to make a claim for the first incident, it only advised 
him of the options available. It says its surveyors had reviewed the photographs Mr M 
provided and they werent sufficient to validate the claim.
 
Its possible that Admiral gave Mr M confusing messages about the process regarding his 
claim for the first incident. However, Mr M had indicated that he wanted Admiral to consider 
his loss from the first incident. And I dont think Admiral would have been in a position to tell 
him the outcome of his claim before it had the opportunity to review any additional 
information Mr M wanted to provide. So, I dont think Mr M and Ms S have lost out as a result 
of any unclear communication from Admiral.
The policy terms and conditions say that if a policyholder is involved in any type of claim or 
loss they must not:
agree to or run up any costs without our agreement before any work startsdispose of or destroy any items that are damaged, until we agree that you can
The terms and conditions also say:
Do not get rid of a damaged item (unless it could cause harm) as it could help us settle your 
claim faster. If you do not provide everything we need, it could mean we do not pay your 
claim or we reduce the amount you can claim for.
Mr M says there was mould on the walls and kitchen cupboards were damaged by the first 
leak. It was necessary to try to fix the mouldy wall which would have affected his familys 
health. The only way to do this was to take down the kitchen it had already damaged.
Admiral says it would have looked at cleaning and drying the areas with mould on the wall if 
Mr M and Ms S had made a claim after the first incident. New tiles and plaster would not 
have been required to put them into their pre-loss condition.
Admiral says the policy would only have covered the replacement of items damaged by the 
incident. The images Mr M provided didnt show any damage to cupboards. The images had 
also been reviewed by its external and internal surveyors and they werent sufficient to 
validate the claim.  
I appreciate Mr M feels that the photographs hes provided should be enough to validate his 
claim. But, having reviewed the photographs hes shared with our service, Im not persuaded 
that they do. Given what it says in the terms and conditions, I dont think it was unfair for 
Admiral to have declined the claim.
Ive explained why I think it was fair for Admiral to consider the two incidents as two separate 
claims. Im also satisfied that Admiral took steps to try to validate the second claim (for the 
first incident) by arranging for the further information Mr M had provided to be reviewed by its 
external and internal surveyors. So, I think its fair for the claim to be recorded as a declined 
claim. 
I appreciate it was disappointing for Mr M and Ms S to have their claim for the first incident 
declined by Admiral. Mr M says this took around two months and he made several calls for 
updates. I dont doubt that Mr M experienced some frustration and inconvenience. But I dont 
think the impact was enough to require Admiral to pay compensation for this.
Cash settlement 
The policy terms and conditions say:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding, repairing or replacing any damaged part of the buildings 
covered under this policy.
We will decide how to settle your claim. If we decide not to rebuild or repair the damage, we 
will pay either:
the amount by which the property has reduced in value because of the damage, or
the estimated cost of repair, whichever is lower.
Mr M says he arranged for repairs to be carried out to his property after receiving a cash 
settlement from Admiral, but this wasnt enough to cover the cost of the works.
Admiral didnt agree to our investigators recommendation to increase the settlement. It said 
it had already paid up to the limit of its liability.Admirals notes show that it paid Mr M and Ms S a settlement of £3,750 (minus the £750 
policy excess) for reinstatement works in March 2022. It looks like there was some 
discussion with Mr M about why this was less than the amount Mr M had been quoted for by 
his own supplier. However, theres nothing to suggest that Admiral offered to have the work 
carried out by its own contractors.
Admiral appears to have based its settlement offer on its repair network rates. I dont think 
its fair for Admiral to have limited the cash settlement to what it would have paid its own 
contractors to carry out the work, when it appears to have been its decision to make a cash 
settlement. The rates an insurer pays its approved contractors tend to be below market 
rates, so its unlikely that the settlement Admiral paid would have been sufficient to indemnify 
Mr M and Ms S for their loss. 
Its possible that Mr M and Ms S could have got the necessary work done for a lower price if 
theyd got a quote from a different contractor. However, I cant see that Admiral suggested 
this when negotiating the settlement offer. 
I wouldnt have expected Mr M and Ms S to have delayed getting repair work completed 
whilst awaiting the outcome of their complaint. Under the circumstances, I think it would be 
fair for Admiral to cover the full costs of the reinstatement works (less the policy excess). 
The quote Mr M has provided for the works is for £5,232. As Admirals settlement was based 
on reinstatement costs of £3,750, I think it would be fair for it to pay Mr M and Ms S a further 
£1,482 to indemnify them for their loss. It should also add interest at 8% simple per year to 
compensate them for the time they were deprived of the money.
Customer service
In its response to Mr M and Ms Ss complaint, Admiral acknowledged some issues in the 
customer service it provided them. I think the £225 its paid them fairly recognises any 
distress and inconvenience they were caused as a result. So, I dont intend to award any 
further compensation for this.
I set out what I intended to direct Admiral to do to put things right. And I gave both parties 
the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr M said he was happy with the outcome if Admiral was. 
Admiral said it had reviewed my findings and accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to change them.
Putting things right
Admiral should:Pay Mr M and Ms S an additional £1,482 for the reinstatement works.
Add interest to the above at 8% simple per year* calculated from the date Admiral 
paid the cash settlement (in March 2023) to the date the additional amount is paid.
*If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M and Ms S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M and Ms S a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr M and Ms Ss complaint and direct Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman