DRN-1347652
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car he acquired with finance from FirstRand Bank Limited (trading as 
Motonovo) isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr J was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Motonovo.
Within the first few weeks Mr J noticed that the brakes were screeching. In February 2019 a 
main dealer looked at the car and told Mr J that the brake discs and pads needed replacing.
Mr J contacted the supplying dealer, who said it would arrange for repairs. The car was sent 
by the supplying dealer to a third party garage for repair.
When Mr J collected the car the brakes were still screeching. He contacted the third party 
garage, who told him that the supplying dealer had only authorised repairs to the front brake 
pads, even though the rear brake pads also required replacement. Mr J contacted the 
supplying dealer but it refused to pay for further repairs.
Mr J complained to Motonovo. It told Mr J not to have any more repairs carried out until it 
had inspected the car. In May 2019 Motonovo told Mr J it wasnt upholding his complaint. It 
said the car had passed an MOT in December 2018 which meant it was fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. It also said that when  the car was inspected in April 2019 it had covered 
around 6000 miles since the point of supply and that because brake pads and discs were 
wear and tear items, it thought the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants Motonovo to 
cover the costs of replacement brake pads and discs.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that because the car was supplied as 
a used car, there was an expectation that some parts of the car might have suffered wear 
and tear. She thought the brake discs and pads were worn when Mr J took the car to the 
main dealer in February 2019 but not worn to the extent that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
Mr J didnt agree. He said the repairing garage had found front and rear pads worn at 80% 
and queried why, if both were equally worn, only one set was replaced. Mr J also said the 
diagnosis of the discs as amber and lipped after only two months of driving the car was 
evidence of a problem at the point of supply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Motonovo has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid.
I would expect a second hand car, such as that supplied to Mr J, to have a degree of wear 
and tear. So, in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there was an 
inherent fault with the brakes and discs on the car, as opposed to issues caused be general 
wear and tear. 
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that it 
was present at the point of supply and its generally up to the business to put thigs right. After 
6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that there was  
fault at the point of supply. 
Mr J and Motonovo disagree about whether the car had a fault. In order to reach a decision, 
I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the balance of probabilities, 
whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Ive reviewed the information provided by the dealer who saw the car in February 2019. The 
front pads were measured at 5mm and the rear pads were measured at 4mm. Both sets of 
discs were found to be lipped. The dealer said that the discs were amber, meaning not 
requiring immediate replacement. The dealer also said that brake pads wouldnt normally be 
replaced until they had completely worn down. 
Ive also reviewed the report from the third party garage who carried out the repairs in April 
2019. This says the front and rear pads were at 80% worn and that all discs were lipped.
Ive taken into account the age and mileage of the car. At the point of supply the car was 3 
years old and had covered 46,000 miles. Ive already said that Id expect a used car to have 
a degree of wear and tear. In particular, I wouldnt expect component parts on a used car to 
be in as new condition. Its reasonable to expect a used car to require replacement parts 
and/or repairs sooner than a new or nearly new car. 
Im satisfied that the brake pads were worn when the main dealer looked at the car in 
February 2019. Mr J had been driving the car for around 2 months by then and had covered 
over 4000 miles. Because of the significant mileage covered since the point of supply, I cant 
be certain that the brake pads were worn at the point of supply. In other words, I think Mr J 
must accept some responsibility for wear and tear to the brake discs and pads.
Whilst Im able to agree that by February 2019 the brake pads were worn and the discs were 
lipped, Im unable to conclude that this was a point of supply fault. Theres no evidence that 
the brakes or discs had inherent defects. Simply because a component part is showing signs 
of wear and tear doesnt mean it is faulty or that the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
Based on what Ive seen, and although I agree that there was wear and tear to the brake 
pads and discs, Im not persuaded that there was an inherent fault. I think the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply because Mr J was able to drive it for 2 months/4000 
miles and even then, the pads were only 80% worn, as opposed to requiring immediate 
replacement. 
Although the supplying dealer paid for the front pads to be replaced, I dont think it was 
under any obligation to do this. I see this more as a gesture of goodwill as opposed to an 
acknowledgement of a fault.Ive taken into account what Mr J has said about the pads and discs never having been 
changed before the car was supplied to him. I havent seen the full service history of the car 
so Im unable to say whether this is correct or not, but in any event, it doesnt change my 
view about these issues being due to wear and tear.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman