DRN-3271904
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C, Miss C and Miss C are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great 
Lakes) has declined their travel insurance claim.
Mrs C is the lead complainant on this complaint, so, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs C only 
throughout this complaint. 
Any reference to Great Lakes includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mrs C purchased a single trip travel insurance policy on 29 February 2020. The policy is 
underwritten by Great Lakes. Mrs C was intending on travelling to their destination with her 
family from 30 July 2020 to 3 August 2020. Due to the rise in concerns about travelling 
because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the event which they were due to attend at their 
destination was cancelled to spectators and moved by a further two weeks. Mrs C therefore 
cancelled their trip. She received a refund for the accommodation shed booked and the 
event they were due to attend. But the flight provider said they werent due a refund.
Mrs C made a claim on her travel insurance policy for the cost of their flights which werent 
refunded. Great Lakes assessed the claim but declined it. It said the event which led to her 
cancelling their trip wasnt covered as a listed event under their policy. Unhappy with Great 
Lakes, Mrs C brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it. She didnt uphold the complaint as the reason for the trip 
being cancelled wasnt listed as insured event. She didnt think Great Lakes had done 
anything wrong.
Mrs C disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
Mrs C says the only reason the trip was cancelled was because the event they were due to 
attend wasnt going ahead as planned and at the time they were due to be at the destination. 
The event was moved to two weeks later and was not going to allow live spectators. They 
could not have therefore travelled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy as these form the basis 
of the travel insurance contract with Great Lakes. 
Page 45, Section 2 of the policy document sets out what is covered in the event of a trip 
being cancelled. This says:
   What IS covered:
1. Unused non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation expenses which
you have paid or are contracted to pay;
.
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Policy limits and excesses
table for the level of cover you have selected, for your share of the cost of
your trip as a result of:
The death, injury or illness, as certified by a medical practitioner, of you, our relative 
or colleague or travelling companion or a friend or relative with whom you had 
arranged to stay; or
Your attendance at a court of law as a witness (except as an expert witness) or for 
Jury Service where postponement of the Jury Service has been denied by the Clerk 
of the Courts Office; or
You or your travelling companion is a member of the Armed Forces, Police, 
Ambulance, Fire or Nursing Service and authorised leave is cancelled due to an 
unexpected emergency or a posting overseas at the time of your trip; or
You or your travelling companion are instructed to stay at home (within 14 days of 
your departure date) or return home by a relevant authority due to severe damage to 
your home or place of business in the UK caused by serious fire, explosion, storm, 
flood, subsidence or burglary; or
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) declaring either of the following:
 Your compulsory quarantine preventing you from travelling
 Your destination is unsafe to visit and they advise against all or all but 
essential travel; or
Your redundancy or that of your travelling companion or your spouse (including a 
civil partner or co-habitee) notified to you after the purchase of this policy or after the 
date the trip was booked, whichever is the later; or
Your cancellation of the trip as a result of a travel delay under Section 5: Travel 
delay and missed departure where the delay is in excess of 12 hours at your first 
international departure point from the UK.
Based on the above, the situation that Mrs C and her family found themselves to be in isnt 
covered under their policy. 
Ive also considered the terms and conditions on page 74, Section 11 
A. Cancellation and cutting short your trip is extended to include the following:
What IS covered:
a. if you were not able to travel and use your booked accommodation; or
b. if the trip was cut short before completion as a result of
i) the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the
World Health Organisation (WHO) or similar body issuing a directive:
1. prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to; or2. recommending evacuation from the country or specific area or event to 
which you were travelling providing such directive came into force after you 
purchased this insurance or booked the trip (whichever is the later), or in the 
case of cutting short your trip after you had left the UK to commence the 
trip;
..
Having considered this section, I cant see that the reason for cancellation of the trip is 
covered. There was no advice from the FCO not to travel to the destination Mrs C and her 
family were intending to travel to. As such there is no cover for the cancellation under this 
section either. 
Has the claim been declined unfairly?
I realise the reasons that Mrs C cancelled the trip and that there was a lot of uncertainty at 
the time. The trip was also a special one for the family. I understand the event had been 
moved to a later stage and also wasnt going to allow spectators. But while I appreciate the 
reasons given for the cancellation, the event still went ahead and there were no travel 
restrictions for their destination at the time they were due to travel on 30 July 2020. The 
country was also exempt from the FCO advice against all but non-essential travel at the 
time.
Overall, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but having taken everything into account, I dont think 
Great Lakes declined her claim unfairly. Im not persuaded the claim is covered under the 
terms and conditions of her policy. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept Mrs Cs claim. It follows that I dont require 
Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs C, Miss C and Miss Cs complaint 
against Great Lakes Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C, Miss C, Mr 
C and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman