DRN-1946717
 
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about four instalment loans she took with MYJAR Limited. She says 
these loans were unaffordable. 
What happened
MYJAR provided Mrs W with four instalment loans between January 2017 and July 2019. 
The amount borrowed ranged from £500 to £1,200 and Mrs W had to repay them in 12 
monthly instalments. At the time of writing this decision, loan 4 remains outstanding. 
In its final response letter, MYJAR offered to uphold Mrs Ws complaint about all four loans 
and it set out the redress Mrs W was due. But that the redress would be offset against the 
outstanding balance on loan 4.  Mrs W wasnt happy with what MYJAR had offered so 
brought her complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator thought MYJARs offer was fair and in-line with what this service expected 
so they endorsed the offer.
Mrs W disagreed because she thought the redress should be paid directly to her rather than 
off-set against the outstanding balance of loan 4. As Mrs W disagreed with our adjudicator, 
the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mrs W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that what MYJAR has already said it will do is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Ws case. 
Ive noted Mrs Ws comments about paying the redress directly to her. I can appreciate why 
Mrs W feels as if she should get this money directly, but that isnt the position this service 
takes. Ive explained below how we look into these types of cases.
When a business has made an error  either because it accepts one has been made or we
decide something has gone wrong  the starting point, for this service, is that a consumer
should be put back into the position they would have been in had an error not been made.
However, this is not always possible especially in cases that involve lending money.
In cases of irresponsible lending, such as this, this service has to acknowledge that the
consumer has received a sum of money and has had the benefit of it. This is why in such
cases we ask the lender to refund any extra that has been repaid by a consumer, so for
example interest and charges. We also direct any additional interest payment to the
consumer to reflect the loss of use of those funds. This has the effect of providing the
consumer with an interest free loan. By doing this, in our view, a fair outcome is reached.
Mrs W has had the benefit of the money and therefore the outstanding principal amount still 
needs repaying. And MYJAR is entitled to use the redress to reduce that amount. So, I wont 
be directing MYJAR to do anything differently or more than it has already agreed to do. But 
MYJAR should treat Mrs W fairly when dealing with her and consider all reasonable courses 
of action while trying to recover the outstanding balance. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs W, but I want to assure her 
that Ive listened to her concerns, but I think the offer made by MYJAR to resolve the 
complaint is fair and reasonable. 
It is now for Mrs W to decide whether she wants to accept MYJARs offer or not. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman