DRN-2331502
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank PLC loaded a negative marker against him on the 
National Fraud database and didnt release his funds. Hed like the marker removed and 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr G had an account with Barclays. 
In January 2019 Mr G received a payment of £1,000 into his account. In October 2019 
Barclays were notified by a third party bank that the payment Mr G received into his account 
was fraudulent. 
On the 30 October 2019 Barclays restricted Mr Gs access to his account  and on the 
28 November 2019 they closed his accounts with immediate effect. However the bank 
continued to hold on to Mr Gs funds. They asked Mr G for proof of entitlement for his funds 
 on the 29 November 2019 Mr G provided a letter which showed some of the money 
transferred into his personal account was from a limited company he was a director of. 
Barclays didnt accept Mr Gs evidence and on the 3 January 2020 asked Mr G for further 
proof of entitlement. 
The bank also decided to load a negative marker against Mr G for misuse of facility. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Barclays actions. Barclays looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt 
uphold it. They concluded theyd acted fairly in loading the marker and restricting access to 
Mr Gs funds. 
Following further proof of entitlement Barclays advised Mr G that his funds were available to 
collect on the 17 January 2020. Mr G returned to the United Kingdom and collected his funds 
on the 29 February 2020. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Barclays response so complained to our service. He also highlighted 
that he thought Barclays had racially profiled him  and this is why they closed and restricted 
his accounts. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint and thought that Barclays needed to 
do more to put things right. Mr G provided evidence that hed been sent £1,000 through a 
currency exchange service. Our investigator shared this with Barclays and they accepted 
that Mr G had in fact been an innocent money mule. And Barclays also agreed to remove 
the negative marker. 
Our investigator thought that it wasnt reasonable for Barclays to hold on to Mr Gs funds 
until January 2020  and for the inconvenience caused he recommended that Mr G was 
compensated £250.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view, in response he said:
Barclays are aware that he receives credits from Nigeria via a currency exchange 
system, as its not possible to directly transfer funds from Nigeria into his account.
Barclays rushed to judgement when loading the marker against his name  and didnt 
ask him for evidence.
He sold a property considerably below market value because of the restriction of his 
funds.
The bank made him return to the UK to collect his funds, even though they could 
have sent a cheque to his home address.
Our investigator reviewed his conclusions  and increased the level of compensation from 
£250 to £450. He explained that it had been a very stressful time for Mr G because of the 
loading of the fraud marker and the withholding of his funds. 
Barclays accepted our investigators response. But, Mr G didnt accept our investigators 
second view. In response he said:
Barclays have accepted that they acted unfairly in loading the CIFAS marker, surely 
his account should be reopened?
He believes hes been racially profiled and discriminated against and this is why 
Barcalys loaded a CIFAS marker against him and closed his account.
As Mr G didnt agree its been moved to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Negative fraud marker:
Barclays agreed to remove the fraud marker loaded against Mr G in May 2020. So its not 
my role to consider whether or not Barclays need to remove the marker  however I do need 
to consider whether the marker was loaded fairly in the first instance. And I dont think it was 
 I can see that Barclays received notification from a third party bank in October 2019 to say 
Mr G had received a fraudulent credit into his account. I can understand why the bank were 
concerned  and decided to review Mr Gs account, however I havent seen any evidence 
that Barclays contacted Mr G about this specific transaction which Id expect them to do. 
Once our investigator asked Mr G for proof of entitlement, he provided an explanation about 
how the funds were converted into UK currency from Nigeria  and why it was a legitimate 
payment. Im satisfied if Barclays had asked Mr G questions at the time the fraudulent 
transaction was reported in October 2019, the evidence would have been provided and the 
marker not loaded. 
Our investigator asked Barclays whether theyd be willing to reopen Mr Gs account following 
the evidence provided which led to the removal of the fraud marker. Barclays didnt agree to 
do so  arguing that Mr G still received fraudulent funds into his account, and they were 
entitled to close his account. I understand Mr G will be disappointed, but Im afraid I agree 
with Barclays here  based on the terms and conditions of Mr Gs account, Barclays were 
entitled to close it. Therefore I wont be asking them to reopen his account.
Restriction of account and withholding of funds:
Mr Gs account was restricted on the 30 October 2019 following the report of fraudulent 
funds. On the 28 November 2019 his account was closed and the funds were eventually 
provided to Mr G in January 2020. Barclays have explained that Mr Gs funds were withheld due to concern about further chargeback requests  and because they didnt receive suitable 
proof of entitlement for them. I can see from account notes on the 27 November 2019 that 
Barclays decided that Mr Gs proof of entitlement wasnt enough to release the funds  and 
eventually the funds were available to him on the 17 January 2020. 
Mr G advised he was informed he could visit a Barclays branch and collect his funds  
however on the 29 November 2019 he visited a branch and wasnt able to do so. I can see 
that a notice to close letter was issued to Mr G on the 29 November 2019, and in this letter 
Mr G was advised to visit his local branch where he could collect any wages or benefits. 
I cant see any indication that Mr G was advised that hed be able to visit a branch and 
collect his funds  I appreciate that Mr G travelled to the UK for this reason however Im 
unable to conclude that Barclays unfairly directed him to do so. Ive also thought about 
whether it was fair for Barclays to ask Mr G to return to the UK to collect his funds in 
February 2020  I understand that Mr G wont agree, but Im satisfied that at the time 
Barclays had a policy requiring a customer to attend a branch and provide identification to 
collect funds once an account was closed. I appreciate this was inconvenient for Mr G, 
however Im satisfied that the bank acted within their policy here. 
Ive considered the length of time that Barclays held on to Mr Gs funds. I understand that 
Mr G was frustrated by this  and I think Barclays could have reviewed Mr Gs evidence 
more quickly. Mr G provided his first proof of entitlement to Barclays on the 
27 November 2019, but it took Barclays until the 3 January 2020 to advise Mr G this wasnt 
sufficient. If the bank had reviewed Mr Gs proof of entitlement as quickly as Id expect then 
it's likely Mr Gs funds would have been available for him to collect sooner. 
Mr Gs explained that as a result of Barclays actions, in particular the restriction of his funds, 
he had to sell a property for significantly below market value. I understand that Mr G sees a 
direct link between the sale of his property and Barclays actions. However, for me to award 
the level of compensation Mr Gs requesting Id need to see evidence that Mr G had no other 
option but to sell the property, because of Barclays failings, and he made the financial loss 
hes explained. But Ive not seen sufficient evidence to reach this conclusion. 
Mr Gs says he feels Barclays have discriminated against him given the banks actions in 
loading a fraud marker. I can understand why he feels this way but having looked at the 
evidence I dont think Barclays have done so. But, as Ive explained above I do think that 
Barclays acted unfairly in loading the fraud marker and could have progressed things more 
quickly in reviewing Mr Gs proof of entitlement. 
Putting things right
Ive considered the level of compensation I think is appropriate in Mr Gs case. I understand 
that hell be disappointed with my conclusions  however Im satisfied that £450 
compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused to Mr G is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC:
Pay Mr G £450 compensation for the impact caused to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Jeff BurchOmbudsman