Complaint
Ms R complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) when she took out a personal loan. 
I can see Ms R took out a number of Nationwide loans. Not all had PPI attached to them, so 
just to be clear, this decision is about the loan she took out in June 2003. Ms R said she 
didnt know anything about the PPI and wasnt even aware she had bought it.
Background
Ms R applied for a loan of £13,000 and was sold a single premium PPI policy at the same 
time. This type of PPI policy meant that it had to be paid for up front in one single payment. 
It cost £2,536 and this amount was also lent to Ms R by Nationwide. Both the loan and PPI 
part of the loan ran over a period of 84 months (7 years). 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Ms R disagreed and 
the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Ive got no doubt Ms R genuinely feels now that this policy was mis-sold to her. However, 
weve been sent the original documentation she signed and from what we know about these 
types of sale, I think its likely that there would have been a discussion between the parties 
about the loan and whether Ms R wanted to have PPI with it. Based on that discussion, I 
think Ms R would have then been sent or given a loan agreement, to check and sign, which 
included some figures about all the costs. 
Nationwide sent me Ms Rs agreement. It reflects what Ive described above and the PPI 
comes under a heading which says OPTIONAL CREDIT INSURANCE. The agreement 
also says she is being covered for disability, unemployment and life protection, and I note 
Ms R signed and returned the form.
So I think this demonstrates she gave her consent to buying the PPI policy, although I 
accept she may have since forgotten about this.
Nationwide says this wasnt an advised sale, so its responsibility was limited to providing 
enough information to enable Ms R to make her own decision about what she wanted to do. 
DRN-1089020I obviously cant say that Ms R was told everything she should have been. However, the cost 
of the PPI was set out on the form. It included the actual PPI cost, the cost with all the 
interest added on and the sum of these two amounts. It also showed Ms R a breakdown of 
the loan amount and the total sum she would end up paying each month for the loan and 
PPI. 
So I think she had enough information on which to make an informed decision.
Its obviously possible that Nationwide could have done things differently or provided more 
information. But I dont think this would have changed what happened. 
This is because I think Ms R was eligible for the cover and I dont think shed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. She told us 
she had some sickness protection already through her job, implying she didnt need any PPI. 
I can fully understand why shes told us this but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean she 
didnt have a use for the policy. It couldve paid out a monthly benefit in the event of her 
being unable to work through illness, or losing her job completely and this would have been 
in addition to any other means she already had in place.
The loan and the PPI policy also both ran for the same term lengths and if she cashed it in 
early, Ms R would have received, broadly, a proportionate sum back in comparison with how 
long into the loan period she was at that particular time.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R, but I think she had enough information to see and understand 
that she had agreed to the PPI. I dont therefore think it was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint. And I dont direct Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman