DRN-1546455
The complaint 
In 2015, Mr H complained to Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) that it had previously mis-
sold him two packaged bank accounts (PBAs). The first was called an Additions account and 
the second an Additions Plus account. Mr H paid monthly fees for both accounts and 
received several potential benefits in return. 
Barclays upheld Mr Hs complaint and gave him compensation for the fees he had paid up to 
that time. However, it didnt change his account to one without a fee and continued to charge 
him each month. Mr H thinks this was unfair. He has described Barclays actions as sneaky 
and wants it to refund him all the fees he has paid since 2015, plus interest.
What happened
As Barclays has already upheld Mr Hs original complaint and seems to have paid him fair 
compensation up to 2015, we have not considered the way it sold the Additions or Additions 
Plus accounts, only its actions from the time it upheld the complaint. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Hs complaint. The adjudicator didnt 
think that Barclays had acted unfairly and didnt recommend that it should give Mr H any 
money back. Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman 
to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr H s complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr H and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
When Barclays upheld Mr Hs original complaint, it wrote him a letter to explain what it was 
doing. It has sent us a copy of this letter. The letter gave an outline of how Barclays had 
calculated the compensation for Mr H and, about half way through, it contained a section 
called Important information about your packaged bank account. The text in the section 
said: 
Your packaged bank account remains unchanged and is still open. You will continue 
to be charged. for the benefits that this account provides..
It listed the benefits and then said:
If you have any questions about these benefits, want to change to a fee-free account 
or want to discuss. (alternative products) ...please call us.
 The letter then gave a phone number for Mr H to call and also said he could arrange an 
appointment at one of Barclays branches if he wanted to. 
Mr H has told us that he only read the letter to see how much compensation he would 
receive and didnt notice the section about the fees continuing. He thinks it would have been 
more reasonable for Barclays to assume he no longer wanted a PBA, as he had complained 
about it, and to switch him to a fee-free account automatically. 
I accept Mr H may not have read letter in full. However, I dont hold Barclays responsible for 
this. In situations like this, I would expect Barclays to tell its customers fairly and clearly what 
was happening and to give them reasonable choices. Barclays letter seems to have done 
this for Mr H. The meaning of the letter was clear, it was not unduly long, and Barclays 
seems to have attempted to draw Mr Hs attention to the section about the fees continuing 
by highlighting that it was important.
I understand Mr Hs position that after his complaint he thinks Barclays should have known 
he wanted to cancel his PBA and to switch to a fee-free account. However, I would not 
expect a bank to make such a change to a customers account without that customers 
instruction (or consent, if the bank was proposing a change). Mr H doesnt seem to have 
given such an instruction and Barclays wasnt proposing a change, so I think Barclays 
position of leaving Mr Hs PBA in place was reasonable. I dont think it was being sneaky.
I would also like to add that in some situations customers who have been mis-sold a PBA at 
one time ultimately want to keep it. This may happen, for example, if their circumstances or 
the benefits of the account change or if they come to rely on an insurance benefit; so, 
Barclays may well not have known that Mr H wanted to cancel his PBA. 
Around 18 months after Barclays upheld Mr Hs complaint, it withdrew the Additions Plus 
account from him and moved him to a fee-free account with two additional Packs of 
potential benefits, one called a Tech Pack and one called a Travel Pack for which it did 
charge monthly fees. This was part a commercial decision which Barclays was allowed to 
make. But again, I would have expected it to tell Mr H what it was doing and to give him 
reasonable choices. 
As part of Mr Hs complaint, hes told us that he never signed up for these packs. However, 
Barclays has sent us two letters about them which it sent to Mr H. 
The first letter, from September 2016, told Mr H that Barclays proposed to switch him to a 
Barclays Bank Account with no monthly fee, but that it would add a Tech Pack and a 
Travel Pack. The letter explained that Barclays would add these two packs as their 
potential benefits were similar to those of Mr Hs existing account. The letter told Mr H how 
much the two packs would cost and what features they would provide. It also told Mr H he 
could opt out of these packs and that if he did so his account would not have a monthly fee. 
It described how he could opt out either by visiting one of Barclays branches or by calling a 
particular phone number.
Barclays sent the second letter to Mr H in January 2017. This letter told Mr H that Barclays 
had changed his account and that it had started to charge him for the Tech Pack and the 
Travel Pack. It also told him that the packs were optional, and he could remove them from 
his account at any time.
I have also seen copies of later letters Barclays sent to Mr H which told him about 
subsequent changes to the fees it was charging and to the benefits it was providing, as well 
as reminders about rules for the insurance cover that came with the packs. After looking at these letters, it seems to me that Barclays behaved reasonably towards Mr H 
when it switched his account and started to charge him for the packs. I think it met its 
obligations towards him. 
So, in summary, I think Barclays treated Mr H fairly when it kept his PBA open in 2015. It told 
him what was happening and gave him reasonable choices about what to do. I also think it 
behaved fairly when it switched him to the fee-free account with (chargeable) Tech and 
Travel Packs.
My final decision 
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr H s complaint about Barclays
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman