DRN-3384867
The complaint
X complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited didnt send the necessary 
paperwork for a pension contribution to the correct address and he has lost out financially as 
a result.
What happened
X had a Retirement Account with Prudential. He contacted it on 25 November 2020 and 
asked about making a contribution of £15,000. He says he made clear that the contribution 
had to be made before 30 November for tax reasons. X says that although Prudential  didnt 
guarantee that this could be done he was told that it was doable.
In order to expedite matters, he asked Prudential during the call to send the illustration and 
declaration he had to complete, to a temporary address. But Prudential sent the 
documentation to his permanent address and although this was delivered to that address on 
27 November 2020, he wasnt able to pick it up or return it prior to 30 November. He 
complained to Prudential and asked to be compensated for the additional tax liability of 
£2,400 he incurred as a result.
Prudential investigated his complaint. It acknowledged that it had not sent the documentation 
to Xs temporary address as requested. It apologised for this and offered to pay him £50 by 
way of an ex gratia payment. But, it said its adviser had made clear during the call on 25 
November that even if the paperwork had been completed and returned before 30 
November, there was no guarantee that the payment into his account would be processed 
within the deadline hed set. Prudential didnt agree that it should have to pay him any 
compensation for any change in his tax position.
X referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. She said 
shed listened to a call made in August 2020 where Prudential had made clear to X, and 
where hed accepted, that the timescale to make a payment into his Retirement Account was 
about a week. 
X had contacted Prudential on 25 November 2020. The call had ended after its usual 
business hours. So there was only three working days to issue the paperwork, have it 
returned and processed and the payment credited to the account. She said Prudential had 
made it clear several times during the call on 25 November that it could not guarantee this 
process would be concluded before the end of the month  even if it had received the 
completed paperwork on the 30 November.
Our investigator thought that Prudential was not responsible for the payment not being made 
into Xs Retirement Account by 30 November 2020 and she didnt think it should have to 
take any further action.
X didnt agree. He referred to the transcript of the call where he said Prudential had told him 
it was doable within the deadline hed set. He said his accountant had calculated the tax 
liability at £2,400. He thought Prudential should compensate him for this loss.
Our investigator didnt change her view. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully to two telephone calls X had with Prudential. The first call was in 
August 2020. He discussed the process that would apply should he wish to make a 
contribution to his Retirement Account. He was told that he could proceed on a non-advised 
basis and the process would require him to have a telephone conversation with Prudential 
about the risks and the HMRC limits; within 48 hours (2 working days) he would be sent an 
illustration and a declaration to complete; he would have to sign and return the declaration; 
and make a payment to his account by cheque or bank transfer. X suggested this could be 
done within a week and that was confirmed to him. He said he would contact Prudential 
again in September or October.
So, when X phoned Prudential again on 25 November, he already knew that the process 
would take about a week to complete. Right from the start of the call on 25 November 
Prudential made it clear to X that it did not think the process could be completed by 30 
November 2020. The adviser stated several times that even if the process was started 
immediately she could not guarantee that it could be completed on time. 
And, having listened to all of the recording Im satisfied that whilst the adviser was willing to 
assist X to try to get everything completed within the deadline, he was not assured that this 
was possible. In fact she told him it was unlikely, and even if the paperwork and money was 
received by 30 November, it might not be processed the same day. I disagree with X that 
there was a distinct possibility it could happen in time. I think thats also why the adviser 
explained to him that he could write a caveat on the Declaration to say if the investment 
couldnt be completed by 30 November, the funds should be returned to him. She also told X 
she was confident that if everything wasnt completed by 30 November he could get his 
funds back.
X says that if Prudential had sent the documentation to the temporary address as it had 
agreed to do, theres no reason why he couldnt have completed everything on time. But, 
having considered all of the information provided, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that more likely than not everything could have been completed on time. Ill 
explain why.
Even if X had returned the paperwork by 30 November and made the payment on that day, I 
think its unlikely Prudential wouldve processed everything immediately. Its processing times 
are on its website  to which X was referred during the call on 25 November. These state 
that for single contributions it takes three business days from the date the contribution and 
all the documentation is received, to process everything.
And, Im not persuaded, it would be fair and reasonable to say that Prudential wouldve 
processed the completed documentation immediately even if it was received on 30 
November. As our investigator said, industry best practice allows at least an extra day to 
deal with incoming post.
Prudential paid X an ex gratia payment of £50 for issuing the illustration to his permanent 
address rather than the temporary address hed provided. I consider this sufficient as an 
apology for this administrative error. I accept that not meeting the deadline has caused X 
financial loss and inconvenience, however I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold 
Prudential responsible for this. Even if it had not made an error by using the wrong address, its more likely than not in my view that X would have missed the deadline.  I dont require it 
to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman