DRN-3961652
The complaint
Ms A has complained about delays and the settlement she received from Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited trading as Halifax(Lloyds) when she made a claim under her 
home and buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms A made an escape of water claim to Lloyds in July 2022. She complained to Lloyds 
about the delays it caused in progressing her claim. Ms A didnt accept the offer Lloyds 
made for the costs to replace damaged wall tiles to closely match the undamaged wall tiles 
in her kitchen. She said the replacement tiles offered were not a close match. Shed asked 
the contractor to work privately for her to tile the undamaged wall at the same time as tiling 
the damaged wall, but they didnt agree. 
Ms A said the contactors drilled through the wall causing damage to her lounge. She 
confirmed the contractor said they would repair this. 
In November 2022 Lloyds replied to Ms As complaint. It upheld it in part. It agreed it had 
caused some delays and paid Ms A £175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
As the original wall tiles were no longer available to buy, Lloyds provided Ms A with a choice 
of shopping sites where she could purchase closely matching tiles for less per square metre 
than the amount Lloyds was settling her claim for. So it said it had acted fairly here. It said 
the tiles Ms A wanted were a different shape and colour to her existing tiles on both the 
damaged and undamaged wall and it was under no obligation to cover this.
Lloyds said the contractor is only obliged to carry out works agreed with Lloyds - so any 
additional work is a matter between Ms A and the contractor. 
Ms A remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought that 
although Lloyds policy said it wouldnt provide matching sets cover, it wasnt fair that Ms A 
had a loss of match which would have been visible due to the size of the area. So she 
recommended Lloyds contribute 50% toward the costs to replace the undamaged tiles to 
match in line with our approach. 
Ms A accepted the Investigators view. Lloyds didnt agree. It provided photos of the existing 
wall tiles for Ms As kitchen. This shows the existing tiles were a standard square tile in a 
white/off white colour. It says there are several sites where Ms A can buy a similar tile - it 
doesnt have to provide an exact replacement - and the tiles Ms A intends to replace her 
kitchen with on the damaged wall are a different colour and a rectangular shape. This means 
the tiles Ms A wants to replace the damaged wall with will not match the undamaged wall 
and Lloyds is not obliged to meet the costs to cover this. Both of the replacement tile options 
Lloyds found online were for less than £15 per square metre. It has offered Ms A £20 per 
square metre. The tiles Ms A wants are over £30 per square metre and not a close match.
Lloyds has provided the relevant policy wording to support its actions. At renewal in 2018 it 
explained to its customers that it was removing matching sets cover from the policy unless 
a customer had upgraded cover, which Ms A didnt choose. It says Ms A called to discuss 
her renewal in 2018 and it asked if she wanted to review the level of cover she had, which 
Ms A replied no. 
It therefore says it has treated Ms A fairly and in line with other customers - who have 
chosen to pay an additional premium in order to have matching sets cover. 
So Lloyds wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We often see situations where an insurer cant replace an item with an exact match because 
its no longer made. This means it would need to be replaced with the nearest equivalent. 
Consumers often feel that their insurance policy should cover the cost of replacing the 
whole set when this happens, so they may not be happy with being offered a replacement 
that isnt an exact match. Before the damage, they had a fully matching set  and now they 
dont. That might not seem fair to the consumer. 
Ms As policy with Lloyds - like most insurance policies - specifically covers damaged items 
only. I appreciate that Lloyds provides the option for consumers to pay more to have 
matching sets cover. So it might also seem unfair to expect the insurer to pay for items that 
havent been damaged. But we think a compromise is the fair and pragmatic way forward.
Where the insurer will replace the damaged item only but it no longer matches the rest of the 
set, the consumer suffers a loss of match. We usually take the view that the consumer 
should be paid compensation to reflect that loss. We generally say that fair compensation is 
50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged parts of the set.
I understand that Ms A didnt choose to pay for upgraded cover for Lloyds to provide a 
matching set in the event of a claim. So I dont think Lloyds should meet the full costs to 
replace undamaged wall tiles - as well as damaged wall tiles. 
Ive considered the ombudsman decision Lloyds has provided for another case. We look at 
each case on its own merits. In line with our approach - and given the size of the area 
needing replacement - I think a fair outcome is for Lloyds to meet 50% of the equivalent 
costs for replacement wall tiles to match the damaged wall tiles as otherwise Ms A would be 
left with a noticeable difference in match which doesnt put Ms A back in the position she 
would have been in before the loss. 
I think the amount Lloyds has offered of £20 per square metre is fair. I dont think it is 
responsible for paying extra for the tiles Ms A wants as this is over and above its liability 
under the claim. I think its fair and reasonable for Ms A to pay the difference in the cost for 
the updated tiles she wants to have to replace the entire kitchen walls. 
Lloyds paid Ms A £175 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
delays in appointing a contractor to carry out strip out works and providing a drying 
certificate. It also failed to acknowledge or reply to an email from Ms A in October 2022. I 
think this amount is fair and in line with what we would award in similar circumstances. 
I understand why Ms A was frustrated at not being able to agree with the contractor to carry 
out private works while carrying out claim related works in her kitchen. But as the contractor 
works for Lloyds, I cant comment on their decision here. It isnt something I can criticise 
Lloyds for. 
Lloyds has confirmed that once the kitchen works are completed, the contractor will put right 
the damage to the adjoining room from drilling into the kitchen wall. I think this is reasonable. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited trading as Halifax-to do the following:
Pay Ms A 50% of the equivalent costs to replace undamaged wall tiles in the kitchen 
to closely match the damaged wall tiles - in addition to the cash settlement it has 
offered for the damaged wall tiles. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman