DRN-4437408
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr W, acting as the trustees of a trust Ill refer to as T, complained that Cofunds 
Limited was unreasonably refusing to accept a copy of the trust deed certified by a solicitor, 
and so preventing any withdrawals from the trust account. 
Mr W has mainly dealt with the matter on behalf of the trustees, so Ill mostly just refer to him 
in my decision to keep things simpler. 
What happened
When Cofunds received a request to set up the account in 2006, it was originally created as 
a joint account in the names of the two people who had applied to invest the funds.  
In 2019, one of the original account holders died and it then became apparent to those 
involved in bringing this complaint that the account wasnt set up as a trust as they had 
always understood to be the case. They thought Cofunds had made a mistake and set up 
the account incorrectly as a joint account.
In February 2021, Cofunds explained that in order for the account to be made a trust, it 
would need to have the following completed paperwork:
 General Investment Account to Trust application 
 Trust and Identity Verification Form
 Deed of Appointment. 
Cofunds said the first two documents could be either originals or certified copies, and it 
attached copies of these for completion. Cofunds said the Deed of Appointment would be 
generated by a solicitor.
Subsequently, Cofunds changed the account to a trust account in the name of T. But it 
mistakenly overlooked receiving a certified Deed of Appointment and Retirement of trustees 
relating to the T trust, along with identity and verification evidence for the present trustees in 
June 2020. This resulted in Cofunds closing its file instead of actioning the necessary 
changes.
When it received a complaint about this in May 2021, Cofunds apologised and 
acknowledged that it had failed to provide the right level of service when updating the 
account and offered £200 compensation by way of apology.
This offer wasnt taken up and there has been ongoing correspondence between Cofunds 
and Mr W about exactly what paperwork Cofunds still needs to see in order to be able to 
enable withdrawals to be made from Ts account.
Cofunds identified a further mistake on its part when reviewing all the paperwork and it 
realised that it hadnt ever seen the original trust deed dated 2005 or received a copy for its 
records that satisfied its own certification requirements. 
On 14 April 2022, Cofunds confirmed it had made the required changes to record the 
present two trustees and changed the name of the holding to the name of the trust. But it 
said it still required an instruction by post signed by both of the current trustees to change 
the address. And it said the photocopy of the 2005 trust deed wasnt acceptable and that it 
required the original or a certified copy of this document. 
When this prompted a further complaint, Cofunds said the issue with the copy it received 
was that all pages were not certified. Cofunds said it couldnt liaise directly with the solicitors 
as it didnt hold authority to do that, and that this issue would need to be sorted out before a 
withdrawal could be completed. Cofunds did however acknowledge that this additional error, 
along with its delayed response to the complaint, had caused further inconvenience and it 
offered to pay a further £200, making a total payment of £400 compensation.
Mr W brought the complaint to this service when the issue with the paperwork couldnt be 
resolved, saying that the solicitor who had certified the copy 2005 trust deed had said it was 
ok and objecting to the fact that Cofunds was refusing to accept it.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt feel this was a complaint we could 
uphold. She mainly said that Cofunds was entitled to set its own criteria and say how it 
wanted documents to be certified so we couldnt tell it to change its requirements in this 
regard. And she felt that the £400 compensation Cofunds had offered to pay was reasonable 
and that we wouldnt ask it to pay anything more.
Mr W disagreed, saying in brief summary:
 the issues have not been resolved 
 its not about the money, the questions haven't been answered 
 Cofunds lost the information that was sent in 2020 after they had accepted 
everything, including the certified copy
 why was the investment in a joint account instead of a trust account 
 why was all the information lost and its taking this long to sort out 
 having to pay another solicitor to get access to the funds is unacceptable 
 Cofunds can pay for a solicitor to double check the information if they want to.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I can understand Mr Ws frustration at the delay theres been here especially since Cofunds 
agrees that overall, it hasnt dealt with matters as well as it shouldve done. So Ive thought 
carefully about how far Cofunds was responsible for any unreasonable delay and about the 
quality of the service it provided in connection with this matter. 
My role is to consider all the evidence presented by both parties and reach a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. We provide an informal complaints 
handling service and this is reflected in our approach. Ive expressed some of the concerns 
mentioned in my own words and my focus is on what I think are the key issues here. Our 
rules allow me to do this and it simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. This means I wont necessarily mention everything that Mr W has 
brought to my attention, especially where I have nothing to add to what the investigator has 
said already. But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint and I will deal with the main points Mr W has raised in response to the 
investigators view.I am satisfied that Cofunds didnt make any mistake with the original set up of the account. 
I've seen a copy of the completed Investment Funds Transfer Form. Its clear that originally 
the account was correctly set up as a joint account because thats what the application was 
for. So I dont find that Cofunds did anything wrong when it didnt set up the trust account in 
the first place. 
Cofunds amended the account in April 2022 to reflect the fact the holding was in the name of 
T and it updated the trustee details to show the present trustees. But as far as I can see, it 
didnt at that stage ask to see the original trust deed  it relied on the information in the 
Deed of Appointment and Retirement of trustees form. I dont think its unreasonable for 
Cofunds to require the trustees to provide this. To be clear, as there seems to be some 
misunderstanding on this point, Cofunds is willing to accept a certified copy of the original 
2005 trust deed  it isnt insisting on seeing the original. So I dont find that Cofunds is being 
unfair or unreasonable about this. 
The particular issue that seems to be causing a problem now is that the way the solicitor has 
certified the copy thats been provided to Cofunds doesnt match Cofunds criteria. 
Cofunds clearly stated what its requirements were in April 2022 as follows:  
This is the link to our web page which details our full certification requirements and 
approved certifier list www.aegon.co.uk/certify.  Please note if a document is being certified it 
must be certified, fully on every page.  Also if it is certified by a solicitor we do require the 
actual name of the solicitor on the certification stamp and not just the Company name.
How a financial business chooses to operate and its business processes are outside our 
remit - these are matters that come under the oversight of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). So its not up to me to say that Cofunds shouldnt require 
certification to be done this way. And I dont think that needing to have each page certified in 
the way Cofunds has said it needs to see is a particularly unusual or onerous requirement  
and Cofunds communicated this information clearly some time ago. So I dont find that 
Cofunds is imposing requirements on T that are unfair or unreasonable. 
Cofunds cant reasonably be expected to process any withdrawals from the account without 
first being satisfied that it has the proper authority to do so  so I think its fair and 
reasonable for Cofunds to require sight of either the original trust deed or a copy certified in 
line with its requirements. And its up to the trustees to arrange for the certification of the 
2005 trust deed in line with Cofunds requirement or alternatively, produce the original 
document.
The fact that Cofunds accepted differently certified documents previously makes no 
difference to my decision. If the certification didnt match their requirements, that couldve 
been an oversight on the part of Cofunds. But this wasnt detrimental to T as it saved the 
trustees the trouble of getting those documents re-certified, so this doesnt affect the 
outcome of this complaint.  
Cofunds however upheld aspects of this complaint and whilst I dont need to make any 
findings about whats already been agreed, this seems fair to me. Looked at overall, I think 
Cofunds was right to acknowledge that there have been some serious service failings on 
their part. 
I think its worth mentioning that where an error has occurred, our aim is to put the 
complainant in the position theyd be in now had the error not occurred. Here, it wasnt 
wrong for Cofunds to request all the documents it has asked to see, in whichever format they choose to request them. The error Cofunds made is not having requested all the necessary 
documents sooner. So ultimately, the trustees would always have ended up in this position.
 
I appreciate that Mr W has said money isnt the issue here, but Cofunds has offered to pay a 
total of £400 by way of compensation for the shortcomings it identified on its part. This 
seems fair to me as it recognises the fact that its taken a lot longer for the complainants to 
have clarity over Cofunds requirements than it otherwise ought to have.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr W doesnt agree with everything I've said but says hell accept the £400 so things can 
move forward.
Cofunds said that the reason the £400 hadnt been paid was because the offer hadnt been 
acepted and it didnt have the necessary bank details.
The deadline for responses has now passed so I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to 
my provisional decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. Putting things right
Cofunds should pay Mr W, in his capacity as one of the trustees of T, the £400 
compensation it has already offered by way of redress. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Cofunds Limited to take the steps set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman