DRN-3506538
The complaint
Ms R complains Fairmead Insurance Limited unfairly declined her Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to Fairmead also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
A number of reports have been provided from Ms R, Fairmead and the third party 
(TP) who was carrying out works nearby. Several of the reports concluded the 
damage was caused gradually  and that work carried out by TP highlighted existing 
issues in the cellar.
The policy says gradually operating causes are excluded from cover. Fairmead have 
applied this in declining Ms Rs claim
Ms Rs surveyor says the TPs works being undertaken in the cellars have directly 
contributed to its collapse.
Having considered all of the information available Im more persuaded by what 
Ms Rs surveyor has said.
From looking at all the reports. Ms Rs surveyor appears to have more detail about 
the work being carried out. The TP was present at one of two of the surveyors visits, 
where the full extent of work appears to have been disclosed in detail. This includes 
work to convert one of the cellars into a utility room. However, a number of 
Fairmeads reports only reference works to the home.  
Works being carried out to the cellar are further supported by Ms Rs Surveyors 
findings that a crack is located exactly where gas coring took place  part of the 
works to the cellars disclosed by the TP in planning to convert it.
Further to this Ms Rs Surveyor has provided a detailed explanation of how the works 
could have led to the structure being compromised.
Fairmead have referenced roots being found in its inspection, but I cant see any 
presence of major root ingress reported and several reports note the walls were 
generally in a good condition. I also note the walls have stood for some time with no 
issue  and the cellars were not in general use prior to work beginning in the lead up 
to the incident.
Due to the reasons above, Im not persuaded Fairmead have fairly declined the claim and so 
I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Rs complaint.
To put things right, I direct Fairmead Insurance Limited to re-consider the claim under the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman