DRN-2985799
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Watford Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline his 
claim under his motor insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr S took out a policy with Watford through and an insurance broker in April 2019. He then 
changed the car insured under the policy in May 2019. This car was involved an accident in 
August 2019. Watford investigated the claim and declared the car a write-off. However, they 
said the car had been modified. And, because Mr S hadnt told them about the modification, 
they declined his claim. Mr S complained to Watford, explaining that all hed done was add a 
sticker to the front grill of the car, which he didnt consider was a modification. Watford 
rejected Mr Ss complaint, as they were satisfied hed breached the following policy condition 
by not telling them about the sticker. 
You must tell Us about the following beforehand: 
If You intend to change Your Car or its registration number. 
If You intend to change what You use Your vehicle for. 
If You want to include other drivers or intend to change the main driver. 
If You intend to modify Your Car from the manufacturer's standard specification. 
Modifications include optional extras and any changes to bodywork; these include but are 
not limited to:
 
Changes to the bodywork, such as spoilers or body kits. 
Changes to suspension or brakes. 
Cosmetic changes such as alloy wheels. 
Changes affecting performance and/or handling, such as changes to the engine 
management system or exhaust system. 
Changes to the audio/entertainment system. 
Please be aware that this is not a full list of all possible changes. All changes made from the 
manufacturers standard specification must be disclosed. This Policy does not cover any 
non-standard parts (modifications). Manufacturers optional extras are only covered if they 
have been declared and We have agreed to arrange cover for them.
 
If You make a claim for loss or damage to Your Car, We will only pay the cost of replacing 
parts needed for Your Car to meet the manufacturers standard specification. Failure to 
notify Us of a modification may result in Your Policy being cancelled or treated as if it never 
existed, or in Your claim being rejected or not fully paid.
Mr S asked us to consider his complaint about Watford. When Watford provided their file on 
the complaint, they said that had Mr S told them about the sticker they wouldnt have 
continued with the policy. They also mentioned some other concerns they had about the 
details Mr S had provided about his car and the circumstances giving rise to his claim. 
One of our investigators assessed Mr Ss complaint. He suggested Watford should 
reconsider Mr Ss claim. This was because he didnt think Watford were entitled to rely on 
the abovementioned policy condition, as Mr S couldnt reasonably have been expected to 
realise that he needed to tell Watford about adding the sticker to his car. 
Watford didnt accept the investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. They maintained that the policy condition they were relying on made it clear Mr S 
needed to tell them about modifications and that it should have been clear to him the sticker 
was a modification. 
I reviewed the complaint and emailed Watford. I explained why I didnt think Mr S needed to 
tell Watford about adding the sticker to his car. This was on the basis that it did not represent 
a fundamental change to the risk they were covering. And therefore wasnt something it was 
reasonable to expect a consumer to declare during the term of an annual contract. Watford 
have now come back and said they dont agree with me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not long after taking out the policy Mr S told Watford about his intended change in car. 
Watford agreed to cover Mr Ss new car and changed the car insured under his policy. And I 
think Mr S did need to tell them about this, as it was a fundamental change to the risk 
Watford was covering. However, despite the abovementioned policy condition, I dont think 
Mr S was obliged to tell Watford before or after he added the sticker to his car. This is 
because, while I think it could be classed as a cosmetic change, it was not a fundamental 
change to the risk Watford were insuring. It was a minor change and  in my opinion  it is 
not fair for an insurer to expect a consumer to declare such a minor change, when the 
insurer has agreed to cover a car under an annual insurance contract. 
I understand Watfords view that the sticker may have increased the attractiveness of Mr Ss 
car to thieves, although I think this unlikely. And the fact they wouldnt have been willing to 
continue insuring Mr Ss car if he had told them about the sticker. However, the sticker was 
not  in my opinion - a fundamental change in the risk they were covering. Therefore I dont 
think Mr S could reasonably be expected to tell Watford about it. This means I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for me to allow Watford to rely on the abovementioned policy 
condition to refuse Mr Ss claim. 
Putting things right
In view of what Ive said, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for me 
to require Watford to reconsider Mr Ss claim without relying on the abovementioned policy 
condition.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided Watford Insurance Company Limited must 
reconsider Mr Ss claim without relying on the abovementioned policy condition.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Robert ShortOmbudsman