DRN-3360735
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. (Mapfre) wouldnt confirm whether hed be covered for travel to a particular country 
under a travel insurance policy.
All reference to Mapfre includes its agents.
What happened
Towards the end of June 2021, Mr R obtained a quote from Mapfre for an annual, silver, 
travel insurance policy. 
Around the time of obtaining the quote, Mr R asked whether he would be covered under the 
policy if he travelled to a country Ill refer to as U. At the time, the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) was advising against all but essential international travel to 
certain countries including to U due to the global impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mapfres representative was unable to confirm. It was suggested to Mr R that he visit the 
FCO website to check if the reason for travel was considered to be essential and that 
MAPFRE considers any claims on a case by case basis. Mr R was unhappy with that; he 
says the representative shouldve been able to tell him if the policy would respond to a claim 
in the specific circumstances he provided.
Our investigator didnt think Mapfre had acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mr R disagrees so 
his complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I can, of course, understand why Mr R wanted assurance 
whether the policy would respond to the circumstances of his travel.
However, I dont think Mapfre was under any obligation  legally, regulatory, or otherwise  
to give any assurances whether the purposes of his trip would amount to essential travel. 
That term is used by the FCO when advising whether UK residents ought to travel abroad or 
not; its not something thats defined by the policy. 
I accept what Mapfre says: due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the FCO advice was regularly 
changing around that time. So, it wasnt possible for it to give a definitive answer to any 
question regarding international travel  or essential travel. I dont think it acted 
unreasonably by referring Mr R to the FCO website before travelling (and whilst abroad) to 
check the latest travel advice. 
I can understand Mr Rs disappointment, but I dont think Mapfre acted unfairly in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Further, Mr R didnt end up proceeding with the policy and he hasnt lost out financially. So, 
even if Mapfre shouldve provided more information to Mr R about whether a claim would be 
covered under the policy if he travelled to U in the circumstances mentioned  which I dont 
think it reasonably ought to have done - I dont think he has lost out as a result.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman