DRN-2789879
The complaint
Mr B complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans acted irresponsibly 
by granting him a loan that was unaffordable.
Mr B is represented by his partner in this complaint. For ease, Ill refer to anything shes said 
as being said by Mr B.
What happened
In late 2018, Mr B took out a loan with Likely Loans. He later complained that Likely Loans 
had lent him the money irresponsibly because the loan was unaffordable for him. Likely 
Loans said it felt it had carried out proportionate checks and these didnt suggest the loan 
was not affordable at the point of Mr Bs application.
 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 April 2021 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Likely Loans to carry out reasonable 
and proportionate checks to ensure Mr B could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner.
  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Likely Loans to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him.
 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Mr B applied for the loan in September 2018. The amount borrowed was £1,800 with an 
APR of 79.9%. It was to be repaid over a term of 36 months in instalments of £109.02 a 
month. This meant the total amount to be repaid was £3,924.72.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Bs loan application after considering the income hed 
provided as well as information from his credit report.
  
In the loan application, Mr B told Likely Loans he was employed, he was a tenant and 
earned £25,200 a year. He said the purpose of the loan was home improvements / repairs. 
Likely Loans says it reviewed Mr Bs credit report as part of its credit assessment. The 
information its provided from the point of application only appears to be a brief summary. 
This summary (from September 2018) shows Mr B had a total debt of £7,200 and seven 
active credit accounts. 
Likely Loans has also provided a more detailed credit history from May 2020 (which was 
some time after the loan application). Likely Loans says its used this to cross-reference the 
extracted data to confirm it had obtained the correct information. It believes the information it 
extracted at the point of application is more accurate. But its used the greater figure (from 
the credit file) to work out Mr Bs disposable income at the time of application. Likely Loans 
has calculated this to be £1,183.82 after deducting Mr Bs existing monthly credit 
commitments and the repayment for the loan he was applying for. Its commented that the 
disposable income that remained was significant.
 
Likely Loans has concluded the loan was affordable based on the income he provided and 
its assessment of Mr Bs credit commitments. But I dont think Likely Loans affordability 
checks were proportionate. I say this because it doesnt appear to have assessed Mr Bs 
other essential expenditure. Although the monthly repayments were fairly low, Mr B was 
committing to repaying them over a period of three years. So, I think Likely Loans should 
have considered Mr Bs living costs to check the loan would be sustainably affordable for 
him. 
With this in mind, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
Ive reviewed Mr Bs bank statements for the three months prior to the loan being agreed. I 
appreciate different checks show different things and proportionate checks might not have 
extended to Likely Loans looking at Mr Bs bank statements. But, in the absence of anything 
else, Ive reviewed these to get an idea of what Likely Loans would likely have discovered if 
it had perhaps asked Mr B some questions about his expenditure.
Mr B has told us that he received accommodation through his employment. His rent and 
council tax were deducted from his salary. So, Ive used the income showing on his bank 
statements (averaging £1,643 a month) and havent deducted anything for rent or council 
tax. 
Mr Bs bank statements show he was making regular child maintenance payments of £263 a 
month. He was also committed to pay £298 a month for a car lease. After taking into account 
Mr Bs other regular payments (TV license, insurance, mobile phone etc), his existing credit 
commitments (from his credit file) and repayments for the loan with Likely Loans, his 
disposable income works out to be a little over £400 a month. But this doesnt take other 
living expenses (such as food, petrol, clothes and some other bills) into account. Given the 
duration of the loan agreement, I think its likely Mr B would also have had some unexpected 
outgoings over its term. 
Having considered the above, I think that if Likely Loans had done proportionate checks it 
ought reasonably to have realised that Mr B would most likely have had difficulty making his 
loan repayments without having to borrow elsewhere. It follows that Likely Loans should 
reasonably have realised that Mr B was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay his loan and 
concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to him.
I set out what I intended to direct Likely Loans to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr B said he was happy to accept my provisional decision.Likely Loans also said it accepted my provisional decision. It said it would arrange for the 
settlement to be paid if Mr B accepts this and would remove any adverse data from Mr Bs 
credit file.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted what I said in my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions Ive reached.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed 
because hes had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So Likely Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr B 
made as payment towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Bs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Likely Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% per annum simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they would have arisen to the date of settlement.*
If reworking Mr Bs loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Likely Loans should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr B for the revised balance.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Likely Loans 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Oakbrook Finance 
Limited, trading as Likely Loans to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman