DRN-3596583
The complaint
Mr A has complained that he is unhappy with the quality of a new car he bought in 
December 2018, using a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited (BMWFS).
What happened
Mr A acquired a new car in December 2018. The cost was just over £47,000. Of this, Mr A 
borrowed £40,581.78 over 48 months. The monthly cost was £551.98, with a final amount of 
£20,550.18 payable if Mr A wanted to keep the vehicle at that point.
After a series of issues with the car (set out below), Mr A said he sold it for £29,000 in 
September 2020, but the amount required to settle the agreement was £32,227.71, so Mr A 
had to pay the difference to BMWFS.
Shortly after buying the car - in January 2019 - the parcel shelf stopped operating and was 
replaced by the supplying dealer. However, no further issues arose with the parcel shelf after 
the repair.
Some months later, in late November 2019, a serious issue occurred. Mr A told us that when 
driving the car near his home at night-time, and as he was turning on to a main road and 
picking up speed, he heard a loud clunk from underneath the vehicle. The car juddered 
severely and came to an abrupt halt, having lost all power without warning. I can appreciate 
how worrying this was, especially as his family were with him in the car. 
Mr A contacted the supplying dealer and was advised to take the car in for examination. 
However, on the way to the dealership, the car came to an abrupt halt again, so the dealer 
arranged to collect the car from where it had broken down.
Following this breakdown, extensive repairs were carried out. These included a new 
differential, new rear prop shaft, new transfer box seal, new rear drive shaft and a new gear 
box sump. Mr A collected the car in December 2019 when the repairs were complete. 
Mr A said that he then contacted the supplying dealer again about six weeks later, in 
January 2020, to say that the car didnt feel right, in that he was experiencing juddering at 
certain speeds and load conditions that could be felt through the seat, gear stick and 
steering wheel. Mr A further said that a BMW technician accompanied him on a test drive, 
and concluded that another part shouldve been fitted but, due to the expense, he needed to 
get his managers approval.
The supplying dealer then road-tested the car separately, but was unable to replicate the 
issue. Mr A said he was told that the dealer would arrange to compare and test drive with 
another car of the same model and specification, but he told us that didnt happen.
In February 2020 a new issue arose - the multimedia centre crashed on several occasions, 
causing a loss of sat nav data and contacts. Mr A took the car back to the dealer to repair 
the multimedia centre, but the issue with the juddering still couldnt be replicated.
In June 2020, Mr A complained to BMWFS, saying that he had lost all confidence in the car 
and felt that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. He further said that 
he wanted to return the car to BMWFS.
BMWFS issued its final response on 19 August 2020, saying that it didnt feel obligated to 
assist, as there had been no fault found and no repairs carried out since March 2020. It also 
said that Mr A had accepted the repairs and they hadnt failed as no fault had since been 
identified.
Mr A was unhappy with this response and therefore brought his complaint to this service. As 
I noted above, Mr A had sold the car, but for less than the amount owing under the hire 
purchase agreement. Mr A thought this loss should be reimbursed, together with a refund of 
his deposit and the monthly payments made to BMWFS.
Our investigator looked at Mr As complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr A 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. On 4 July 2022 I 
issued my provisional decision, in which I explained why I was minded to uphold Mr As 
complaint. I requested any further comments by 1 August 2022, but as both parties have 
responded, I can now issue my final decision. Mr A told us he had nothing further to add. 
BMWFS said it accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I set out my findings and the reasons why I proposed to uphold 
Mr As complaint as follows:
Because BMWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case of course, the car was new, and I think any reasonable person would expect it to 
be free of any faults or defects.
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
I set out above the information that Mr A provided about the sequence of events. None of the 
faults described occurred within the first 30 days after Mr A took delivery of the car, so the 
short term right to reject under the CRA doesnt apply here. 
Mr As information was very detailed, with a lengthy description of the sequence of events. 
BMW provided job cards, and these described the repair of the parcel shelf, the later, more 
substantial repairs in December 2019, and the repair to the multimedia system.Looking at what happened in December 2019, the car was only a year old when extensive 
repairs were needed. I think the parts involved ought reasonably to have had a longer life 
span. And Ive not seen anything to make me think that Mr A caused or contributed to the 
faults occurring. So my conclusion is that that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
Under the CRA Mr A would have been able to reject the car if, after that repair, the car still 
hadnt conformed to contract. Ive thought carefully about what Mr A said about this - that is, 
that he was experiencing juddering at certain speeds and load conditions.
I accept that the job sheets from February 2020 (when the multimedia system was repaired) 
show that the dealer was unable to replicate the juddering, and as the car has been sold 
there is no opportunity to commission an expert report. However, the job sheets didnt 
include any reference to the test drive in January 2020 that Mr A told us about, where he 
said the BMW technician referred to an additional part that shouldve been fitted. Nor did 
they refer to the comparison test drive that Mr A said was promised, but that didnt take 
place.
We asked BMWFS about those two points. In summary, it said it thought the dealer wouldve 
wanted to sell any part irrespective of expense, and that the option would have been made 
to Mr A in writing and noted in a job card or e-mailed to him to show breakdown of costs. 
Currently it could not find either of those.
Ive considered what BMWFS said about that. But as the car was only just over a year old, it 
would still have been under warranty, so I dont think it wouldve been necessary to give Mr 
A a breakdown of costs or present the option in writing. And as Mr A said the comparison 
test drive didnt take place, I cant see that it wouldve been recorded in a job sheet. 
Mr A is understandably unhappy with what has happened, and said that his confidence in 
the car was damaged after the events of November 2019. This was exacerbated by the 
further repairs required to the multimedia system a few months later. As Ive said, Mr A 
provided a detailed account of events, and I find his account plausible and persuasive.
Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that the car was durable, or that it 
conformed to contract after the repairs, so I think Mr A was entitled to reject it. (However as I 
noted above, Mr A decided to sell the car, and did so in September 2020. The proceeds 
were less than the amount owed to BMWFS, so he paid the difference.)
I said in my provisional decision that, for the reasons Id explained, I was minded to uphold 
Mr As complaint. As no further information has been provided, and BMWFS has accepted 
my provisional decision, I have no reason to change my findings or conclusions and 
therefore I am upholding Mr As complaint.
As Mr A had the use of the car (or a courtesy car) I do not consider I can fairly direct 
BMWFS to refund the monthly payments Mr A made under the contract. But I consider it fair 
to require the refund of Mr As deposit, and the additional amount he had to pay to settle the 
contract in September 2020.
Putting things right
BMWFS should:
Confirm with Mr A the amount he paid by way of deposit and refund it, adding 8% 
simple interest* per year from the date he paid it to the date the compensation is 
paid;Confirm with Mr A the amount he received on the sale of the car, and refund the 
difference between it, and the amount required to settle the agreement, adding 8% 
simple interest* per year from the date of settlement to the date the compensation is 
paid;
Pay £250 for the inconvenience Mr A experienced due to the faults with the car;
Remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file (if any has been added).
*if BMWFS considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided to uphold Mr As complaint. BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited should compensate Mr A as Ive described.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2022.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman