DRN-2758424
The complaint
 Miss H and Mr H complain that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very 
(Very) reduced the credit limit without notice and stopped any further purchases from Mr Hs 
account , resulting in adverse credit information being reported against him.  
What happened
Miss H and Mr H says without any formal notice being given Very stopped any future 
purchases from Mr Hs account and reduced the available credit limit on the account which 
resulted in adverse information being recorded on Mr Hs credit file. Miss H and Mr H says 
Very never gave Mr H time to have brought the balance down in line with the reduced credit 
limit to avoid adverse information being reported. Miss H and Mr H believe Verys actions are 
unfair and want the adverse information removed from Mr Hs credit file.
Very says under the terms and conditions of the account they are able to reduce the limit at 
any time and have made a commercial decision to stop future purchases from Mr Hs 
account. Very also say they have correctly reported the account activity to the appropriate 
credit reference agencies. 
Miss H and Mr H werent happy with Verys response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Very had accurately reported the activity on Mr Hs account to the credit reference 
agencies. The investigator felt Very had acted within the term and conditions of the account 
when reducing the credit limit and had informed Mr H of this by both telephone and email. 
The investigator felt Very were entitled to make a commercial decision to discontinue any 
further purchases form Mr Hs account and set this to repayment only. 
Miss H and Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a  different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it must have been disappointing and upsetting for Miss H and Mr H to be 
notified they were no longer able to continue operating the account with Very as they had 
previously, meaning the account was set for repayment only. When looking at this complaint 
I will consider if Very acted fairly when they reduced the available credit limit and set the 
account to repayment only and the effect that had on Mr Hs credit file. I will not be looking at 
any disputed transactions or returned items as this is being considered under a separate 
complaint to this service. 
Mr H opened an account in 2008 with Very and from 2018 onwards, from the information 
provided to this service, Miss H was also making use of the account with Mr Hs knowledge. 
Miss H and Mr H says that in December 2019 Very set their account so no further purchases 
could be made and only allowed them to make repayments, without providing any notice of 
this. Miss H and Mr H are also concerned that Very set the limit on the account to a level 
lower than the outstanding balance and  reported this to the credit reference agencies.
Very says they took the difficult decision to change the account to repayment only given the 
activity on the account and specifically the large number of returns made and disputes in the 
previous 18 months. Very says they reported accurately the position on the account to the 
credit agencies and are obliged to do so. 
Let me begin by saying that it is not my role to tell Very or any credit provider whom they 
must conduct business with, and if they must continue to provide such facilities if they 
believe it is uneconomical for them to do so. What is important is whether they acted fairly 
when doing so. I have seen evidence from Very to show an email was sent to Mr H asking 
him to contact them about the account in December 2019 having tried to contact him by 
phone. This followed two other emails about the account operation needing to be discussed 
the previous month. From what I have seen, Very took the decision to vary the terms of the 
account and reduce the limit and set the account to repayment only, which was explained in 
phone calls to both Miss H and Mr H.
While Miss H and Mr H may not agree, under the terms and conditions of the account and 
under the credit agreement it says, We may at any time restrict or suspend the availability of 
credit to you. This clause confirms that no notice period needs to be given and this usually 
occurs when the relationship has broken down or the account isnt being conducted in a way 
the business feels is appropriate. The history of the account leading up to the account being 
set to repayment only, does show a number of issues over returned items and its not for me 
to say whether or not Very should allow this type of account activity to continue. I am 
satisfied the action Very took to restrict the account was in line with those terms and 
conditions, referred to before. 
Where I do have an issue, is with the reporting of the account credit limit to the credit 
reference agencies. While I accept the limit can be reduced for the reasons I have already 
given, what should have happened here is, Very, should have marked and reported a limit 
on the account equal to the outstanding balance. From the information provided to me the 
account balance was £3157 but the limit marked and reported was £3130. While this is only 
a small difference, it does adversely impact Mr Hs credit file and gave him no opportunity to 
bring the balance to within the limit set. This may have been an error by Very as I see no 
other reason why they would decide to set the limit this way, but even so, it has caused 
issues for Mr H and needs correcting. 
While neither party will be completely happy with my decision, I feel it strikes a reasonable 
balance given the circumstances here. As a result, Very should correct Mr Hs credit file and 
pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset this has caused.
Putting things right
I instruct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very to correct Mr Hs credit file 
to reflect the correct limit equal to the balance of his account, in December 2019. They 
should also pay Mr H £100
 for the trouble and upset caused as a result. 
Both Miss H, Mr H and Very responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Miss H, Mr H and Very until 10 April 2021 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. Very have accepted my provisional decision. Miss H has responded and feels its 
still unfair that Very have closed her fathers account and also refers to points regarding the 
returns process that have been subject to a separate complaint to this service, that I cant 
comment on. I understand Miss Hs feelings about the restrictions placed on her fathers 
account, and while she doesnt agree fully with my provisional decision, nothing she has said 
has altered my opinion here, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
With this in mind I see no reason to change or add to my provisional decision, so my final 
decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very to correct Mr Hs credit file 
to reflect the correct limit equal to the balance of his account, in December 2019. They 
should also pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset caused as a result. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very to correct Mr Hs credit file 
to reflect the correct limit equal to the balance of his account, in December 2019. They 
should also pay Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset caused as a result.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman