DRN-3373891
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as L has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr A, a director of L, has complained on Ls behalf. L is also represented in bringing this 
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of L. 
What happened
L held a business protection insurance policy with Covea. L claimed on its policy after its 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Covea turned down Ls claim. It said the core business interruption section of the policy 
covers damage to property and Covid-19 didnt cause damage. Covea said that while the 
policy covers business interruption as a result of a notifiable disease occurring at Ls 
premises, it didnt think Ls losses were caused by a case of Covid-19 at its premises. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, L brought its complaint to our service. It referred to the 
Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption 
Insurance test case to support why Covea should pay its claim. 
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think L had shown its losses were due to a case of Covid-19 at its premises. 
L asked for an ombudsmans decision. It thought its claim should be paid as the Government 
had instructed businesses to close in an announcement on 20 March 2020 and there had 
been a case of Covid-19 at its premises. L also said that the wording of the policy was 
similar to one considered by the Supreme Court and in that case the Supreme Court found 
that cover should apply where a case of Covid-19 had occurred within a specified radius of 
the premises. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ls business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ls claim.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the core business interruption cover within the policy 
doesnt provide cover for Ls claim as Covid-19 didnt damage property, So, I will focus my 
decision on the extension for disease, infestation and defective sanitation.
The extension provides cover for business interruption as a result of:
The occurrence at the Premises of murder suicide food or drink poisoning 
vermin pests defective sanitation or any human infectious or contagious disease 
(excluding Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or any AIDS related 
condition) an outbreak of which the Local or Government Authority has stipulated 
shall be notified to them
Covid-19 is an infectious or contagious disease. So for this extension to provide cover for Ls 
claim, the interruption to Ls business would need to be as a result of a case of Covid-19 
occurring at the premises. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-
19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden 
of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
L said that there was a case of Covid-19 at its premises, but I havent seen anything apart 
from its testimony to support that. In this particular case that isnt enough for me to fairly 
conclude that there was most likely a case of Covid-19 at Ls premises. Therefore, this 
extension doesnt cover Ls claim.
L has referred to the Supreme Court judgment in the FCA test case. However, the Supreme 
Court considered a clause where the notifiable disease was within an area around the 
premises, rather than at the premises themselves. In Ls case the policy requires the 
disease to be at the insured premises. As Im not persuaded that there was most likely a 
case of Covid-19 at Ls premises, I dont think the judgment impacts Ls claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome L was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Ls claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman