DRN-2401965
The complaint
Ms E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt done enough to help 
her when she notified it of difficulties she was expecting to have making repayments to her 
mortgage.
The mortgage is held jointly with Mr B. Mr B has confirmed he is happy for us to consider 
this complaint. As Ms E is the party predominantly bringing and affected by the complaint, 
Ive mostly just referred to her in my decision.
What happened
Ms E and Mr B took out a joint mortgage with NatWest in 2017. The mortgage was on a 
capital repayment basis, repayable over 21 years. They took a further advance in early 
2019. Again, this was on a capital repayment basis and the term matched the remaining 
term on the original mortgage. At the time of taking the further advance they arranged a five-
year fixed interest rate on all of their secured borrowing.
Ms E and Mr B separated. And I understand Ms E is now making the repayments towards 
the mortgage. 
Ms Es employment situation was affected by the pandemic. So, she approached NatWest 
for help. She explained that her job meant she needed to avoid any adverse information 
being registered on her credit record. And so, she didnt want to make any changes to the 
mortgage or put in place any temporary agreement that would result in negative information 
being recorded on her credit file. But she said she still needed assistance from NatWest as 
she expected to struggle with the contractual monthly repayments. 
Ms E asked if the mortgage could be converted to interest only and said she had means to 
repay the capital balance - as she was due to receive as a lump sum, significantly before the 
end of the mortgage term.
A three-month repayment holiday was agreed on the mortgage from May  July 2020. 
NatWest declined the request to change the mortgage to an interest only basis, as it said 
Ms E did not meet its lending criteria. It did agree though, in the event Ms E chose to re-
mortgage elsewhere, to reduce the early repayment charge (ERC) she would incur by 
50%.
Ms E asked our service to look into matters. She was unhappy that NatWest had not agreed 
to the change to the mortgage as requested and that it was not doing anything more to help 
her, despite her being proactive and informing it she was finding it difficult maintaining the 
mortgage repayments.
One of our investigators considered things but didnt think NatWest had acted unreasonably. 
She said NatWest was entitled to review the request in line with its lending criteria, and that 
there werent grounds to set these aside under the rules set by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). And NatWest had shown that the request to change the 
mortgage to an interest-only basis was outside of its lending criteria, so it hadnt acted 
unreasonably by turning this down. She acknowledged Ms E had asked for assistance and 
that shed expect NatWest to continue to discuss with her how it could help. But she also 
noted, with Ms E not wanting her credit file to be impacted, the potential help NatWest could 
reasonably provide was limited. And given NatWest had agreed to reduce the early 
repayment charge payable if Ms E wanted to re-mortgage, she felt it hadnt acted unfairly.
Ms E did not agree. She said she felt NatWest hadnt been helpful or offered any reasonable 
solution to help her at a time where she was vulnerable and had made it aware she was 
expecting to struggle with repayments. So, she asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. As a result, it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read everything that Ms E has said about her circumstances. And Im sorry to hear about 
the difficulties she has been facing and dont doubt that this has been an extremely 
distressing time. And Im conscious that she has been honest with NatWest and was pro-
active in contacting it when she identified that she may potentially have difficulty with making 
the mortgage repayments. What I need to decide is whether NatWest has acted fairly after 
being made aware of this.
One of the things Ms E requested was switching the mortgage to an interest only basis. 
NatWest has provided a copy of its lending criteria in respect of interest only borrowing. 
NatWest has set these criteria based on its commercial judgement, including around the 
level of risk it is willing to accept, and its wider obligations to lend affordably and responsibly. 
NatWest has shown that Ms E does not meet the eligibility criteria for it to provide interest 
only borrowing. This is because it has said her earnings are not above the minimum level it 
requires. NatWest has said this lending criteria applies to all applications for interest only 
borrowing and so Ms E doesnt appear to have been treated differently to other customers. 
There are regulations that have flowed from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review (MMR). 
These brought about stricter lending criteria, to encourage businesses to lend more 
responsibly. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make 
changes to their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed the old rules but 
not the new ones. So certain rules were introduced, allowing businesses to set aside new 
rules around affordability, in certain circumstances. The criteria that NatWest has set out for 
allowing interest only borrowing appear to stem from its interpretation of what was required 
for the mortgage to be affordable. So, as Ms E was an existing customer, Ive thought about 
whether, under the rules I mentioned, NatWest had grounds to set its criteria on affordability 
aside. But having looked at this, Ms Es mortgage, and the change that she was asking to 
make, dont fall into a category that would allow these rules to be set aside. 
Taking all of this into account I dont think NatWest did anything wrong by applying its 
standard lending criteria to Ms Es request to switch to interest only. And as she did not meet 
these criteria, I dont think it has treated her unfairly by declining this request.Ms E has said, NatWest didnt offer any reasonable alternatives in order to assist her while 
she was struggling.
I can see that NatWest agreed a three-month repayment holiday on the mortgage, to provide 
some breathing space, at the outset of the pandemic. And I think this was fair. Ive also seen 
the letter that NatWest sent Ms E when this repayment arrangement was due to end. This 
invited her to get in touch if she felt she was still going to struggle to make repayments. And 
set out some potential options such as extending the repayment holiday or agreeing reduced 
repayments. But it doesnt appear Ms E contacted NatWest again, after this letter was sent.
I can see that NatWest also said it would only charge 50% of the ERC, due under the 
original mortgage contract, in the event Ms E chose to refinance the mortgage elsewhere. 
Again, I think this offer was fair as NatWest was under no obligation to waive or agree to 
reduce the ERC. And it appears, when NatWest said itd be unable to switch the mortgage to 
an interest only basis, that it suggested Ms E contact external organisations that mightve 
been able to help and provide advice.
Ms E has said that this didnt help her with the situation she was immediately facing  
making her current mortgage payments. And she says NatWest didnt offer any other 
suitable alternatives, as she thinks it should have done based on her circumstances and the 
recommendations of the regulator that business do what they can to help borrowers 
following the onset of the pandemic.
Ms E has been very clear though that she wanted to stay in her current property and didnt 
want her credit file to be impacted by any agreement made, as this could impact her 
employment. So, she was unwilling to agree to any changes to the mortgage that would 
have this effect. And I think this has limited what NatWest could potentially do to assist.
A repayment arrangement, where NatWest agreed to accept reduced repayments for a 
period, wouldve impacted Ms Es credit file. Likewise, a temporary switch of the mortgage to 
an interest only basis wouldve represented an arrangement outside of the mortgage contact 
originally agreed, so wouldve been reflected in her credit file.
I note NatWest has told our service that it does not offer temporary switches to interest only 
where someone is facing difficulties. I find this somewhat concerning given that under 
MCOB, the rules set by the FCA around the provision of mortgages, it specifically says 
under rule 13.3.4A that lenders must consider a change to the mortgage type if it is 
appropriate to do so where a customer is facing repayment difficulties. But as Ive already 
said, given what Ms E has said about not being willing to enter into any arrangement that 
could impact her credit file, as this type of arrangement would be recorded on her credit file, I 
dont think this makes a difference here.
Alternatives to repayment arrangements, such as the assisted sale of the property would 
also not have been appropriate given Ms Es aim to remain in her property. So, I dont think 
there was much more, beyond what NatWest did agree to do, that it couldve done to assist 
Ms E. And I dont think it wouldve been reasonable, as an alternative, for NatWest to accept 
payments arrangements or any other variation to the original contractual repayments or 
terms without recording this with credit reference agencies. And taking this into account, I 
dont think NatWest has treated Ms E unfairly.
I would still expect, moving forward, that NatWest engage positively in any further 
discussions with Ms E about the contractual repayments, and look to help where it can. But if 
Ms Es requirements remain the same, I think the further support NatWest is likely to be able 
to offer would remain limited.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman