DRN-3286475
The complaint
Mr G complains C claim he made on his Tradesman Insurance policy.
Mr G is represented by a third party, but for ease in this decision, I will only refer to Mr G.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr G is a roofer and was working to replace the flat roof on a building. There was a fire in 
the building which was attributed to Mr Gs work. Mr G made a claim to Covea as third 
parties were looking to claim against him for costs of building repairs and other 
consequential losses.
Covea considered the claim but rejected it based on the policy having an endorsement 
which says it will only cover work on or in the first four stories of a building including any 
attic or basement. It said the property had a basement and flats which extended into the 
loft space, as such it believes Mr G was working on the fifth storey of the building. Covea 
also added at a later date, that it did not believe Mr G had complied with the burning 
conditions of the policy and had he of wetted down the area or used protective heat 
shields the fire likely would not have happened.
Mr G disagreed with Covea. He said he was only aware the building had four storeys, as 
viewed from the outside. And he wasnt made aware of the presence of a basement. He 
also said that he believed he had done all he reasonably could to prevent ignition of a fire.
Our investigator looked at the case and let Mr G know he didnt think Covea had done 
anything wrong. Mr G asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2022. In it I said I thought the complaint 
should be upheld for the following reasons:
I understand both parties have strong views about what has happened. I want to 
assure them Ive read and considered carefully everything theyve said. Including the 
argument raised around the conditions on the policy and how they should be treated.
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the 
points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties, to reach what I think is a fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Covea has said it doesnt believe the claim should be met due to an endorsement which 
limits its liability to the first four floors of any building. Im mindful here that having viewed 
pictures of the building concerned, on the face of it, it does only appear to have four 
storeys. There isnt any obvious signs of a basement and while some or all of the flats may 
have made use of the loft space the issue here is that Mr G was working on what could be 
considered the ceiling or roof of the fourth floor above ground. Mr G has also said he 
wasnt made aware of the presence of a basement, and I see no reason to doubt this. His 
work was to take place on the roof of the building, so the presence of a basement wouldnt 
be something that would usually be discussed.
Ive also considered whether this endorsement was made clear to Mr G on his policy 
documents. The schedule says, PREMISE RESTRICTION INCLUDING 4 FLOOR 
HEIGHT LIMIT. I dont therefore think this makes it clear basements or attics are included 
in that calculation. Having reviewed this endorsement, I dont think Mr G would have been 
reasonably aware of how Covea intended it to be applied, and therefore I dont think it 
would be reasonable for Covea to rely on this endorsement to decline the claim.
Ive looked at the burning conditions Covea refer to. These are located in the public and 
products liability section of the policy and state they are to be read in addition to the 
general conditions at the front of the policy.
Both parties have provided detailed submissions on each subsection of these conditions 
stating why, or why not, they feel they should be applied. As mentioned above, my role 
here is to come to what I feel is a fair and reasonable conclusion based on the information 
available to me. Im also mindful that in general, insurers shouldnt look to decline claims 
based on terms that arent material to the loss in question.
Having reviewed the information available to me Im satisfied Mr G has reasonably shown 
that he examined the area in question, removed obvious debris or risks that he could see 
and had available to him a fire extinguisher and sand. While there are questions about the 
type of extinguisher he had and how far away that was away from him, Im not persuaded 
even if there was a breach here that would have made a difference to the loss. The site 
where the fire took hold was difficult to reach and the use of the extinguisher and other 
firefighting attempts were unsuccessful. The blaze had to be extinguished by the fire 
brigade.
Similarly, there are questions around whether there was another individual on site to 
assist Mr G, again I dont think this is directly relevant to the loss. The fire started four 
hours after the work had taken place, so even if there was another person with Mr G who 
could assist in inspecting the work, I fail to see how that would have prevented the loss 
happening. Again, as mentioned above, local firefighting attempts were unsuccessful due 
to the location of the ignition of the fire so I think its unlikely an additional person would 
have made a difference here.
The main issue of dispute appears to be whether Mr G took sufficient precautions to 
prevent the ignition of the fire. The policy says the following:
2 where there is a danger of ignition either directly or indirectly, or by conduction of heat 
through partitions or walls, the area on the other side must be examined and any 
combustible material must be removed.
3 combustible floors and other combustible property which cannot be moved must be 
covered and fully protected by overlapping sheets of non-combustible material or 
equivalent protection.
Covea instructed a Loss Assessor and a Specialist Investigator to review what happened 
and provide their comment on the loss. It seeks to rely on the comments of the specialist 
in declining the claim.The specialist investigator concluded that condition 3 was not adhered to by Mr G and 
had he of used non-combustible sheets or other protection - such as wetting down 
surfaces or protecting them with wet sand, it would have likely prevented ignition of the 
fire. However, the same report also comments the fire occurred in an obscured part of the 
building structure. So, Im not sure here, if this comment is made with an ideal world 
scenario in mind?
There is also evidence on Coveas file that the loss adjuster was of the opinion Covea 
would be responsible for the claim as it wouldnt have been possible for Mr G to have got 
any panels behind the flashing due to its location and the method in which the flashing had 
to be applied. Theres also a comment that Mr G couldnt access the area of pitched roof 
where the fire started.
Ive also considered what Mr G has said about the work he undertook. Mr G has said that 
he inspected the area in question and asked for any risks he could see be removed and 
also swept away any loose debris. He said even though he was not required to, he 
requested permission to remove the bottom layer of tiles from the roof, so he was able to 
have site of the area underneath the tiles, however this was declined by the principle 
contractor. He also says he wasnt able to inspect the area where the fire occurred, as the 
door frame was set into the pitched roof. Mr G has mentioned it wasnt possible to 
squeeze a heat shield in front of the door frame due to a lack of space and in any event, 
he was only working on an area six inches square. He has mentioned that he applied the 
heat from the gun away from the door frame.
I see no reason to discount Mr Gs testimony, he is a roofer of 30 plus years experience, 
so I think its more likely than not, that he was experienced in the work he was 
undertaking.
And, having considered everything, including the inaccessible point of the ignition of the 
fire and the amount of time that elapsed before the fire became apparent, overall, I dont 
think Covea have acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Ive also taken into consideration that the purpose of this insurance policy is to provide 
insurance for Mr G in instances such as this. It therefore doesnt seem entirely reasonable 
that Covea seeks to impose conditions which effectively prevent the cover from operating 
as intended.
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Covea have acted fairly in declining this claim.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr G responded saying that he accepted my provisional decision and added the following 
All work carried out in area around the flat was carried out in the previous two days 
apart from one small patch fixed around 9 to 9.30 that morning about six hours 
before fire was discovered.
He was overlaying the roof not renewing it. The existing roof was asphalt which has a 
much higher melting point than the felt he was fixing, therefore it in itself was a sort 
of fire bar.
The new roof covering cannot be laid on wet or dirty surfaces, therefore he had to 
properly clean off before work could commence, failing which it would not stick. The 
roof was swept thoroughly each morning before starting work.Covea said it didnt accept my provisional decision and it made the following comments:
The nature of the floor limit term shows the risk it was prepared to accept and put 
Mr G on notice that taller buildings would not be covered. It would have been 
reasonable for Mr G to check the size of the building.
Fire precautions are standard on commercial liability policies and these terms or 
similar are imposed across the industry.
Mr G wouldve been aware the building was old and therefore he would have been 
aware of the increased need to check the vicinity of the area in which he was 
working. 
The permit to work required him to wet the area, cover it with damp sand or fire-
resistant sheets. He did none of these so breached the permit as well as the policy 
terms. It is not possible for me to say even if he had of done so, the fire would have 
still required the attendance of the fire brigade. 
The limit of indemnity for the policy is only £500,000 and therefore even if it meets 
the claim Mr G will face a shortfall.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to alter the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt persuaded Mr G would have felt the need 
to question the height of the property given it only appeared to have four floors. So, I dont 
think Coveas point here about Mr G being on notice taller buildings would not be covered is 
relevant to this situation. I remain of the opinion it would be unreasonable for Covea to be 
able to rely on this endorsement to decline the claim.
I addressed in my provisional decision why I didnt think Covea was reasonable to decline 
the claim based on the burning conditions in the policy. In coming to this conclusion, I 
considered all of the evidence available to me. 
Covea is correct I am not able to definitively say the fire wouldnt have required the 
attendance of the fire brigade if, had been possible and, had Mr G taken the preventative 
action it has outlined. However, my role requires me to reach what I feel is a fair and 
reasonable outcome based on all of the circumstances of the complaint. And, where there is 
conflicting evidence, such as in this case I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that being what I think is or was, more likely than not to have happened. 
Having reconsidered everything, and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I 
dont think Covea have acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Putting things right
To put things right Covea should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Covea Insurance plc. I direct it to put matters right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman