DRN-3793527
The complaint
Ms K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost to fraudsters.
What happened
The background to this complaint has been set out in some detail by our investigator, so I 
wont repeat it all here. Briefly, over an approximately three week period Ms K had a number 
of interactions with HSBC and fraudsters impersonating HSBC which culminated in her 
sending close to £40,000 to the latter in the belief that she was protecting her money by 
moving it to new, safe, accounts.
A brief timeline of events is set out below. 
28 May 2021  Ms K responded to a fraudulent text message impersonating HSBC. She 
subsequently doubted its authenticity. She contacted HSBC which blocked her online 
banking. Ms K noticed that some transactions had taken place on her account, which she 
reported to the bank. A single transaction was made to an external account, which was later 
refunded by HSBC.
Later that evening she received the first fraudulent call. The caller claimed that attempts had 
been made to use her card and said that replacements would be ordered for her.
 
1 June 2021  Ms K visited the branch to withdraw money, believing her accounts to be 
blocked. The cashier made a withdrawal from the wrong account and didnt mention that her 
current account remained operational.
3 June 2021  Ms K called the bank to reactivate her online banking.
7 June 2021  Ms K called the bank to enquire about the status of her new cards. It came to 
light that no cards had been ordered as the call she received on 28 May 2021 was not 
genuine.
10 June 2021  HSBC called Ms K about a genuine transaction she was attempting to 
make. After HSBC asked her some questions, the payment was released.
16-21 June 2021  Ms K received a series of calls from fraudsters pretending to be HSBC 
and she made a total of eight payments to accounts controlled by the fraudsters. After failing 
to receive a final promised call from the fraudsters, she contacted the bank.
22 June 2021  Ms K reported the fraud to HSBC.
She raised a claim with the bank, but it only agreed to refund 50% of two of the payments 
she made  totalling just under £5,000. It was also able to recover just under £2,500 from 
the banks which received Ms Ks money. HSBC said it wasnt responsible for the rest as it 
had met its obligations under the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code), but Ms K didnt take enough care when making the payments. 
Ms K referred the matter to our service. She explained that the period when the fraud took 
place was difficult for her  it was close to the anniversary of losing both of her parents, 
shed been diagnosed with depression, she had a heavy workload and had been living alone 
during the pandemic. She also complained that the banks handling of her claim had been 
poor and had been subject to long delays. 
Our investigator upheld her complaint in full. In summary they argued:
-Ms Ks personal circumstances are likely to have had an impact on her decision 
making at the time.
-The fraudsters used sophisticated techniques (such as number spoofing) to convince 
Ms K of their authenticity. The investigator thought that would have been convincing 
even though Ms K had received another very convincing scam call during that period.
-HSBC had given some conflicting information, hadnt provided a clear warning and 
had reassured Ms K during the genuine calls it had with her.
-A genuine lower value payment had triggered HSBCs security systems, so Ms K 
would have reasonably felt reassured when the larger payments she was instructed 
to make by the fraudsters didnt flag for additional security checks. 
-The fraudsters appear to have known about the previous fraud claim and 
transactional activity on Ms Ks account, all of which would have added to how 
convincing they were.
-Although negative Confirmation of Payee warnings were shown to Ms K, this was 
convincingly explained away by the fraudsters.
-While Ms K might have contacted HSBC during the period of the disputed 
transactions, she was bombarded with phone calls during that time and shed 
received an explanation as to why the payments needed to be made over a number 
of days.
-HSBC had given scam advice in a call on 28 May 2021 and told Ms K that the bank 
would not ask her to move money, but this hadnt been articulated clearly. 
-Had the bank intervened and questioned the payments Ms K made then its likely 
that the scam would have come to light and the loss would have been prevented.
So, the investigator didnt think that HSBC could fairly rely on any of the exceptions to 
reimbursement set out in the CRM Code and recommended that Ms K be refunded the 
outstanding loss and be paid interest at the same rate she would have received had the 
money remained in her savings account.
HSBC didnt agree. In summary, it said:
-Ms K is an experienced legal professional with a specialism in technology. Her 
characteristics were very relevant, but they hadnt been taken into account. 
-Ms K made 8 payments to six payees at three different banks (none of which were 
HSBC) across four days. She also put in random payee names. This was implausible 
and Ms K had plenty of time to reflect on what she was doing. 
-Though the investigator criticises the calls which took place on 7 and 11 June 2021, 
they have little relevance to the scam.
-A reasonable person would question why they were being asked to transfer in and 
out random sums to protect their account. 
-The warning given in the call on 28 May 2021 was relevant and clear. Ms K was also 
well aware of scams and how to protect herself, so she ought to have been more 
vigilant when she received the later scam call. -Ms K came to the realisation that shed been scammed herself, which demonstrates 
that she could and should have come to that realisation sooner. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position in law and under the terms of Ms Ks account is that she is responsible 
for transactions shes carried out herself. But, HSBC is a signatory to the CRM Code, which 
requires its signatories to refund victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. It also has longstanding obligations to be on the lookout for unusual and out 
of character transactions to try and protect its customers from financial harm from fraud. 
Under the CRM Code a firm may decline to reimburse a customer if it can be shown that one 
of the exceptions to reimbursement apply. Of particular relevance here is whether Ms K had 
a reasonable basis for believing that the caller was legitimate and that she was paying who 
she expected to pay.  
In considering whether Ms K held such a belief, I can take into account both the specific 
circumstances of the scam and the wider circumstances in which the scam took place. I can, 
and should, also take into account Ms Ks characteristics.
Ive noted that the events took place close to the anniversary of Ms Ks parents passing 
away, shed been diagnosed with depression and shed been living alone during the 
pandemic. I agree with the investigator that this is likely to have had an impact on her 
decision making and state of mind. 
This is an unusual and fairly complex set of circumstances. From her initial response to a 
fraudulent text message, Ms K interacted with the bank several times before finally making 
the transactions which are the subject of this complaint. 
Ive considered carefully the fact that Ms K was on notice that fraudsters had tried to access 
her account and might do so again. But, Ive weighed this against the cumulative effect of a 
series of phone calls  some real, some fraudulent, which is likely to have left Ms K 
concerned and confused about the status of her accounts.
Its evident that Ms K was alive to the possibility of scams  she reported concerns after 
responding to the initial text message. Its also clear that Ms K was sufficiently taken in by 
the first fraudulent call that she doesnt seem to have had any concerns that it was 
fraudulent until over a week later. This might suggest that the caller was very persuasive (as 
I suspect they were), but its also important to note that during the first fraudulent call Ms K 
wasnt asked to do anything or disclose any information, so I can understand why she didnt 
have any reason to reconsider whether it was genuine. 
Its odd that the fraudsters would call and not attempt to extract further money from Ms K, 
but I suspect that their plans had been hampered by the fact she had already reported the 
matter to HSBC and her online banking facility was suspended. The fraudsters would, of 
course, have known about the transaction they carried out earlier that day and they likely 
found out during the call that Ms Ks online banking was suspended. Its also probable that 
they acquired other knowledge during this call. I think those facts will become an important 
part of convincing Ms K that the later calls were genuine. When Ms K called to report the fact that she hadnt received her new cards, HSBC staff 
seem to have struggled to identify whether the first fraudulent call was genuine or not. I dont 
find that fact too surprising given, as Ive already outlined, how odd it was for fraudsters to 
call but not attempt to extract money. Nevertheless, I think this confusion added to a blurring 
of the line between genuine and fraudulent interactions and, importantly, HSBC staff failed to 
tell Ms K that its common to receive a follow up call after responding to a fraudulent text 
message or how such a follow up call is likely to unfold. 
A more specific warning was given in the call which took place at the end of May 2021. 
HSBCs advisor said that the bank will never call and ask her to move money. She also 
confirmed that she understood that the correct course of action was to call the bank if there 
was any doubt about who she was speaking to. But this call took place several weeks before 
the first disputed transaction and in quite a different context  an unauthorised transaction 
after Ms K had responded to a phishing text message. That isnt to say that I disregard what 
was said during the call, but rather that its unlikely to have been at the forefront of Ms Ks 
mind, particularly given the significant number of interactions with the bank that followed 
before she spoke to the fraudsters on 16 June 2021. 
Taking all of the above into account, Ive thought about both Ms Ks state of mind and level 
of knowledge when she received the call on 16 June 2021 and when she continued to make 
payments over the following few days. Having done so (and while I accept this is a finely 
balanced point) Ive concluded that Ms K did hold a reasonable basis for making the 
payments.
Its important to consider why Ms K did comply with the fraudsters instructions. It was clearly 
not for personal gain and, given the length and frequency of the calls, neither was it for 
expediency. Rather, its evident that she genuinely believed that she was communicating 
with the bank. I need to consider whether that belief was reasonably held. 
 
Im struck by the ingenuity of the fraudsters  they waited for several weeks after the initial 
fraud to contact Ms K again (on balance, thats likely to have been because they would have 
believed that Ms Ks access to her internet banking would have been restored by this point). 
The fraudsters reinforced Ms Ks belief that there was an ongoing and lingering attempt to 
access her accounts (something which shed seen evidence of herself when the fraudsters 
called after the initial unauthorised payment). They were also able to draw on their 
knowledge of the previous events to give credibility to their claims that Ms Ks account was 
still under threat. And, they went to great lengths to mimic the genuine bank and its 
processes (or what a reasonable person might assume its processes were), not just by 
impersonating its number but also by sending texts to arrange a particular time to call and 
providing a password for Ms K to use in their interactions. So, despite (or perhaps, because 
of) what had happened before I think Ms K held a strong initial belief that she was speaking 
to the bank.
I understand the view that the belief that the genuine bank would instruct Ms K to make a 
number of payments, to different payees, of random amounts, all at accounts held at other 
banks, over a period of several days might seem implausible. But I think that view 
significantly downplays the atmosphere created by the fraudsters. Its evident from the 
number of calls, their duration and the way in which the caller continuously spoke to her 
(pre-empting every step and guiding her through each process) that Ms K was left drained 
and exhausted by the interactions. This was all during a time when she was suffering 
considerable personal stress and, it appears, had few people around her that she could 
confide in and might have provided a different perspective and alerted her to the risk. 
Though Ms K does appear to have questioned the fraudsters about some of the peculiarities 
(for example, the fraudsters said that I.T. problems meant the payments had to take place over several days and the negative Confirmation of Payee results were because the 
payments werent going straight into her new account), it appears that Ms K had largely 
accepted that she was speaking to the bank by this point and this, as well as the frequency 
and length of the calls, I think, explains why she didnt independently contact the bank during 
this period. And, like the investigator, I think the lack of contact by the genuine HSBC during 
this period would have only strengthened her belief that the calls were genuine, given that 
the real bank had intervened on a much lower value and, in my view, far less suspicious 
payment just days before. 
Ive noted Ms Ks characteristics  notably that she is a legal professional who has 
mentioned working in cyber security. But, I havent seen anything to suggest that Ms Ks 
work would mean that she was very familiar with the techniques employed by fraudsters in 
carrying out a scam of this nature. Neither do I think her professional background 
necessarily puts her in a better position to defend herself against such a scam. In my view 
shes no less likely to be susceptible to difficult personal circumstances or tactics used by 
the fraudsters, notably instilling fear and worry about her money.  
Finally, as the investigator pointed out, Ms K only reported the matter after not receiving a 
promised call back from the fraudster, so I dont think she came to the realisation that shed 
been defrauded independently, a fact which only goes to demonstrate the strength of her 
belief in the calls. 
I accept this is a finely balanced point and I agree that there were points in time where Ms K 
might have taken a step back and considered the actions she was taking (and the advice 
that HSBC had previously given), but Im more persuaded by the evidence shes provided 
that leads me to conclude that due to a combination of personal circumstances, 
sophisticated techniques of the fraudsters and preceding events which led Ms K to believe 
that her accounts were at risk, she acted with a reasonable basis for belief and therefore, 
under the CRM Code, HSBC should refund the payments she made. 
Ive also considered HSBCs obligations to protect its customers from financial harm from 
fraud. The first disputed payment of £8,010.20 was by far the largest payment in the 
previous six months (excluding transfers between Ms Ks own account and the unauthorised 
transaction which took place at the end of May 2021). It also reduced the balance of Ms Ks 
account to just a few hundred pounds (an unusual position for it to be in). Against the 
backdrop of the events that had happened the previous month, I think HSBC should have 
been alert to the scam risk here and contacted Ms K before allowing the payment to 
proceed. Had this happened, its possible that Ms K would have refused to speak to the bank 
without them providing the password that shed been given by the fraudsters. But thats likely 
to have alerted the bank to a possible fraud and it seems likely that it would have been in a 
position to prevent the loss. The impact of this finding is limited only to my award of interest. 
It means that interest should be paid from the date of the loss, rather than the date HSBC 
declined to refund the payments under the CRM Code.  
So, HSBC should refund Ms K any outstanding loss from the payments that took place on 
and after 16 June 2021, taking into account any money it has already refunded or recovered. 
It should also pay interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. I can see 
that most of the money came from Ms Ks other accounts at HSBC. Given the nature of the 
scam and that Ms K seems to have had no particular plans for the money, interest should be 
paid at the originating account rates on the money which came from her savings accounts. 
But the money that was already in Ms Ks current account was likely going to be used for 
everyday spending, so I think HSBC should pay 8% simple interest per annum on that 
amount from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.Ive considered what Ms K has said about the service HSBC provided. I can see there were 
some delays, but this was a complex case with several different receiving banks involved. I 
dont think HSBCs conduct fell so far below what is reasonable that an award of 
compensation is warranted. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and instruct it to pay Ms K:
-The total of the disputed payments - £38,211.40, less any money already refunded or 
recovered from the receiving banks. 
-8% simple interest per annum on the monies which were in Ms Ks current account 
immediately prior to the first disputed payment on 16 June 2021. Interest should be 
paid from the date that money was sent to the fraudster, to the date of settlement.
-Simple interest per annum at the originating account rates on the remaining amount 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman