DRN-3137389
The complaint
Mr A complains that Mi Vehicle Finance Limited (MVF) did not make it clear that the interest 
payments were front loaded on his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
Firstly, I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award redress where appropriate. I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have the power to make rules for financial businesses or 
to punish them. 
I am satisfied that MVF has followed the normal methodology for the calculation of interest 
and it has set out the relevant information in the finance agreement. I appreciate that the 
calculations can be complex, but that does mean they are incorrect.  MVF was not required 
to set out the calculations in detail and I cannot say that it has done anything wrong in not 
doing so.
It provided details of the rate of interest and the total sum payable and in its responses to Mr 
A emails it has endeavoured to explain how the calculations are made. MVF has explained 
that:
Interest is not front loaded. The total amount of interest payable over the life of the 
agreement Is calculated upfront as with all car finance/loan agreements and this is explained 
on the agreement. This has to be done like this to determine what the regular repayment is.
Mr. A was provided with an amortisation schedule showing how interest and capital are 
repaid during the life of the agreement.
The settlement quote was calculated in accordance with the relevant regulations. However, 
we did inadvertently charge the final fee twice.
I appreciate Mr A calculated his own estimate of what was due for terminating the agreement 
early and this resulted in him having an explanation of paying a smaller sum to settle the 
agreement. As a result he has suffered a loss of expectation, but I cannot say that MVF can 
be held responsible for that.
It has identified that it made an error in double charging a fee which it has returned along 
with £100 compensation which I consider to be fair.  
My final decision
MY final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman