DRN-2983148
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy about the delay in Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very 
paying her compensation. Shes also unhappy that negative information on her credit file 
hasnt been removed.
What happened
Miss D made a complaint to Very about irresponsible lending and was awarded 
compensation. Shes received the compensation now but is unhappy that there was a delay 
of around three months before it was paid.
Miss D says that negative entries were to be removed from her credit file as part of the 
settlement of her complaint. Shes unhappy that the entries are still showing.
Miss D complained to Very seeking compensation for the delays and the worry caused by 
the entries on her credit file.
In response to the investigation by this service, Very acknowledged that there had been 
delays and offered to pay £20 for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think £20 was sufficient and said Very 
couldve done more to address the delays. He said compensation of £100 should be paid to 
Miss D.
Miss D didnt think £100 was enough. She said the delay had caused her stress over an 
extended period of time and that the default on her credit file had affected her ability to 
obtain low interest credit options.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the final response letter sent by Very on 12 March 2021. This sets out the 
compensation payable and said to allow 21 days for payment. Miss D has provided evidence 
to show that the compensation wasnt paid until June. 
Very doesnt dispute that there was a delay in paying the compensation. It offered £20 to 
reflect the inconvenience caused. I dont think this is sufficient because Miss D had to call 
very several times to chase up the payment, which has taken up her time and caused her 
inconvenience.
Turning to the default registered on Miss Ds credit file. Very has said it was the debt 
collection agency who were reporting on the credit file and that any delay in removing the 
default was due to them. Miss D disagrees and says that whilst its correct that the debt 
collection agency were reporting, Very was reporting as well. Ive reviewed some information 
that Miss D has provided about this, but it isnt clear whether the reporting is by Very or the 
debt collection agency. 
Putting things right
Taking everything into consideration, I think Very was responsible for the delay in sending 
payment to Miss D. And it appears that there may still be items requiring amendment on 
Miss Ds credit file, which Very should look into.
Its clear that Miss D has been caused distress and inconvenience by this. Im in agreement 
with the investigator that compensation of £100 should be paid by Very. I think this is a fair 
and reasonable amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
trading as Very must pay compensation of £100 to Miss D. It must also ensure that any 
adverse entries on Miss Ds credit file relating to her agreement with Very are removed.
.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman