DRN-3537070
The complaint
P, a limited company complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) treated it unfairly when 
it told P that it was going to close its account without explaining why. 
P, through its director, Ms R, wants Starling to keep its account open and pay compensation 
for the stress caused by its refusal to explain why Ps account was to be closed.
What happened
P has a business bank account with Starling.  In March 2022, Starling gave P written notice 
that it was going to close its account in 60 days. Ms R was unhappy that Starling contacted 
her out of the blue without first discussing its decision, particularly as thered never been any 
problem with how P ran the account.
After P complained, Starling explained that it had decided to close the account because one 
of the Persons of Significant Control for P resided outside of the UK. Ms R explained that Ps 
accountant had made a mistake that led to Companies House holding incorrect information. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Ps complaint be upheld. He didnt think Starling 
made a mistake as it sent the closure notice in line with the terms of Ps account. The 
investigator explained that its not possible to compensate Ms R personally for the upset 
caused.
Ms R is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. She points out that she had to 
escalate Ps complaint to be told why Starling had decided to close the account. Ms R 
doesnt think this is acceptable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
As the investigator has already explained to Ms R, P is a limited company and so, its own 
legal entity. This means I cant consider the upset that Ms R has felt personally. I can only 
consider whether Starling acted fairly and reasonably towards P. To do this, Ive thought 
about whether the action Starling took was in line with the terms of Ps account and whether 
it was fair to rely on these terms.
Although Ms R would have preferred it if Starling had discussed its decision to close the 
account ahead of sending the notice, it wasnt obliged to do so. Starling had information 
which showed that one of the Persons of Significant Control for P wasnt a resident of the 
UK. This was in breach of the terms of Ps account. I dont find that Starling was wrong to 
take steps to close the account.
Im satisfied that Starling gave P 60 days notice of the closure as required under the terms 
of the account. I understand that this came as a shock to Ms R but that doesnt mean 
Starling did anything wrong.
Ms R asked Starling for the reasons behind the decision and Starling replied a day later. I 
know that Ms R wouldve preferred to have the reasons upfront but I dont find that Starling 
was bound to have given them as part of the closure notice. 
P updated its profile with Companies House and on 21 March 2022, Starling confirmed that 
the closure notice had been cancelled. Overall, Im satisfied that Starling dealt reasonably 
and swiftly with Ps concerns. As Starling was acting within the terms of Ps account, I dont 
find any reason for it to take further action to resolve the complaint. Im sorry if this comes as 
a disappointment to Ms R.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman