DRN-1552086
 
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) rejected her claim for items of 
jewellery following a theft. Mrs B made a claim under Mr and Mrs Bs home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B went on holiday in August 2019 abroad. Unfortunately the apartment where she was 
staying was burgled. Thieves stole Mrs Bs bag and a pouch containing her jewellery. There 
was no safe in the apartment. 
Mrs B had insured specific items of jewellery under her policy. But when she reported the 
incident in September 2019, esure told her it wouldnt cover the jewellery items. This was 
because cover was excluded if the items werent stored in a safe while not being worn. Mrs 
B thought esures decision was unfair. She thought it should consider her mitigating 
circumstances. The reason why she wasnt wearing her rings was because her fingers had 
swollen in the heat. And she couldnt put the items in a safe as there wasnt one. 
But esure said its decision was correct. So Mrs B asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought esure had acted in line with the policy. She could see esure had 
clearly set out the safe endorsement under the policy in 2017 and at renewal in 2018 and 
2019. So she thought esure had reasonably declined her claim for these items. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said she accepts what the policy says. But she came to us because 
she doesnt think esure should have applied the exclusion as she was on holiday when the 
theft happened. She feels esure hasnt treated her fairly.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for us to decide what risk an insurer is prepared to take on. But we can check if an 
insurer was clear in the policy about any conditions or exclusions that apply to cover. Mrs B 
accepts that her policy with esure sets out a safe endorsement. The policy says:
You and Your Household must keep all Specified Items of jewellery or watches in a locked
safe when you are not wearing them. The safe must meet the following requirements;
The safe must be secured within the wall or the floor
The safe must be anchored to the floor if it is a freestanding styleThe safe must have the adequate security rating* (as set out by the manufacturer) for the 
value of your Specified Items.
*This is often referred to as the 'cash rating'.
All reasonable precautions must be taken to safeguard the keys or combination of the safe.
You and Your Household must abide by all of the requirements of this Term.
I think esure was clear about the conditions under which Mrs Bs jewellery would be insured. 
It was open to Mrs B to obtain travel insurance to cover her jewellery on holiday whilst away 
from her safe home environment.
I understand that the apartment Mrs B was staying at didnt have a safe. And I can 
appreciate the reasons why Mrs B says she wasnt wearing the items. I dont doubt that the 
experience has caused considerable upset and distress, particularly as the items were of 
sentimental value to Mrs B. 
But as Mrs Bs jewellery wasnt stored in a safe when stolen, I think it was reasonable of 
esure to reject her claim. And I think esure has treated Mrs B fairly and as it would any 
customer in the same circumstances. 
I realise Mrs B will be very disappointed with my decision. But I dont think esure needs to do 
any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman