DRN-3044313
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt provided her with a refund of 
premiums for a single trip travel insurance policy she held.
What happened
On 10 June 2019, Mrs A purchased a single trip travel insurance policy online for a holiday 
which was, initially, due to take place from 7 June 2020 until 21 June 2020. She paid a total 
of £223.41 for the policy, which included cover for some medical conditions she declared.
In September 2019, Mrs A contacted Great Lakes to explain that her medical circumstances 
had changed. She also advised that her travel plans had changed, and she now intended to 
travel on 15 June 2020  returning on 29 June 2020. Mrs A was charged an additional 
premium of £38.60 to reflect the changes to her policy. This brought the total payment for the 
policy to £262.01.
On 3 June 2020, Mrs A was contacted by her travel provider. It confirmed that her travel 
plans had been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs A informed Great Lakes of this 
the same day and requested the cancellation of her policy.
Great Lakes cancelled Mrs As policy in accordance with her request and it said she could 
either change the dates for her policy or receive a pro rata refund by way of a voucher for 
£18.33, which it said represented a pro-rata refund of the premiums shed paid. The voucher 
was valid for 36 months. 
Great Lakes said Mrs A initially accepted its voucher offer. But she later complained about 
how it had dealt with her policy cancellation request. In her complaint, Mrs A requested a full 
refund of the premiums shed paid. But Great Lakes declined to increase its offer or make a 
monetary payment to Mrs A. 
Being dissatisfied with how Great Lakes had dealt with her complaint, Mrs A referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into Mrs As concerns and set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 10 June 
2019 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought Great Lakes had made a fair offer in all the circumstances and that the pro-
rata refund offered was fair. They were also persuaded that a voucher refund was 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. So, they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint.
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of Mrs As complaint. But Mrs A didnt. Ive 
therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving her concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of your 
documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you have paid, less 
any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional circumstances such as a 
bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical 
conditions. 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Cover under Mrs As policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate she received. Im satisfied 
Mrs A was reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to her policy, which are 
typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. Its not in dispute that Mrs As holiday was cancelled on 3 June 2020.
When considering single trip policy refund complaints, our service would expect 
Great Lakes to use the date a holiday was cancelled as the date of cancellation for a 
policy. So, we think any pro-rata refund should be calculated from the holiday 
cancellation date.
In this case, I can see that Great Lakes calculated Mrs As pro-rata refund of her 
premiums from 3 June 2020 until the date her trip was due to end. In using the 
holiday cancellation date as the starting point for any refund calculation, Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably as I think it fairly reflects the period 
of time in which Great Lakes was at risk of paying a claim. It was no longer at risk of 
paying a claim from the date the holiday was cancelled and Im satisfied the 
calculation of the voucher refund reflects that they covered Mrs A since she took out 
the policy in 2019. While Great Lakes wasnt obliged to refund any premium to Mrs A, it used its 
discretion to offer her a pro-rata credit voucher refund as an alternative to a pro-rata 
monetary refund. This voucher is valid for 36 months and our service would view this 
as a fair resolution to this complaint because the validity period provides a 
reasonable period within which Mrs A can use it towards future travel insurance 
policies she may wish to take out.
Here Mrs A has told our investigator that shed prefer a pro-rata monetary refund as 
an alternative to a credit voucher. But I havent seen any exceptional circumstances 
that persuade me that Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund. And, in 
the overall circumstances, I think a refund by way of voucher is fair and reasonable.
In offering a pro-rata credit voucher refund when it wasnt obliged to, Great Lakes 
has departed from industry rules and the terms of its policy to the benefit of Mrs A 
because of the unanticipated and unforeseen events surrounding the global Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Ive carefully looked at whether the amount refunded by Great Lakes to Mrs A was 
fair and reasonable. In this case Great Lakes calculated the refund it paid Mrs A by 
dividing the price she paid for her policy by the total cover length (386 days). It then 
multiplied that value by the days Mrs A wasnt on risk (27 days). This gives a refund 
of £18.33, which is what Great Lakes has already offered to pay by voucher. As this 
refund is in line with the approach our service would expect to see Im not going to 
ask Great Lakes to take any further action to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman