DRN-1747563
 
The complaint
Ms L complains that Paymentsense Limited mis-sold terminal hire and card processing 
agreements for her business.
What happened
Ms L met a field representative of Paymentsense in July 2019 at her business. She signed 
what she says she believed was an agreement that would cost her 10 Euros a month. When 
she got the first bill this was significantly higher than that and she then realised she had an 
agreement with another organisation which also billed her. She says that the terms of a 
cashback offer were not explained to her and that she was unable to reclaim the VAT 
element. She wants the agreements cancelled.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he agreed 
with Paymentsense that it was not possible to establish exactly what was said in a face to 
face meeting. But Ms L had signed agreements to take a card terminal and other services 
and for payment processing with the businesses that Paymentsense was associated with. 
The cashback offer details stated that it could be claimed 120 days after the first transaction. 
He considered that all the terms had been set out in documentation at the point of sale.
Ms L did not agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that I think Ms L was fairly bound by the documentation that she signed 
electronically. Ive not seen any other evidence or notes to help me fairly resolve a dispute 
about what had been said to her by the representative for Paymentsense.
The documentation sets out the charges as part of the agreements. The terminal hire itself 
was 20 Euros per month plus VAT. There was a cashback offer of 120 Euros in the first 
year. And I understand that this is how Ms L believed the cost would be reduced effectively 
to 10 Euros a month. But the agreement said that VAT was payable, and the cashback offer 
did not say any VAT element was refunded. There were also charges set out including for 
merchant processing and other services. I dont see that Ms L could not reasonably have 
taken the opportunity to read the documents when they were emailed to her and before she 
signed them committing her business.
Ive seen evidence that following this complaint Ms L also spoke with the customer loyalty 
team in October 2019 and Paymentsense agreed to provide six months of free terminal 
rental and it removed an optional till roll service. Paymentsense has confirmed to me that 
this was unrelated to any resolution for this complaint and that it was separate to the 
cashback offer.
I know Ms L says that she felt things were mispresented to her. But having considered this 
and the evidence available I dont have a reasonable basis to require Paymentsense to take 
any further action. I understand that this will be a great disappointment to her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman