DRN-4498892
The complaint
Mr W complains that Unum Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim he made on his 
employers group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So I havent set it out in 
detail here. Instead, Ive set out a summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr W is insured under his employers group income protection policy. The policy provided 
cover in the event that Mr W was unable to work in his own occupation, as a result of illness 
or injury. The deferred period was 26 weeks.
In December 2021, Mr W was signed-off from work by his GP, suffering from a stress- 
related problem. In April 2022, as Mr W remained unable to return to work, his employer 
made an incapacity claim on Mr Ws behalf.
Unum requested medical evidence to allow it to assess the claim. It calculated that Mr Ws 
deferred period would end in June 2022 and so it determined that Mr W needed to show 
hed been incapacitated due to illness for the whole of the deferred period. Having 
considered the medical evidence, it didnt think there was enough medical evidence to show 
that Mr W was clinically limited or functionally restricted from performing his own occupation. 
And it considered that Mr Ws absence was down to situational stress caused by a number 
of personal stressors. So it didnt think Mr W had met the policy definition of incapacity and it 
turned down his claim.
In June 2022, Mr W began a phased return to work through Unums vocational specialist 
support team. However, in November 2022, he was signed-off again. He was diagnosed with 
fibromyalgia on a background of anxiety and depression. So he asked Unum to review his 
claim.
Unum maintained that there wasnt enough medical evidence to show that Mr W had been 
incapacitated throughout the whole deferred period. And it said it couldnt begin a linked 
period of incapacity following Mr Ws diagnosis, because Mr Ws employer had opted to 
cancel the income protection policy from 1 November 2022 onwards.
Mr W was very unhappy and distressed by Unums decision and so he asked us to look into 
his complaint.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. He felt 
the medical evidence showed that even though Mr W hadnt been diagnosed with 
fibromyalgia until November 2022, hed been suffering from symptoms of fibromyalgia 
throughout the deferred period and beyond. And he noted that fibromyalgia can be triggered 
by stress. So he concluded that Mr W had shown he met the policy definition of incapacity 
for the entirety of the deferred period. Therefore, he recommended that Unum should accept 
and pay Mr Ws claim, together with interest.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2023, which explained the reasons why I 
thought it had been fair for Unum to turn down Mr Ws claim. I said:
First, Id like to reassure Mr W that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent. 
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr W needing to make a claim and 
I dont doubt what a worrying and upsetting time this has been for him. I was also sorry to 
read about the impact of Mr Ws poor health on him and the distressing nature of his 
symptoms. However, having considered all of the evidence, I dont agree with the 
conclusions our investigator reached and Im not bound to agree with him. I need to make a 
decision which I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of this policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Unum handled 
Mr Ws claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr Ws 
employers contract with Unum. Mr Ws employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity 
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Unum to 
consider whether Mr Ws claim met the policy definition of incapacity. This says:
A member is incapacitated if they are unable to perform the material and substantial duties 
of their insured occupation because of illness or injury.
This means that in order for Unum to pay Mr W incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that he 
had an illness or injury which prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial 
duties of his own occupation.
The policy says that Unum will begin to pay incapacity benefit after the end of the deferred 
period. This means that in order for benefit to be paid, Mr W needed to have been 
incapacitated in line with the policy terms for the entire deferred period and afterwards.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr Ws responsibility to provide Unum with enough 
medical evidence to demonstrate that an illness had led to him being unable to carry out the 
duties of his own occupation for the full 26-week deferred period between December 2021 
and June 2022.
Unum assessed the evidence Mr W provided in support of his claim, including seeking the 
opinion of its clinical staff. While it sympathised with Mr Ws position, it concluded that he 
wasnt suffering from a functionally impairing illness which prevented him from carrying out 
his role. Instead, it felt that Mr W was suffering with a reaction to a number of upsetting 
personal stressors, which most likely didnt amount to a defined medical problem. So Ive 
next looked at the available medical and other evidence to assess whether I think this was a 
fair conclusion for Unum to draw.
Ive first looked at the claim form completed by both Mr W and his employer. Mr Ws 
employer noted that Mr Ws fit notes say stress-related problem, he has attributed to family 
circumstances. His (close relative) is also very ill and requires full time support from him. In 
brief, Mr W set out his personal situation, which included supporting a close family member 
with a terminal diagnosis, a close relative with a neurological disorder and family 
bereavement, among other stressors. He noted I am a physical, mental and emotional 
wreck  I am off work with stress. He also listed some physical symptoms, including IBS, 
swollen joints, painful tendons, itching and nerve pain.Next, Ive considered Mr Ws GP records and the fit notes for the full deferred period. Each 
of the fit notes issued between December 2021 and May 2022 state that Mr W was signed- 
off work with a stress-related problem.
On 31 December 2021, Mr Ws GP noted that Mr W had a stress-related problem. They 
noted that Mr W was physically and mentally exhausted by his caring responsibilities and 
that they felt the stress was getting on top of him They stated that Mr W was under too 
much stress  I am aware of what it has done to him in the past and I do not want him to go 
to work.
Around two weeks later, Mr W sought assistance for irregular breathing. The practitioner 
recorded that Mr W had a lot of stress at that time and that he would benefit from 
psychological therapies.
In early February 2022, Mr Ws GP noted: under stress at the momenthis frame of mind is 
such that he just procrastinates, he has lots of things on his platethe symptoms he 
describes are anatomically not related. The records refer to Mr Ws bereavement and his 
close relatives illness.
On 5 April 2022, the GP records again recorded a diagnosis of stress-related problem. The 
GP said that Mr W was still feeling like an emotional wreck, having to deal with the 
aftermath of (bereavement and family illness). Still has non-specific pain [sic] the hands, 
itching all over the place, tingling over the body, pain in left hip as wellexplained to patient 
that symptoms are not specific and that the intermittence of the symptoms are unlikely to be 
related to pathology and are likely related to stress.
Based on the medical evidence available to it when it first assessed Mr Ws claim, Unum 
concluded that he hadnt shown he had an impairing illness which showed he met the policy 
definition of incapacity. It doesnt appear that Mr W appealed Unums decision at that point.
Mr W was able to return to work on a slow, phased return on 23 June 2022. Ive seen the 
evidence Mr W provided about the nature of his duties and his working location and Im 
aware that he wasnt carrying out the full material and substantial duties of his role during the 
period of his phased return.
However, its clear that in November 2022, Mr W was diagnosed with fibromyalgia and that a 
couple of months earlier, his GP had also diagnosed Mr W with mixed anxiety and 
depressive disorder. It appears that he went on to be prescribed an anti-depressant 
medication. And it was at this point that Mr W asked Unum to reconsider its position. Ive 
looked closely at the medical evidence which followed the end of Mr Ws deferred period.
On 8 September 2022, Mr Ws GP referred him to rheumatology. The referral letter says that 
Mr W presented with ongoing aches and pains in multiple joints for a few years nowhe 
does suffer with anxiety and depression, but is not currently on any treatment. The letter 
referred to Mr W being concerned that his symptoms matched with fibromyalgia.
The rheumatologists report, dated 23 November 2022, provides a diagnosis of fibromyalgia, 
anxiety and early osteoarthritis of his hands. They concluded:
The clinical picture is in keeping with early osteoarthritis of the hands and fibromyalgia on a 
background of anxietyI have encouraged him to address his anxiety which will be 
exacerbating his symptomsI will write to him with the results of his investigations but have 
otherwise discharged him to your care.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided and which was available to Unum when it made its final decision on Mr Ws complaint. Its important I make 
it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the evidence 
provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence I find 
most persuasive. It isnt my role to interpret medical evidence to reach a clinical finding  or 
to substitute expert medical opinion with my own - and it would be inappropriate for me to do 
so.
Its clear that Mr W was suffering from symptoms which can also be indicative of both a 
significant mental health condition and a physical illness. Im conscious that Mr W had 
previously been diagnosed with depression (in the months prior to the claim) and that he 
was ultimately diagnosed with fibromyalgia. I appreciate too that Mr W has told us that his 
GP has since told him that his symptoms were always caused by fibromyalgia and that 
theyd be prepared to put this in writing.
But, I have to bear in mind the contemporaneous medical evidence which was available to 
Unum when it assessed the claim and when it issued its final response to Mr Ws complaint. 
For the majority of the full deferred period, Mr Ws GP noted that Mr W was suffering from a 
stress-related problem. They didnt conclude in either the fit notes or their records that Mr W 
had depression or anxiety during that period. The GP instead listed the personal stressors 
Mr W was experiencing as the cause of his symptoms. Indeed, they referred to not wanting 
Mr W to develop symptoms which hed experienced previously. And they specifically referred 
to Mr Ws symptoms likely being stress-related. Id add too that even when Mr W was 
diagnosed with fibromyalgia, on a background of depression and anxiety, the consultant 
rheumatologist didnt indicate that Mr W was unable to work as a result of his condition. Or 
explain why hed be incapacitated from carrying out the material and substantial duties of his 
role as a result of his illness.
As such, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to Unum 
when it assessed this claim, I currently think it was reasonable for Unum to conclude that the 
evidence showed that during the deferred period, Mr W was suffering from an 
understandable reaction to the very difficult situation in which he found himself and a number 
of personal stressors. And that the main reason for Mr Ws absence during the deferred 
period was likely a reaction to the stress he was experiencing as opposed to a mental or 
physical health condition. And, based on the available medical evidence, there arent any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly conclude that Mr Ws absence during the 
deferred period was, with the benefit of hindsight, due to fibromyalgia.
I note that Mr W is unhappy that Unum didnt organise an occupational health assessment 
for him. But I wouldnt reasonably have expected it to. Thats because occupational health 
referrals are usually arranged by an employer to assist with helping their employee back to 
work. Unums role was assess Mr Ws claim.
On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that Mr Ws absence 
wasnt due to an incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly concluded 
that Mr Ws absence was more likely due to personal stressors and a reaction to his 
circumstances.
Id like to reassure Mr W that Im not suggesting that he was fit for work. I appreciate he was 
medically signed-off. And I understand hes been through a very difficult time. But I need to 
decide whether I think hes shown he met the policy definition of incapacity for the whole of 
the 26-week deferred period. As Ive explained, I dont currently think he has.
Its open to Mr W to obtain new medical evidence in support of his claim, should he wish to 
do so. But I must make it clear that any such new evidence wouldnt form part of my 
consideration of Mr Ws complaint. Thats because, as Ive explained, Im not a medical expert and neither would it be appropriate for me to effectively handle Mr Ws claim. Mr W 
would need to send any new medical evidence to Unum for it to consider and to decide 
whether or not it alters its understanding of Mr Ws claim. If Mr W is unhappy with the 
reconsideration of any new evidence, he may be able to make a new complaint to us about 
that issue alone.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ws position, I dont currently find it was unfair 
or unreasonable for Unum to turn down his claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Unum had nothing further to add.
Mr W was very upset by my provisional findings and so he asked a solicitor to represent him. 
Mr Ws solicitor has provided a detailed response to my provisional decision, which I have 
considered and read in its entirety. However, Ive summarised what I consider to be Mr Ws 
key representations:
Unums only objection to the investigators original assessment had been that his 
conclusion was conjecture  it didnt dispute that Mr W had been diagnosed with 
anxiety and depression. The evidence of Mr Ws mental health during the deferred 
period is unchallenged and on that basis, I should find in Mr Ws favour;
Mr Ws mental and physical illnesses had been laid out in a table within the solicitors 
response. All of these medical conditions could be found in Mr Ws medical records. 
Mr W felt Unum had chosen to cherry-pick Mr Ws medical records to support its 
conclusion that he had situational stress and the solicitor considered this to be 
unacceptable. Unum hadnt arranged an independent medical examination for Mr W 
at the time of claim, his earlier return to work, during his appeal or subsequently;
Mr Ws GP provided a letter in support of his claim. The solicitor said that Mr W had 
suffered from anxiety for the whole of his adult life and Unums assertion that this 
condition had abated during this period of absence was absurd;
Its clear that Mr W had the main symptoms of fibromyalgia, even prior to December 
2021. The solicitor provided evidence of studies which show that stress is one of the 
main causes of this condition. Given the stresses Mr W suffered in 2021, it was 
unsurprising that fibromyalgia had flared. Fibromyalgia also takes a very long time to 
be diagnosed  therefore, Unums expectation that it would be diagnosed at the start 
of Mr Ws absence is not tenable, given his plethora of symptoms. The solicitor felt 
this could amount to disability discrimination. It was also important that Mr Ws GP 
had considered his symptoms to be somatic, as such a lack of pathological causation 
is exactly the case with fibromyalgia;
It wasnt tenable to claim it was just conjecture that Mr W had fibromyalgia at the time 
his absence began. But even if Unum maintains that position, then Mr W still had a 
diagnosis of anxiety and somatic symptom disorder  both of which are mental 
illnesses;
Mr W had also been diagnosed with tachycardia in May 2021 and this was available 
to Unum in Mr Ws medical records;
I had stated that Unums only role was to assess the claim. However, this was wrong. 
Mr Ws employer had outsourced the monitoring and management of Mr Ws return to work to Unum. It was quite clear that it should have sought a medical opinion from 
the point of fairly assessing the claim and Mr Ws welfare. And it should have rung 
alarm bells when Mr W wasnt able to complete the phased return to work. Mr W had 
been crying on the calls with the rehabilitation specialist and was very depressed. His 
total average working time during the phased return was only 25% of his WTE. Unum 
hadnt dug further medically because it wanted to rely on the stress golden ticket;
Unum had delayed in communicating with Mr W throughout the claim and neither 
Unum nor his employer had let Mr W know that the group contract was being 
terminated in November 2022;
The solicitor provided NHS and other information about fibromyalgia, the symptoms 
and diagnosis times, amongst other things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W and I know my decision will be 
upsetting for him, I still dont think it was unfair for Unum to turn down his claim.
In my provisional decision, I explained the reasons why I didnt think it had been unfair or 
reasonable for Unum to turn down Mr Ws claim. Ive carefully considered the solicitors 
detailed response to my provisional findings. But overall, my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons. However, I will address what I consider to be 
the key further points Mr Ws solicitor has made.
Mr Ws GP has provided a letter dated 23 October 2023 in support of Mr Ws claim. 
However, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to take the GPs comments into account and so I 
wont be commenting on the content of that letter within this decision. Thats because Unum 
hasnt seen a copy of the letter or had a chance to decide whether it alters its view of the 
claim. So as I made clear in my provisional decision, Mr W will need to send a copy of this 
letter to Unum for its consideration. 
Nor would it be appropriate for me to draw any conclusions from the detailed list of 
symptoms Mr W has told me he suffers from or from the articles and NHS information the 
solicitor has provided. I must reiterate that Im not a medical professional and it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to make any clinical finding about the likely overall cause of the 
symptoms Mr W reported. Again, its open to Mr W to send this information to Unum for it to 
consider should he wish to do so. If Mr W is unhappy with the outcome of Unums 
assessment of any new medical evidence, he may be able to make a new complaint about 
that issue alone.
It remains the case that its for Mr W to show that he was incapacitated in line with the policy 
terms. I understand the solicitor considers Unum had accepted that Mr W suffered from 
anxiety and depression. I dont agree. Unums initial claim decline, dated June 2022, clearly 
stated : overall, the medical information indicates a primarily situational psychological 
presentation, rather than the presence of a pervasive and persistent mental health condition 
that would have prevented Mr W from performing the full insured occupation throughout the 
deferred period. This position was reiterated in Unums response to Mr Ws first appeal. And 
in June 2023, Unum stated the following in its final response to Mr Ws complaint:
The medical records and Mr Ws claim form explain how he was experiencing several 
difficult personal and family stressors prior to and during his absence. His absence is therefore understandable. However, for a claim to be paid, we need evidence that he was 
incapacitated, as the result of an illness, during the deferred period and the evidence does 
not confirm this. During the period between December 2022 and June 2022, the GP has 
documented his absence to be the result of a stress related problem. While an 
understandable reaction to difficult circumstances stress on its own is not medically 
considered an illness, so we are unable to accept a claim based on this alone.
It's clear from Mr Ws medical records that he had previously suffered from anxiety and 
depression and that his GP was concerned that hed develop these conditions once more. 
However, its still the case that during the deferred period, Mr Ws GPs records specifically 
stated that Mr W was signed-off work with a stress-related problem. Neither the GPs 
records nor the relevant fit notes stated that Mr W was suffering from anxiety and depressive 
disorder during this period and nor did they suggest that Mr W was suffering from somatic 
symptom disorder. Theres no suggestion that Mr Ws diagnosis of tachycardia prevented 
him from working either. So Im still satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Unum to rely 
on the contemporaneous medical evidence provided by Mr Ws treating GP when it 
assessed his claim.  And in my view, it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Unum to conclude 
that Mr W hadnt shown he was incapacitated by an illness from carrying out the duties of his 
insured role.
Mr Ws solicitor has questioned why Unum didnt appoint a medical examiner to assess Mr 
Ws condition. However, it isnt obliged to do so. Unum was satisfied it had enough medical 
information to decide whether or not Mr Ws claim met the definition of incapacity. I dont 
think this was an unfair position for Unum to take  especially given it had sought the opinion 
of clinical members of its staff when deciding the outcome of this claim.
I dont dispute that Mr W received support from Unums vocational specialist team when he 
returned to work. I referenced this in the background sections of both my provisional 
decision and this final decision. But a vocational specialist is generally not an occupational 
health adviser, nor a physician. And Im still satisfied that it was for Mr Ws employer to 
organise an OH referral to understand any adjustments it could make and to seek an opinion 
on Mr Ws fitness to work from an occupational perspective.
Mr W considers there were unreasonable delays in Unums handling of this claim. He says 
that his employer didnt communicate Unums claims decision or tell him about his right to 
appeal. Unum isnt responsible for any actions on the part of Mr Ws employer. And as the 
employer is Unums policyholder, I think it was appropriate and reasonable for Unum to 
communicate directly with the employer. I appreciate Mr W feels that Unum deliberately 
delayed the claim so that new evidence would be provided after the insurance contract had 
ended, meaning his periods of absence couldnt be linked. But it isnt clear that Mr W has 
previously complained to Unum about his belief that it made specific representations to his 
employer that he shouldnt try and make a new claim until he had a definite diagnosis of 
fibromyalgia. So I cant fairly comment on this point any further. 
Mr Ws solicitor considers that Unums actions may amount to disability discrimination, given 
the problems hes experienced. I can understand why Mr W may feel this way, but having 
looked at everything, I havent seen any evidence that Unum discriminated against Mr W 
because of his illness. It may be that Mr Ws illness is covered by the disability provisions of 
the Equality Act 2010, but its not our role to make a finding on that point  because thats a 
finding for the Courts to make. Nor is it our role to say whether a business has acted 
unlawfully or not  again, thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a 
number of things into account, including relevant law and what we consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Unum 
has breached the Equality Act 2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint. And having done so, based on all Ive seen, I dont think 
Unum has treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ws position, I find that Unum didnt act unfairly 
when it turned down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman