DRN-4344185
The complaint
Mr E has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
Mr E is represented in this complaint by a solicitor, for simplicity I will refer to Mr E 
throughout this decision, even when referencing what is representatives have said on his 
behalf.
In May 2021, Mr E saw an advert for a cryptocurrency trading platform on social media, he 
was interested in investing and so contacted an adviser at the platform to find out more. 
Mr E had seen client testimonials on the platforms website, and so was satisfied it was 
legitimate. Mr E was told he could expect returns of £10,000 on a £1,000 investment, and 
that his advisers would take 10% of his profits as commission. But unfortunately, the people 
he was dealing with were scammers, and this was not a legitimate investment opportunity.
Mr E paid over £21,000 from his Monzo account to his crypto wallet, then on to the
scammers. He realised it was a scam when they wouldnt let him withdraw his money 
without paying the commission first.
Mr E reported the scam to Monzo a few months later. But Monzo didnt think it was liable for 
Mr Es loss, primarily because hed sent the money from Monzo to a cryptocurrency account 
in his own name, and because it said he had done little to no checking to ensure the people 
he was dealing with were legitimate.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint in part. They 
thought Monzo should have intervened by the time Mr E sent his third payment on 13 May 
2021, and if theyd done so the scam couldve been stopped from that point on. But they also 
thought Mr E shared liability for the loss as he didnt carry out reasonable due diligence. 
They proposed that Monzo refund half of the money that was lost from the third payment 
onwards, plus interest. Mr E accepted the investigators findings, but Monzo didnt agree, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr E has referred to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code in his 
submissions. Monzo is not a signatory of the Code, but does apply the principles of the Code 
in how it looks at scam cases. However, the payments in dispute here would not be covered 
under the Code, as the Code does not apply to payments which the payer has effectively 
made to themselves (which would have been the case here given the payments were made 
to Mr Es cryptocurrency account before being moved on to the scammer). So I will not be 
commenting on the CRM further in this complaint.
Its not disputed that Mr E authorised the payments that are in dispute. So as per the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that 
means Mr E is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mr E was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
Because of this, Mr E is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Mr E, or whether it should have done more than it did.
I accept that there needs to be a balance between responding to potentially fraudulent 
payments and ensuring theres minimal disruption to legitimate ones. But in this case, I think 
the payments involved do stand out as being remarkable, so I think they should have 
prompted Monzo to intervene.
Mr Es Monzo account was not used for day-to-day expenses in the months prior to the 
scam. In April 2022 he began to make payments to a cryptocurrency wallet he held, he 
made four payments over the next few weeks, for £2,455, £180, £300 and £10. Mr E has 
said all of these were legitimate payments and not part of the scam. 
When Mr E began dealing with the scammers in May 2022 this pattern changed somewhat. 
On 13 May 2022 Mr E made three payments in quick succession, for £1,511, £500, and 
£3,000. So, by the time of the third payment on 13 May Mr E had paid a very significant sum 
(over £5,000) to the cryptocurrency platform that day, this was a fairly significant change in 
his use of the account, and this kind of pattern  an increase in payments over a short space 
of time, with multiple payments in the same day  is one of the hallmarks of this kind of 
investment scam. 
The recipient was a cryptocurrency wallet, and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
Action Fraud have previously published warnings about cryptocurrency scams, so Monzo 
shouldve had a good understanding of the risk of these scams and how they work. 
I acknowledge that the payments in dispute here were made to an account in Mr Es own 
name, via open banking, and so could be considered less risky overall to Monzo. However, 
just because a payment is to an account in the consumers own name that does not mean it 
bears no risk at all, and I would still expect Monzo to keep an eye out for particularly high 
payments or those that bore other hallmarks of potential fraud, even if those payments were 
made to another account belonging to their customer. 
I say this because this kind of payment journey  where payments are made from an 
account with one bank, to accounts in the same consumers name, and then on to buy 
cryptocurrency  is increasingly a feature of this kind of investment scam. And I would 
expect Monzo to have an awareness of how these scams operate and be aware of what it 
should be looking out for to help protect its customers.
With all this in mind, I think Monzo should have contacted Mr E directly to ask him some 
questions before allowing the third payment on 13 May to go through.Had Monzo done this, then I think it is more likely than not that the scam would have been 
uncovered. Mr E doesnt appear to have been given a cover story to use by the scammer, so 
I think that if Monzo had asked what the payments were for then he would have been open 
and honest. And what Mr E would likely have told Monzo about what he was doing should 
have rung alarm bells for Monzo, given that these types of investment scam are becoming 
increasingly common. Monzo could then have explained the risks Mr E was exposing himself 
to, and I consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have been broken and Mr E 
wouldnt have proceeded with the payments. So I think Monzo could have prevented the 
losses Mr E incurred from the third payment onwards.
With all this in mind I consider that Monzo bears some liability for Mr Es loss from the 
£3,000 payment on 13 May 2022 onwards.
But Ive also thought carefully about Mr Es role in what happened. I do understand Mr Es 
reasons for making the payments. But Im afraid I think Mr E ought to have had some 
concerns along the way about what was happening. And I cant see that he carried out 
reasonable due diligence before paying the scammers. For example, the returns Mr E was 
promised, and then says he saw on the website, were not realistic given the amount Mr E 
had invested and the time period his funds were invested for. And Mr E says only that he 
saw positive reviews on the fake trading platforms own website, he doesnt seem to have 
done any independent checks to ensure that what he was investing in was legitimate or 
trustworthy. 
So I dont think I can hold Monzo solely responsible for Mr Es losses from the £3,000 
payment onwards. I think Mr E should also bear 50% of the responsibility for those losses.
Lastly, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to try to recover Mr Es 
money. But as the payments went to his own cryptocurrency account, there wasnt anything 
more Id expect Monzo to do there.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Monzo Bank Ltd should:
- Refund 50% of the scam payments from the £3,000 payment on 13 May 2022 onwards 
(inclusive).
- Pay 8% interest on this amount from the date the payments debited the account until the 
date when settlement is completed  but only on the funds which originated from Mr Es 
own account. Mr E had borrowed funds from friends to make payments as part of this 
scam. I dont consider Monzo should pay interest on borrowed funds as I cant see that 
Mr E was charged any interest.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint in part, Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman