DRN-3630161
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC no longer offers a Premier Banking Relationship 
Manager service.
What happened
Mr P opened a Premier Account with Barclays in 2020. At the time, he was assigned a 
specific Premier Banking Relationship Manager (PBRM) who he could contact if he needed 
assistance.
 
In November 2021, Barclays wrote to Mr P to let him know of some upcoming changes to its 
Premier Banking service. One of the changes was the replacement of PBRMs with a 
dedicated team that would be contactable by phone.
Mr P was unhappy with the banks decision, so he complained about it. He said, in summary, 
that hed agreed to use Barclays on the basis that it offered individual PBRMs and, by 
removing the service, the bank had now broken its agreement with him.
  
Barclays called Mr P to discuss the matter. During the call, Barclays adviser explained that 
the replacement of dedicated PBRMs with a telephony team was a business decision. She 
apologised to Mr P that the banks decision wasnt something hed have chosen, but that 
nothing would change. Mr P asked to speak with someone else, a senior manager who 
could change the decision, but the adviser said this wasnt possible. She explained that 
senior managers dont take direct calls and, in any event, they wouldnt be able to give Mr P 
the answer he wanted. 
Barclays then sent Mr P a letter on 24 January 2022 confirming that it had closed his 
complaint.
 
Mr P remained unhappy, so he approached our service for an independent review. He 
maintained that Barclays decision to remove PBRMs was against the agreement hed had 
with the bank. Mr P also provided a copy of an email that hed sent to the bank in which hed 
set out the details of the individual PBRMs he was dealing with, and that he must be 
informed immediately if these contacts changed.
 
An investigator here looked at what had happened. Overall, he didnt think Barclays had 
done anything wrong. He said that while he understood the change wasnt to Mr Ps liking, 
Barclays hadnt acted unfairly in removing its PBRM service and offering an alternative. The 
investigator explained that the bank was, ultimately, entitled to take such decisions.  
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know it will disappoint Mr P, Ive reached the same conclusion as 
our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Its clear from Mr Ps correspondence, with both Barclays and our service, that he places 
great importance on having a single point of contact. So much so that hes said he only 
agreed to move to Barclays in the first place because it offered such a service. But while I 
acknowledge that Mr P has a preference for how hed like things to work, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that there was any guarantee or promise that the PBRM arrangement 
would continue indefinitely. 
I know Mr P considers it to be the case that he had a personal agreement in place with 
Barclays which hed arranged via email. Hes referred to this email as his own terms and 
conditions that he says the bank has now broken. But I dont see things in quite the same 
way. 
Instead, I think Mr Ps email to Barclays specifies who he understood his contacts to be; their 
phone numbers, and the accounts they were looking after. It also expresses a desire to be 
informed immediately if any of these details changed. I dont think theres anything unusual 
in that, but I dont find that it amounts to terms and conditions. And I cant see any 
particular reason why the bank wouldnt have agreed to Mr Ps email at the time, given the 
PBRM service still existed at that point. But that doesnt mean the bank was obliged to keep 
providing such a service specifically to Mr P or, for that matter, at all. 
Barclays has said that the move away from specific PBRMs was designed to improve its 
premier banking service. Ive seen that, when it wrote to Mr P to explain the changes, 
Barclays listed several benefits that a telephony team could provide which just wouldnt be 
possible otherwise. So, Barclays thought this change would provide a better service and  
while Mr P may not agree with that  the fact is that banks can reorganise their business 
structure and take commercial decisions about how they operate.
It follows that while I appreciate how strongly Mr P feels about the matter, I find that Barclays 
was entitled to make the change that it did here. And I dont think that the bank has treated 
Mr P unfairly  or that its broken any agreement  as a result. Instead, Im satisfied that it 
made a legitimate commercial decision.
 
Aside from being dissatisfied at the move away from PBRMs, Mr P has also said hes 
unhappy that he wasnt able to speak with a senior manager when he asked to. Ive listened 
to the relevant call recording and I can understand why Mr P wouldve been frustrated. That 
said, I dont think Mr P has suffered any detriment as a result of not speaking with a 
manager. I say that because the adviser Mr P was dealing with clearly explained how the 
move away from dedicated PBRMs was a business-wide decision, and not something that 
any individual could overrule.
 
So, even if Mr P had been able to speak with another person, I dont think the position would 
have been any different. And, on the whole, I think its more likely that the adviser was 
simply trying to save Mr P more time spent on the phone  rather than being purposefully 
obstructive  if nothing was ever going to change. I dont think thats unreasonable. 
To sum up, taking everything into account, I dont find that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here. And while the changes to Barclays operations may not be to Mr Ps 
liking, it follows that I dont require the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman