DRN-3667629
The complaint
Mr I complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined to repair a 
fault with his cars control unit under his motor insurance policy following an accident.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr I was involved in a car accident. A third party collided with the rear of 
his car resulting in some damage. Mr I wasnt considered at fault for the accident and repairs 
were carried out. Following the repairs, he says there is still a fault with his vehicles 
infotainment screen. The screen was initially stuck on the rear-view camera, with 
subsequent intermittent faults since. A parking sensor was subsequently replaced, but the 
problem remained. 
An engineer at LVs appointed repairer didnt think the collision couldve caused damage to 
the main control unit  which was thought to be the source of the fault. The car was 
assessed at the main dealer, where it was identified a replacement unit would cost around 
£8,000. However, Mr I says further investigation wasnt carried out due to the risk of 
destroying evidence as to how the damage was caused. 
LV arranged for another engineer to inspect. He didnt think the fault was related to the 
accident claim. But suggested a specialist be appointed. LV wasnt able to arrange for a 
specialist to carry out further investigations, but decided it was satisfied with the first 
engineers opinion. It offered to consider the matter further if Mr I arranged an independent 
inspection himself. 
Mr I didnt agree to this, he thought it was clear the fault was caused by the collision and LV 
should pay for the repairs. So, he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He thought LV had done enough to investigate the matter and 
reasonably conclude the fault with the infotainment system wasnt caused by the accident.   
Mr I didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing for him, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My remit here is to consider whether LV behaved reasonably when establishing if the 
damage Mr I complains of resulted from the accident. I have relied in part on the expert 
opinion provided.
Mr I says that following the accident, and having reported the matter to LV, he noticed the 
infotainment screen was faulty. This was around 30 minutes after the accident. Mr I took 
photos of the screen, which I have seen. 
I note Mr Is comments that he went to collect his car having been told the repairs were 
complete. But the repairs hadnt been completed. When driving the car a warning sensor 
indicated a fault with the parking sensor. He says the managing director of the garage 
noticed his distress and arranged for a diagnostic to be run on his car. This found the 
parking sensor fault and a wire loom fault. 
I can understand why Mr I was disappointed that his car wasnt repaired when he was told it 
had been. From his testimony the engineer he spoke to called him shortly after his visit to 
the garage. This was to apologise for the failure to identify the parking sensor issue. In the 
circumstances described I think it was appropriate for the engineer to apologise. 
LV subsequently agreed the sensor could be repaired at the main dealer. Unfortunately, this 
didnt repair the underlying fault with the infotainment system. 
Mr I explains that the main dealer wasnt willing to conclusively identify the cause of the fault 
- but did confirm it would cost £8,000 to replace the affected unit. He says LV told him he 
hadnt reported this fault at the time he made his claim. But it did agree to arrange an 
inspection by a further engineer. 
I have read the reports provided by both of the engineers LV appointed to inspect Mr Is car. 
The excerpts below are taken from the first engineers report:
Info screen rear camera stuck on, and when pressing left lower corner of screen system 
reboots.
Screen functioned correctly, however it would reboot if screen pressed in LH lower corner, 
cant see how related, But agreed sensor problem might be causing it to reboot so once 
sensor replaced, will recheck and may require dealership involvement.  
The report includes reference to a phone call between the engineer and Mr I. It says:
I felt the info system would not have been affected with the light rear impact. PH disagreed 
asking why it stayed stuck on the rear-view camera, which I could not explain but advised it 
is not stuck now. PH stated the camera was not clear now, but when I tested it appeared 
clear. I cant see how related to incident based on experience over the years of inspecting 
accident damaged vehicles.
In a later internal email during LVs complaint investigation  the engineer was asked to 
comment further. He advised that he had been through this on a number of occasions but 
still felt the fault lay with the control unit and that this wasnt related to the accident. He says 
he was aware that the control unit had previously been sent for repairs in 2019 in relation to 
a fault. He says the parking sensor fault isnt likely to be related to the fault with the screen 
re-booting.  
I acknowledge Mr Is strongly held view that the photos he took of the frozen rear-view 
camera, show that the fault occurred at the time of the accident. However, I must also 
consider the engineers opinion. The engineer is clear that he didnt think the light impact of 
the collision couldve caused damage resulting in a problem with the main control unit.
The second engineer to inspect Mr Is car stated the following in his report:
I was advised by your insured of the following complaints/faults: The audio head unit started 
to malfunction after impact and it is now intermittently inoperative. On examination to the audio unit I found it to be in situ with no visible defect or damage, the screen and control 
switches were intact, When pressing the power button the unit would not activate no power. 
It is in my opinion that the audio unit head fault is not related to the claim under notice.
However I have no proof to support or relate this therefore to assist further in this matter you 
may wish to consider a specialist in this field (electronic repairer) investigate the fault further 
and report.  
From his report the engineer contacted a number of specialists, but they were either not 
prepared to assist or unable to. 
I think it was fair that LV sought an opinion from an engineer. This is what wed expect an 
insurer to do in these circumstances. The original engineer is clear in his view that the 
impact didnt cause the damage Mr I describes. The second engineers report doesnt add 
much more detail in support of this, other than to say he didnt think the accident was the 
cause of the damage. Further specialist opinion couldnt be obtained. But I think LV acted 
reasonably in its attempts to investigate the likely cause of the damage. It then relied on the 
expert opinion when declining further repairs. 
I have thought about Mr Is testimony that the problem is likely to be caused by a loose 
connection. He refers to the system failing on rearward braking, and that it works when 
parking with the front end pointing down on a slope. He is adamant that the system was 
working prior to the accident. And that he wouldnt have arranged a holiday driving abroad if 
the fault already existed. I also note Mr Is comments that he isnt prepared to arrange an 
independent inspection unless LV accepts the damage was caused by the accident. 
Having considered all of this, I think LV acted reasonably to identify if the damage was 
covered by Mr Is policy. Im more persuaded by the view of LVs engineers that the 
damaged infotainment system couldnt have been caused by the light impact of the collision. 
I think its fair that LV reconsiders the claim - if Mr I is able to produce an independent report 
that shows the accident caused the damage. But I dont think LV has been unfair in declining 
to take further action in these circumstances. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman