DRN-2944144
The complaint
Mr S, a director of E, a limited company, complains about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limiteds handling of a claim made on a legal expenses insurance policy.   
What happened
E holds legal expenses insurance with DAS. A dispute arose relating to property charges 
and E sought cover on the policy for the costs of appointing legal representatives. The 
details of the dispute arent relevant to my decision.
Mr S made a complaint to DAS about the way it had handled the claim. He was unhappy 
about how long DAS was taking to confirm that the claim was covered. After it had done so, 
he complained that the delays had meant that hed been unable to arrange proper legal 
representation before the trial, and as a result hed had to represent E himself in those 
proceedings. He said this meant that Es defence of the claim made against it had been 
unsuccessful and adverse costs had been awarded against E. He further alleged that DAS 
conduct during the claim and its dealings with him were discriminatory on the grounds of his 
ethnicity.
DAS acknowledged that an error had been made on the claim when it incorrectly declined 
cover initially. It said that the claim was covered and offered £200 compensation. It didnt 
accept that the delays had affected Es defence or that it had discriminated against Mr S. 
Mr S referred the complaint to our service. During the course of our investigation, DAS 
agreed to carry out a retrospective assessment of the prospects of success of Es claim. Our 
investigator thought this was a fair outcome. She also didnt agree that DAS had 
discriminated against Mr S. Mr S, on behalf of E, didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by considering the question which, Im satisfied, lies at the heart of the dispute 
between E and DAS. This is when could DAS reasonably have confirmed there was cover 
for Es claim.
DAS determined that there was cover available for Es claim in December 2020, but I think 
that the evidence supports that this decision could have been reached nearly seven weeks 
earlier in October 2020. This was when DAS had received all of the information it needed to 
consider cover after being in contact with Es chosen barrister. It had been agreed the 
barrister would carry out an assessment of the prospects of success of the claim and provide 
other information relating to the dispute (except for one piece of information Ill mention 
below). 
It isnt disputed that on receipt of this information, DAS made an incorrect determination that 
the claim wasnt covered as it considered it was related to a lease held by Mr S personally 
rather than a contract dispute involving E. DAS was corrected on this point and, after 
confirming the date the dispute arose, confirmed cover in December 2020.
Im aware that after noting it had made the incorrect decision regarding cover in November 
2020, it wasnt until December 2020 that cover was confirmed as DAS sought to confirm the 
date the dispute arose in order to ascertain whether it was within the period of insurance 
cover. However, it seems to be accepted that it could (or should) have requested and 
obtained this information much earlier in the claim process. It seems reasonable to me to 
say it should have confirmed this before October 2020, when it had the information required 
in order to make a decision regarding the policy cover from the barrister.
I conclude that DAS could have confirmed cover in October 2020, when it made the incorrect 
decision to decline cover.
I next need to consider the effect that this delay of around seven weeks had on E, and in 
particular its ability to defend itself at the trial in December 2020. After DAS confirmed cover, 
attempts were made to appoint a solicitor who could represent E  the barrister whod been 
representing E had made it clear for some time that the matter would be better dealt with by 
a solicitor but E had retained the barrister. However, for various reasons including the very 
short time before the trial, this wasnt possible. 
I dont think DAS did anything wrong in its attempts to find an appropriate solicitor as it 
considered various options and contacted a number of different solicitors without success. I 
know Mr S holds DAS responsible for this as he says that a rate was offered to a solicitor 
which was too low. I can see that rates were a point of discussion but that the lack of time 
available prior to trial seems to have been the primary reason why a solicitor couldnt be 
appointed.
I dont think it can be said for certain that E would have been able to find appropriate 
representation if DAS had confirmed cover for the claim in October but I think it is fair to say 
that its likely representation could have been found and properly instructed with the extra 
time which would have been available. From DAS responses to our investigator on this 
point, I think it agrees with this assessment.
I know that Mr S says E would have been successful at trial if it had been represented, 
rather than having Mr S be the litigant in person. Mr S was asked to provide a copy of the 
judgment so that we could consider this point, but declined to provide it. I dont think its 
reasonable to ask DAS to pay all of Es losses arising from the trial without seeing evidence 
that E was unsuccessful only because Mr S was the litigant in person (which its accepted 
likely occurred because of DAS delay in confirming cover).
Having concluded that theres insufficient evidence to say that DAS errors caused E to be 
unsuccessful at trial, the question is how things should be put right. In order to move things 
forward, DAS has offered to have an assessment of the claims prospects of success carried 
out based on the information available prior to the trial in December 2020. 
I know that Mr S disagrees with this proposal. He points to the barrister who completed the 
original assessment as saying E had a 60% chance of success. And so he says theres no 
need for any further assessment to be done. I dont agree. Es policy has, in common with 
many legal expenses insurance policies, a condition saying that cover will only be provided 
where the claim has reasonable prospects of success (ie more than 50%), and that this is 
ongoing  the claim needs to have such prospects throughout. 
The situation here is that more information was provided in December 2020 ahead of the trial, and its reasonable to expect that on receipt of that information an assessment would 
be made to determine whether the claim still had prospects of success. 
In normal circumstances, that assessment would be carried out by the appointed legal 
representative of the policyholder  but here there is no such representative as its being 
made retrospectively. DAS has therefore proposed that it ask a barrister to carry out the 
assessment, with the assessment being based on the information available in December 
2020 (ie without reference to any of the material from the trial itself).
I think this is a reasonable solution. The original prospects assessment was completed by a 
barrister and so DAS are being pro-active in identifying that a barristers opinion would likely 
be appropriate. And in the absence of a legal representative who took the matter on, and is 
aware of the relevant information, its fair for DAS to identify an appropriate representative. 
This further assessment would give one of two outcomes. Either the claim continued to enjoy 
prospects of success prior to trial, or it no longer had reasonable prospects of success. 
If the barristers further assessment concludes that Es claim no longer enjoyed prospects of 
success before the trial, Im not persuaded that DAS should be asked to do any more. This 
is because, if it had reached this conclusion, cover for the claim would have been withdrawn. 
This would have meant that E was left without cover for a legal representative. And the 
evidence we have is that, in the absence of a legal representative, Mr S acted as a litigant in 
person at the trial. 
Its clear from Mr S correspondence that E was determined to dispute the charges which 
gave rise to the proceedings (and remains satisfied that if there had been legal 
representation would have won at trial) so I think its more likely than not that if cover had 
been withdrawn following a negative prospects assessment, he would have acted in the 
same way. I think that even if hed been told the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success and DAS had withdrawn cover, hed have disagreed with the assessment and 
continued with the proceedings.
Ive considered whether a policy condition which says We may decide to pay the person 
insured the amount of damages that the person is claiming or is being claimed against them 
instead of starting or continuing legal proceedings should apply here, and whether DAS 
should consider making a payment to E for the amount which was in dispute if it would have 
withdrawn cover. I dont think it does apply. It seems to me that the condition is referring to 
claims for damages  this was a claim made in respect of a contractual dispute, and whether 
E was liable for charges which had been presented. The condition Ive referred to isnt 
intended to cover this sort of claim.
On the other hand, if the barrister concluded that Es claim continued to enjoy prospects of 
success prior to the trial, I think its reasonable to say that DAS should then review the costs 
which were awarded against E at the trial and assess what liability, if any, Es covered for on 
the policy for these. I understand that adverse costs were awarded against E and so these, 
along with the reasons why they were awarded, should be considered. At this point, no 
assessment has been carried out, and the details around the adverse costs havent been 
provided. So Im unable to say how DAS should approach this if it arises that policy cover 
would have remained in effect for the trial. 
DAS has recognised that it made an error in telling Mr S that the claim wasnt covered in 
October 2020. It paid £200 compensation to recognise this. Our investigator recommended 
that a further £200 compensation be paid. I know that Mr S has said that the way the claim 
was handled caused him a great deal of distress. I dont doubt this is the case but this 
complaint is brought by E as the policyholder. Im therefore only able to award compensation for inconvenience caused to E  not distress to Mr S. I think in the circumstances that the 
£200 awarded by DAS doesnt adequately take into account the inconvenience caused. The 
decision regarding cover was made incorrectly but put right within a few weeks. However, 
these were very important weeks as the trial date was close and Mr S (as Es representative) 
was inconvenienced by having to engage in further correspondence with DAS about the 
claim and attempts to secure legal representation  such attempts would likely have been 
needed but possibly to a lesser extent, requiring less representatives having to be contacted, 
and certainly without the time constraints of a trial within a few weeks. 
Im conscious that the delay in confirming cover was a number of weeks whereas the claim 
was ongoing for many months before that. During the period leading up to the issues with 
confirming Im satisfied DAS was acting reasonably and seeking to obtain the necessary 
information to be able to confirm cover  I dont think that delays which occurred in that time 
were because of any action or inaction by DAS. I think DAS should pay an additional £200 
compensation to E to recognise the inconvenience caused.
Theres also been a query as to whether DAS should refund the £500 excess paid by E once 
cover had been confirmed. Its suggested that as no legal representation was secured for the 
trial, then DAS should refund this. I dont agree. DAS has paid Mr Es appointed barrister to 
complete the original assessment of the claims prospects of success and provide 
information (the cost of this is more than the policy excess). The policy says that E will be 
responsible for the first £500 of legal costs. Legal costs are defined in the policy as all 
reasonable and necessary costs chargeable by the representative on a standard basis. So 
it seems to me that the £500 paid by E was payable once the barrister had charged DAS for 
the assessment. 
Finally, Ive considered Mr S suggestion that DAS conduct during the claim was 
discriminatory. He says that once details of Es work and his ethnicity had been disclosed to 
DAS, its approach to the claim changed and it became obstructive in providing cover.
DAS has identified an issue with the way it addressed cover for Es claim and Ive concluded 
that this caused an unnecessary delay to cover being confirmed. The effect of this was that 
E didnt have legal representation at the trial. Having taken on board all of Mr S comments 
in behalf of E, Im not persuaded that Mr S race played a part in the incorrect decision 
initially made by DAS. It seems to me that this arose because of a misunderstanding of the 
nature of the contract which was at the centre of the dispute and Es relationship to the 
contract and the premises covered by it. I can see that the particular point which led to this 
misunderstanding was one which DAS had been seeking clarification on from Es barrister 
for a number of months and that on being provided with a response, made a determination 
which was unfortunately incorrect. As Ive highlighted above, this was put right by DAS and 
its offered to look into what cover might be available under the policy.
Ive also considered the way DAS handled the claim throughout the period Mr S complains 
about, and whether there was any noticeable change in the way it approached the claim or 
its contact with him once hed given details which could identify his ethnicity and the work 
done by E. I dont think there was. As Ive said above, other than incorrectly declining cover 
for the claim, Im not persuaded that DAS were responsible for any avoidable delays in the 
claim. It requested information from Es barrister to assist with the assessment of cover and 
was in regular contact with them to chase this up.
I cant place the responsibility on DAS for the length of time it took for all the information to 
be provided. Its requests for information were proportionate and necessary in order to 
assess cover under the policy. 
My final decisionIts my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right, DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited must:
Appoint a suitably qualified barrister to carry out an assessment of Es claim and 
whether it enjoyed reasonable prospects of success in December 2020, prior to the 
trial.
In the event that this assessment concludes that the claim continued to enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success, assess what cover is available on the policy for 
costs awarded against E following the trial. 
Pay an additional £200 compensation, making £400 in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman