DRN-4163168
The complaint
Miss B complains Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has declined a claim on her home insurance 
policy following an escape of water.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In March 2018, Miss B made a claim for damage caused by a burst pipe in the attic. 
Miss B arranged for a plumber to repair the pipe to mitigate the loss.
Lloyds sent a claims management company to assess the damage. On receipt of the 
report, it felt further investigation was needed to determine if the damage was 
covered under the policy.
Lloyds appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim, but it declined it saying the 
damage was gradually caused by poor maintenance and the damage was not the 
consequence of a one-off event. It also referred to damage that could be seen in 
photographs of the property when it was up for sale in 2015. The report also noted 
that the there was no physical damage which could be noted to the contents which 
was due to the escape of water under consideration.
Following a previous complaint Miss B made to Lloyds in August 2020. Lloyds 
offered £150 compensation by way of an apology for not explaining the claim process 
more clearly and this payment included the cost of the plumber (£43.20) who fixed 
the cold-water pipe.
Miss B made a further complaint following the declination of the claim.
Miss B has said the whole process has made her ill and she has had to rely on 
others to help her sort things out. She said the poor maintenance referred to in the 
attic ensuite isnt relevant as the ensuite hasnt been used since 2015.
Our investigator didnt uphold the buildings part of the claim. She felt it was fair for 
Lloyds to reject it, as the damage being claimed for didnt appear to be consistent 
with a one-off event and looked to have happened gradually which simply 
exaggerated the effects of maintenance issues throughout the property. But she 
noted it wasnt disputed that a leak happened, and she did think that Lloyds should 
cover the trace and access costs and any contents that specifically were damaged by 
the leak. She also recommended £300 compensation should be awarded for the 
distress caused.
Lloyds didnt agree with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me, 
an Ombudsman to make a decision.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 11 May 2023. This is what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to uphold this complaint and Ill explain below my reasoning.
The policy covers loss or damage caused by various perils outlined in the policy. In this case 
the leak Miss B experienced comes under the escape of water peril.
Miss B has provided evidence of her contractor costs which show that a wall was knocked 
into to expose and locate the leaking pipe. She has also provided evidence of higher water 
usage, photographs and a statement from a contractor she had working at the property at 
the time of the leak. Therefore, Miss B has evidenced the one-off event that caused the 
escape of water.
Lloyds hasnt disputed a water leak happened but has declined the claim as it believes the 
damage is historic and resultant from a lack of maintenance, specifically the poor quality of 
sealant around the shower tray in the attic shower and sections of tiles missing grout, as well 
as evidence of mould within the shower area of the first floor ensuite so it has said the 
damage to the affected areas was due to migration of water from numerous independent 
water sources over a prolonged period of time. It said there was a lack of evidence to 
support a specific one-off event.
Lloyds said that theyve reviewed pictures from 2015 when the house was up for sale which 
show pre-existing water damage and staining in various parts of the house. Our service has 
asked to see these pictures however Lloyds havent provided them, so Im unable to include 
these within my investigations. Therefore, I cant agree that Lloyds have shown its evident 
that the same areas of damage being claimed for in 2018 were shown to be present in 2015.
Even if I did agree that Lloyds had shown this, which I dont, Id then expect them to say 
what damage was historic and what was a result of the recent escape of water which cant 
be disputed that took place in 2018. Lloyds accept that there was more than likely a leak 
from a water pipe within the attic void yet say this has exacerbated pre-historic damage.
I think its clear that a new leak happened in 2018, sending water throughout the house. Im 
not satisfied that Lloyds have shown that this water only travelled to areas that they consider 
were showing signs of previous water ingress damage. Its unreasonable of Lloyds to say 
that the leak in 2018 didnt cause any new damage.
Lloyds have relied upon the policy term which says they wont cover any damage that 
happens gradually. However, Im not satisfied that theyve shown that any of the damage 
being claimed for is historic, and not a result of the 2018 leak. I also consider that given the 
time thats passed since the leak, theres no benefit in Lloyds carrying out any new visits to 
the property and further delaying the claim. Im satisfied Lloyds should now accept the claim 
for escape of water damage to the building, in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy.
As Im satisfied an escape of water did occur and Lloyds doesnt dispute this, I can find no 
reason why it didnt cover the trace and access costs. The terms of the policy specify the 
following:
17. Tracing and accessing leaks - If the buildings are damaged due to water 
escaping from pipes in the home, we will pay the reasonable costs of removing and 
replacing any other part of the Buildings necessary to find the source of the leak and 
making good. The most we will pay for any one claim under the policy is up to 
£5,000.I understand Lloyds has previously paid for the plumber, but I cant see Lloyds covered for 
making good any of the trace and access works. Therefore, Lloyds should cover this cost in 
line with the policy terms and conditions.
Lloyds havent provided any settlement for the contents items that were damaged during the 
escape of water. From what Miss B has provided, the items that shes said were damaged, 
and their locations, all seem plausible. So, I consider that Lloyds need to review the 
damaged contents items under the policy in place. Lloyds has a duty to consider claims 
promptly and fairly and it should now do that, and for each item Miss B has claimed for, 
settle it or explain to her why it wont do so.
Miss B says she was misled about the outcome being successful in the early stages of the 
claim. I havent identified that this has been shown therefore I cant agree with Miss B on this 
point.
Miss B has explained the impact of this claim on her health and her personal circumstances.
I appreciate that having the claim declined, incorrectly in my opinion, wouldve significantly
caused distress and inconvenience, as well as taking into consideration the length of time
Miss B hasnt been put back into a pre loss situation. I therefore intend to increase the
compensation to £1,000.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to 
do the following:
Accept the escape of water claim under the policy, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy
Review the contents that Miss B has provided as being damaged by the escape of 
water and provide a settlement for these items, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy
Cover any trace and access works which Miss B has paid for on evidence of 
payment from Miss B. Add 8% a year simple interest* from when Miss B paid until 
date of payment, or include these works within the claim settlement if Miss B hasnt 
paid for them
Increase the compensation to Miss B to a total of £1,000. Lloyds must pay this within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays 
later than this, it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B responded to my provisional decision and said she has an estimate of loss for the 
contents of approximately £6,000. She will need to provide the list of contents if not already 
provided to the insurer for it to consider. Lloyds will need to make an offer of settlement in 
line with my direction. 
Lloyds has not responded.I am therefore satisfied that my provisional decision represents an outcome thats fair and 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
I direct Society of Lloyds to do the following:
Accept the escape of water claim under the policy, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy
Review the contents that Miss B has provided as being damaged by the escape of 
water and provide a settlement for these items, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy
Cover any trace and access works which Miss B has paid for on evidence of 
payment from Miss B. Add 8% a year simple interest* from when Miss B paid until 
date of payment, or include these works within the claim settlement if Miss B hasnt 
paid for them
Increase the compensation to Miss B to a total of £1,000. Lloyds must pay this within 
28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss B accepts my final decision. If it pays 
later than this, it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman