DRN-2463279
The complaint
Miss Bs complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies sold to her by    
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Miss B has complained to Lloyds about a number of PPI policies she was sold. This decision 
only deals with the PPI policies sold to her in October 2002 and October 2003 with loan 
accounts ending 9726 and 8685.
What happened
In October 2002 Miss B took out a loan for £1,100.00 with Lloyds. At the same time she was 
sold a PPI policy. The premium for the PPI policy was £143.11 and it was added to the loan 
so itd attract interest. This increased the total loan to £1,243.11 which was to be repaid over 
24 months. The account number for this loan ended 9276.
In October 2003 Miss B took out a second loan, part of which was used to repay loan ending 
9276. When loan 9276 was repaid early the PPI policy was cancelled and the insurer 
wouldve rebated some of the PPI premium that had been paid upfront. This partial rebate 
wouldve been used to reduce the balance of the loan before it was repaid.
The account number for the new loan ended 8685. The new loan was for £2,200.00. At the 
same time Miss B was sold a PPI policy to cover the new loan. The premium for the PPI 
policy was £257.04 and it was also added to the loan so it attracted interest. This increased 
the total loan to £2,457.04 which was to be repaid over 16 months.
When loan 8685 was repaid early in June 2004 the PPI policy was cancelled and the insurer 
would have rebated some of the PPI premium that had been paid upfront. This partial rebate 
would have been used to reduce the balance of the loan before it was repaid.
Miss B complained to Lloyds about the way the PPI policies had been sold to her. Lloyds 
wrote to her in January 2020 and said it accepted that policies paid for with a single premium 
which attracted interest were not suitable for her. 
But Lloyds thought Miss B still had a need for PPI cover. So it thought PPI policies wouldve 
been appropriate for her if they were flexible and didnt attract interest. So it offered to pay 
back the difference between what Miss B paid for the loans and the PPI with the upfront 
premiums and what she wouldve paid if shed been sold PPI policies where the premium 
was paid for monthly. This is because monthly premium policies wouldnt attract interest and 
could be cancelled at any time without Miss B losing out.
Miss B wasnt happy with the offer and asked us to step in. She thought Lloyds should 
refund everything extra she paid because of the PPI policies. An adjudicator from this 
service looked at the complaint and thought Lloyds offer was fair.
Miss B doesnt agree. She says she wouldnt have bought any PPI policies, however it was 
paid for. Miss B thinks Lloyds should make a full refund with no deduction for a monthly 
premium policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs complaint. 
alternative redress
Lloyds has upheld Miss Bs complaint that the policies were mis-sold. But when it calculated 
its offer it included a deduction to cover the cost of alternative regular premium policies. 
This approach is often called alternative redress. In the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) rules it allows businesses to offer alternative redress, but only in certain 
circumstances. These are where:
the business recommended an inflexible single premium policy without taking into 
account that the consumer might want to repay or refinance the loan early, 
and/or:
it didnt tell the consumer that the policy was inflexible; or
it didnt tell the consumer that the PPI premium would be added to the loan, that it 
would attract interest and what that interest would be; or
it didnt tell the consumer that the term of the policy was shorter than the term of the 
loan, where applicable; and
there were no other failings.
Ive looked at the circumstances surrounding the sale of the policy to see if its fair for Lloyds 
to compensate Miss B in this way.
Lloyds didnt make it clear to Miss B that the PPI premiums would attract interest. And it 
recommended she buy policies that were inflexible. And these are two of the failings listed 
above.
But even though Lloyds has agreed to uphold the complaint on this basis, I still need to think 
more widely about Miss Bs complaint. This is because I need to be sure that there are no 
other grounds to uphold the complaint. And I need to think about whether Lloyds offer is fair 
taking all of the circumstances into account.
was Miss B told the policies were optional?
The policies were sold during  face-to-face meetings in a branch. I cant be certain what was 
said during the meetings. But Ive seen the paperwork completed at the time. I can see that 
on the loan agreements the PPI is described as optional. And there is the option to tick a 
yes or a no box to take out the PPI. On the forms the yes box has been marked with an 
X, and Miss B has signed the forms directly below this. I can see the X has been printed 
in the box. But as the sales took place in meetings I think its likely the adviser completed the 
forms on a computer while discussing the loan applications with Miss B. I also think the form wouldve then been printed off for Miss B to check and sign. So on balance I think the PPI 
policies were most likely presented as optional which Miss B chose to buy.
did the policies give Miss B suitable cover?
Lloyds told us it recommended the policies to Miss B. So it needed to take steps to make 
sure the cover was suitable for her needs. Ive taken into account the policy benefits and 
Miss Bs circumstances at the time of the sale. And having done so, I think the cover was 
suitable for her needs.
I say this because:
Miss B was employed and working when the policies were sold to her so she wouldve 
been eligible for the cover.
Ive not seen anything to make me think Miss B wouldve been affected by any of the 
limitations or exclusions of the policies, like those around pre-existing medical conditions.
Miss B changed employers between the sale of the two policies. But she has told us that 
she would only have received statutory sick pay from both of her employers. But the 
PPI policies sold to her by Lloyds wouldve paid the monthly loan repayments until      
Miss B was able to return to work or until the loans were repaid. So I think Miss B 
wouldve found the policys benefits useful if she wasnt able to work.
The policies would also have paid the monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months if     
Miss B became unemployed. And it wouldve repaid the loans in full if she died. 
Miss B hasnt told us about any other resources she could rely on such as savings or 
other insurance policies.
Taking everything into account I think the PPI cover was most likely to have been suitable 
given Miss Bs circumstances in 2002 and 2003. 
is Lloyds offer fair?
Having thought about the way the policies were sold, I think the FCAs guidance allows 
Lloyds to make an offer of alternative redress. In other words the only errors I can find with 
the way the policies were sold are that Lloyds recommended  inflexible policies, where       
Miss B may have needed flexibility. And Lloyds didnt make it clear to Miss B that they would 
attract interest. But Ive also thought about whether overall its fair for Lloyds to factor in the 
cost of a monthly premium PPI policy when working out the compensation.Having done so I think Lloyds offer is fair in this case. I say this because the aim of the 
compensation is to put Miss B in the position shed be in if things had been done correctly.         
I think Miss B most likely had a need to protect her monthly loan repayments. And taking this 
into account I think its likely she wouldve bought monthly premium policies if Lloyds had 
made them available.
summary
Lloyds has accepted it mis-sold the policies to Miss B. The only errors Ive found are that 
Lloyds recommended inflexible policies paid for with single premiums and didnt make it 
clear they would attract interest. So I think its fair for Lloyds to offer alternative redress and 
deduct the cost of regular premium policies from the compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I find that Lloyds Bank PLC acted fairly when it deducted the 
cost of regular premium policies when calculating the compensation due to Miss B for the 
mis-sale of the PPI policies on loan accounts ending 8685 and 9276.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman