DRN-2882950
The complaint
Mr S complains Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (trading as Hitachi Personal Finance) gave him an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr S took out a £2,500 loan in early 2018 repayable over two years  with monthly 
repayments of approximately £150. He repaid the loan in full, but says he had to borrow from 
elsewhere in order to do so.
In May 2020 Mr S complained that the loan hed taken out was unaffordable.
Hitachi Personal Finance looked into Mr Ss complaint and said it didnt agree the loan was 
unaffordable given the credit checks it had done. Mr S was unhappy with Hitachi Personal 
Finances response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and, having asked additional 
information about his finances and circumstances at the time, said that they didnt think 
Hitachi Personal Finance had lent irresponsibly. Based on Mr Ss bank statements in the 
three months leading up to the loan, for example, our investigator thought Mr S had enough 
disposable income to pay and sustain the loan.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators conclusions and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. So, Ive considered his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was retired when he took out this loan and that he had problems during the loan 
because he wanted to make loan repayments every 28 days to coincide with when he 
received his pension. His loan repayments were, however, meant to be monthly. So, when 
he made repayments every 28 days, Hitachi Personal Finance thought he was sometimes in 
arrears because it was treating the payments he was making  to coincide with his pension  
as early repayments.
Mr S spoke to Hitachi Personal Finance about wanting to make repayments every 28 days 
several times. He said the repayments werent unaffordable and that he wasnt in financial 
difficulties when he did so.
I agree with our investigator that Hitachi Personal Finances checks werent good enough. 
However, I also agree that had it done more detailed checks, it would have had no reason to 
think the lending was likely to have been unsustainable and, in turn, unaffordable.
Given everything Ive just said, I dont think it would be right to uphold this complaint as I 
dont think the business has treated Mr S unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman