DRN-3967292
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2 have complained about their let property insurer Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) in relation to a claim they made when their property was 
damaged by a water leak in 2018.
Mr P2 mostly dealt with RSA and its loss adjuster. So the body of my decision, in the main, 
will refer only to him.
What happened
A leak was found in March 2018. Mr P2 made a claim to RSA and it appointed a loss 
adjuster, who, in a matter of days, visited the property to assess the damage. Following the 
visit the adjuster emailed Mr P2, asking for a copy of the tenancy agreement and, noting that 
Mr P2 wanted to submit quotes for the repair, asking for a copy of the same. 
In May 2018 a loss assessor contacted RSAs adjuster. He said hed been appointed to 
handle the claim on behalf of the policyholders and, in June 2018 a quote for initial works 
was submitted. RSA then appointed a drying specialist which, due to diary clashes over the 
holiday months, wasnt able to attend the property until 31 August 2018. Extensive stripping 
out of the property was recommended. Quotes for that were not received from the loss 
assessor until April 2019. RSA agreed the quote in the sum of £56,715.00 (plus VAT) and 
Mr P2 began to arrange a start date for that work  strip-out, drying and some reinstatement, 
to be done. The VAT amount for this quote was later paid by RSA.
That work completed on 9 August 2019. But it had been agreed by RSA that the bath suite 
might need replacing  the cost for which was not part of the agreed quote. An estimate for 
the suite of £779.95 had been sent to RSA in June 2019  but no payment was made. In 
October 2019 a revised quote, dated 15 August 2019, with a request for immediate 
payment, for the bathroom was provided. This was for the sum of £2,352.78 (inc VAT). The 
loss adjuster felt it equated to betterment but said a contribution towards it, as an uplift of the 
original estimate price, of £1,564.00 could be made. RSA later, in December 2020, as part of 
a bulk payment, paid £779.95 in settlement for the bath suite. 
Mr P2 also reported that the tenants hadnt been able to move back to the property until 
2020. RSA had paid the maximum on the policy for lost rent. And the policy covered the cost 
of alternative accommodation for the tenants too  so RSA paid for that as well, until the end 
of August 2019. RSA felt it shouldnt have to pay any more as it had confirmed work had 
been completed in August 2019. RSA felt the only outstanding work, at that time, was 
carpeting  and it didnt think that reasonably made the property uninhabitable. Mr P2 
argued that RSA had caused delays which had unreasonably prolonged the claim and 
resulted in their financial losses. Mr P2, along with Mr and Mrs P1, complained to us in 2022 
and in February 2022 explained theyd had to pay £10,000 to the hotel the tenants had 
stayed at to settle an outstanding bill. They said they felt RSA should pay their loss 
assessors fees too.
RSA, in its final response issued in December 2021, had refused to pay any more rent or 
accommodation costs, and it said the settlement for the bathroom could not be increased. 
But it accepted that its loss adjuster had not been as pro-active as it should have been at 
times, which had added to delays caused by the loss assessor. It said it wouldnt reimburse 
the loss assessors fee but would pay £750 compensation for the upset caused by its own 
delays in handling the claim.
When our Investigator considered the complaint, she felt it should be upheld. She said RSA 
should pay some of the loss assessors fees (for a set period), that an extra payment for lost 
rent until the property was habitable in August 2019 should be paid. And that if the 
policyholders could show that the bathroom cost more to reinstate than the £779.95 paid, 
RSA should meet those costs. All plus interest.
RSA said it couldnt agree to pay the loss assessors fee. It said loss of rent and alternative 
accommodation had been paid until August 2019  so it didnt agree anything more should 
be paid. Regarding the bathroom it said the loss assessor had agreed to the payment of 
£779.95 in settlement of this item. But it also said that, to date, no evidence had been 
presented to it of any increased cost for the bathroom (beyond the £779.95).
Mr P2 said theyd had to appoint a loss assessor two months into the claim because RSA 
had done nothing. He said it wasnt fair to say the property was habitable in August 2019  
they received no payment for the bathroom and costs for carpeting etc until 2020. He 
pointed out theyd had an increased offer from RSA for the bathroom  but which it had 
never paid. And this offer had been made with RSA having seen their evidence of the 
increased cost.
The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt it should be 
upheld  but on different grounds to those set out by our Investigator. I felt further loss of 
rent should be paid by RSA (to August 2019) but wasnt minded to make it pay any of their 
loss assessors fees, or for accommodation costs/losses beyond August 2019. I felt a further 
payment, plus interest for the bathroom suite should be paid too  but not to the value the 
complainants were asking for. To explain my views on the complaint and what RSA should 
do to put things right, I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were:
Loss assessor fees
I know Mr P2 has explained that they appointed the assessor because RSA had done 
nothing in the first two months of the claim. And I think its fair to say that RSA did little in that 
first two-month period  it could have done more. But, in balance of that view, I have to bear 
in mind that RSAs loss adjuster, following the visit in March 2018, did email Mr P2, 
confirming that their quotes for reinstatements were awaited. Other than the tenancy 
agreement for the property being provided, no documents were presented to the adjuster 
until the loss assessor became involved in May 2018. I think the adjuster should have 
chased the quotes in that time  the matter shouldnt have been left in abeyance. But as 
Mr P2 knew the adjuster was waiting for quotes to be presented, I dont think its fair to say 
they had to appoint a loss assessor due to no action by the adjuster. As such I cant fairly 
and reasonably make RSA reimburse any of the assessors fees.Habitability
I think Mr P2 has a point about habitability  and it is one that RSA has so far overlooked. 
The adjuster wanted to see confirmation that work at the property had been completed. And 
that was presented by the loss assessor. The completion confirmation confirmed that work 
as per the quote had been completed on 9 August 2019. But what the adjuster missed was 
that the quote was for strip-out and some reinstatement work. It did not include replacing 
the bathroom suite. Which RSA had agreed to cover the cost of but hadnt paid. And a 
property without a working bathroom is not habitable. I note that there was a delay in the 
adjuster getting the completion confirmation from the loss assessor which I also think was 
partly responsible for cultivating the situation where a misunderstanding like this was able to 
arise. But the adjuster should have been able, as I have been, to check what work was 
completed in August 2019 and, thereby, determine what remained outstanding. However, 
I have to bear in mind that a policyholder, even when left in a difficult and unsatisfactory 
position as a result of failures by their insurer, has to mitigate their situation. Its in light of all 
of that that Ive reached my provisional decision on the loss of rent and alternative 
accommodation issues.
Loss of rent and alternative accommodation
In August 2019 the property, barring the bathroom suite, carpets and curtains, had been 
stripped, dried and reinstated. The only outstanding issue remaining which made the 
property uninhabitable was the absence of the bathroom suite. Fitting a bathroom suite 
would take a couple of weeks at most and the cost claimed for this here is £2,352.78. With 
the cost for the tenants to stay in the hotel for a month being £3,410.00. 
As of August 2019, RSA had only paid for loss of rent and alternative accommodation 
through to March 2019. So knowing that costs were outstanding in that respect, that costs 
would continue to mount if the family stayed in the hotel, and that the property could be 
made habitable again for less than the cost of even one months further stay in the hotel, 
I think progressing with the bathroom reinstatement would have been the prudent and 
reasonable thing for Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2 to have done. Whilst I do think RSAs loss 
adjuster, even at this time, was not managing things too well, it seems their loss assessor 
wasnt either  taking months to update the adjuster with the work completion and then to 
raise concerns about outstanding costs. Its difficult for a policyholder in that type of situation, 
but given the sums involved and the relative ease with which potential costs could have 
been avoided, I cant reasonably find RSA is liable for any lost rent or accommodation costs 
beyond August 2019.
However, only the accommodation costs were paid through August 2019. The payment for 
lost rent only extended to the end of March 2019. That was because that was the limit on the 
policy for this  twelve months of cover. But I do think that the claim, over its course, was 
delayed by RSAs loss adjuster by at least five months  there were times, such as at the 
outset, when it just wasnt progressed or furthered as it should have been. And that is even 
bearing in mind that sometimes the adjuster was waiting on detail being provided by the 
assessor. RSA, as it has acknowledged, could and should have done more. I note it has 
paid compensation  but that covers distress and inconvenience only. I think Mr and Mrs P1 
and Mr P2 had a financial loss because of those delays as well  rent lost between April and 
August 2019 inclusive. RSAs file shows that the rent was £1,950, payable on the first of 
each month. So Im going to require RSA to pay them £9,750, with interest* on each of the 
five sums of £1,950 that make up this total. Interest should be applied on the first sum from 
1 April 2019, on the second from 1 May, and so on to the last amount on 1 August, all until 
settlement is made. Im also going to require RSA to make a further interest award. RSA knew it had only paid 
for accommodation costs through to the end of March 2019. And, at that time, it knew the 
works hadnt started. It was 8 April 2019 when it was confirmed that Mr P2 was looking to 
arrange a start date  with extensive striping, drying and reinstatement work being required. 
But RSA did nothing to arrange or consider any further accommodation payment. It should 
have done and, in the circumstances, I think it should have paid a sum upfront to cover a 
further reasonable period of accommodation. But it didnt do that, instead it left its 
policyholders to struggle and manage costs by themselves. It was only in December 2020 
that a payment of £16,830 for accommodation costs for April 2019  August 2019 was paid. 
Im going to require RSA to pay interest* on that sum from 8 April 2019 until payment was 
made for that period, which I believe was sometime in December 2020. 
Bathroom suite
I know RSA thinks that the settlement for this shouldnt be reviewed because the loss 
assessor agreed to the sum paid. But I dont think that is quite right, or fair. The assessor, in 
an email, asked RSA to pay the sum offered  a bulk payment (for which the bath suite was 
only a small part). When the adjuster asked if this was accepted in full and final settlement 
the assessor did not reply in writing. I think, from what RSA has said, there was a call 
between the adjuster and assessor, but no notes of it have been provided. The adjuster then 
reported that the assessor agreed with its offer, but Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2 did not. RSA 
made the payment anyway. So I think RSA knew the matter was to be contested and that its 
policyholder had not accepted payment on a full and final basis.
The payment RSA made for the bath suite though was, somewhat inexplicably, for the 
original claim amount put forward to it in June 2019. Even though its loss adjuster, 
recommending the 2020 payment, had agreed to pay £1,564.00 for the suite instead of 
£779.95. Mr P2 rightly queried the settlement for that reason at least. But again the adjuster 
didnt seem to notice or, if they did, understand that concern. 
Mr P2s other concern about the bathroom suite though is that even an offer of £1,564.00 is 
insufficient. Hes said that because payment against the estimate of £779.95 wasnt made in 
a timely manner, they had to shop elsewhere which caused an increase in costs. RSAs loss 
adjusters view of the new quote was that it equated to betterment. Mr P2 thinks that 
argument is flawed  not least because the adjuster stating that view was not the same 
adjuster as was involved at the outset  there had been multiple changes in personnel 
during the course of the claim. So Ive looked at the two quotes  the second of which Im 
satisfied RSA has seen and can reasonably be considered as an invoice as it includes a 
request for immediate payment. 
I think RSA has a point. RSA agreed it would be liable for the cost of replacing the bathroom 
suite  and that is what the sum of £779.95 reflects  a bath, basin and toilet. And that was 
agreed to because it was likely the suite would be damaged during strip-out (with all the tiles 
etc needing removing). But the second quote/invoice includes things like a radiator  that 
isnt something which is likely to be damaged during strip-out, or because of the leak. And it 
isnt something for which RSA had agreed to pay. So I do think the invoice reflects an 
element of betterment against what had been agreed to. Having considered the costs 
detailed, I think that RSAs offer to pay £1,564.00 for the bathroom is fair and reasonable.
As I said RSA, so far, hasnt made good on its offer to pay the uplifted sum. And it only paid 
the sum of £779.95 a year and a half after the proof for that cost was put forward and a 
reasonable request for its payment was made. So Im going to require RSA to pay an 
amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £779.95 from 12 June 2019, until the bulk 
payment, which included this sum, was paid in December 2020. And Im also going to 
require RSA to pay £784.05 (£1,564 minus £779.95), plus interest* applied from 15 August 2019  the date immediate payment of £2,352.78 was required  until settlement 
is made.
Compensation
RSA has paid £750 compensation. And this has clearly been a prolonged claim. I think that if 
RSA had been responsible for its entire delay, I might likely find it fair and reasonable to 
require it to pay more than that in compensation. But I dont think I can fairly and reasonably 
say it is responsible for everything that went wrong here. Not least as it was not the only 
professional involved in managing the claim. But also, for example, whilst it could have 
chased more in the first two months, it wasnt entirely unreasonable for it to expect the 
policyholders to present the quotes theyd said they wanted to provide. So I dont intend to 
make RSA pay more compensation for distress and inconvenience.
RSA said it had nothing further to add, that it accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2 explained how incredibly upset theyd been by my findings  that 
they will have a significant and devastating impact if they remain in my final decision. They 
provided comment and evidence in reply to my findings.
Regarding the loss assessors fee, they said they were disappointed that my view differed to 
that of our Investigator. And prior to them appointing their loss assessor, they had chased 
RSA without response on the issue of rent cover. It wasnt reasonable for RSA to have left 
them without answer. They said it is clear that RSA failed them and unclear why I should 
think they can find the sum of their loss assessors fees from other settlements paid by RSA, 
which were meant to cover the cost of other things.
They said they did send a quote for drying equipment to RSAs loss adjuster on 
27 April 2018. A response on this was chased on 10 May 2018 and by 22 May 2018 the 
property had begun to suffer with damp and mould. It was in light of that lack of response 
that they decided to appoint a loss assessor. And it was still a number of months before 
cover was approved or any payment was made.
Requiring RSA to pay a further five months lost rent, they said, only covers that financial 
loss. It does not provide compensation for the funds not having been provided when they 
should have been. And similarly, they point out, RSA delayed paying for the alternative 
accommodation. They feel I seem to be saying that they did not need to be indemnified and 
should have infinite resources available to them to mitigate.
They said it is not fair to expect them to mitigate losses when RSAs failures were otherwise 
destroying them financially. RSA had substantially underpaid them for lost rent and 
alternative accommodation which, amongst other outgoings, they said, had drained their 
cash flow. They said they feel that my view in this respect is not balanced, is factually 
incorrect and is one-sided in favour of RSA. They referenced case law. They explained this 
shows that RSA had a duty to indemnify them before they incurred expenses. And that given 
RSAs habits in dealing with their claim, they had no belief RSA would indemnify them. They 
cannot be expected to have mitigated their loss.
In respect of the bathroom they said that the quote in August 2019 was like-for-like and it just 
showed necessary plumbing fixings in addition to the bathroom suite. And they only supplied 
this because RSA had insisted on seeing a formal quote, having rejected their evidence of 
an on-line order basket (the estimate for £779.95). The on-line order basket did not include 
plumbing fixings, such as valves and traps, which were all in the August 2019 quote and 
were all necessary for the suite to function. Regarding the mirror and towel rail within the quote  these were damaged whilst RSA delayed the claim at the outset. They said it is not 
unreasonable to replace these items. 
They concluded that they have been let down by RSA. They said that in light of its failures 
my decision must be equitable, fair and just.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that my findings were upsetting for Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2. That is 
regrettable. And I do understand that in not awarding them certain costs, their financial 
position will be significantly and severely affected. But I have to assess their complaint from 
an impartial position and I can only make awards against RSA to put right the reasonable 
impact of its failures. Unfortunately that may mean that I do not see things the way they do, 
and that there is a disparity in my findings  about what happened, what RSA did wrong 
and/or what it should do to make up for that  from what they expect me to determine. 
I know that there had been some contact with the loss adjuster following his visit on 
15 March 2018. And I did say provisionally that the loss adjuster should have done more at 
that time, acted more pro-actively to try and move the claim along. And I appreciate it was 
frustrating for the complainants to not get answers from the adjuster to the emails they sent. 
I appreciate that they felt the way to deal with that was to appoint a loss assessor. But that 
appointment came at a cost which they knew was not covered by their policy. And there was 
no agreement from RSA to cover such a cost. Im also mindful that the detail regarding the 
reinstatement claim, sent to the adjuster at the end of April 2018, which was chased in early 
May, was not a full quote for the drying works. It was only an estimate for what drying 
equipment would be needed and at what cost. The full quote for drying and stripping, dated 
17 May 2018, was only presented by the loss assessor when it was appointed. But it was 
this detail that the adjuster had said he was waiting to see to progress the claim. So prior to 
the assessor being instructed, RSA had not done what it shouldve done  but neither had 
Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2 done what RSA was expecting them to do. In the circumstances 
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to make RSA cover the cost of the loss 
assessors fees.
I appreciate that not having the loss of rent payment before has caused some difficulties. To 
compensate for the money being missing for so long, I have awarded interest. I know that 
some upset would have been caused by the money not being paid either, and I did consider 
in my provisional decision what upset RSA had caused due to its delays. I explained that 
RSA had paid £750 compensation and, having considered everything, I did not think it would 
be fair or reasonable for me to make it pay anything more. 
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that RSA delayed making payments and that it 
should have paid some things earlier  upfront even, where it knew there would likely be a 
cost incurred over the coming months. I understand that the fact that RSA did not do this left 
Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2 in an extremely difficult and pressured position. I also understand 
that by August 2019 theyd lost faith in RSA and did not believe it would properly indemnify 
them for the bathroom reinstatement costs. Ive also considered the case law detail theyve 
provided. However, I still think they could reasonably have done something differently to 
mitigate the difficult and, at that time, currently potentially very serious situation RSA had put 
them in. RSA was wrong for putting them in that situation and causing them to have to make 
really difficult choices about how to move things on. But that doesnt mean I can just 
reasonably find it liable for all the costs that resulted from the choice Mr and Mrs P1 and 
Mr P2 made.I have to think about what could reasonably have been done. In August 2019 Mr and Mrs P1 
and Mr P2 knew that accommodation and loss of rent costs since March 2019 were 
outstanding. And that RSA had refused to pay more lost rent and that no offer had been 
made to pay further accommodation costs (although the latter were later paid by RSA 
through August 2019). But they also knew that RSA had said it would cover the cost of a 
replacement bathroom suite. Admittedly RSA had challenged the on-line order basket 
presented to evidence that cost, and asked to see another quote. So the costs werent 
determined or agreed. But Im satisfied that liability for RSA to indemnify its policyholders for 
the bath suite had been agreed. 
As I noted provisionally, the further quote presented by the policyholders to replace the bath 
suite was £2,352.78. And payment of that, which would have allowed for the bathroom to be 
reinstated, would have made the property habitable such that the tenants could have 
returned within a couple of weeks. I accept that is not an insubstantial amount of money. 
And that finding that sum when there were plenty of other financial pressures accruing, many 
of which were on account of RSAs failures, would have been incredibly difficult. But the 
monthly net loss for rent and accommodation costs to the policyholders was £5,360. And 
they had no offer from RSA, at that time, to cover any outstanding or on-going losses in that 
respect. But they did have an agreement that RSA would pay something for replacing the 
bath suite. And reinstating the bathroom could bring to an end the other net losses that were 
accruing and would continue to accrue unless the house was made habitable. 
The case law referenced looks at whether a policyholder should act when indemnity hasnt 
been agreed. It includes the following Even a profitable business will reasonably defer a 
decision whether or not to reinstate until it knows whether the funds will come from insurers. 
So the case law does show reasonableness is at the heart of any decision. And, as I said 
above, RSA had agreed to indemnify Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2 for the bathroom suite  it 
was only the cash sum for which that had not been agreed. Im sorry for the upset my view 
on this will bring to the complainants, but I dont think they made a reasonable choice in the 
circumstances. And I cant fairly make RSA liable for the consequences of their 
unreasonable choice.
I appreciate that certain fixings will be needed to fit a bathroom suite  but its far from clear 
what parts, other than the suite itself, would have needed replacing here. I think it is possible 
that the mirror and radiator may have been damaged during 2018. But the mirror and 
radiator werent claimed for from RSA, or raised with it as something that would need 
replacing. Rather they just appeared as a cost in the quote that was presented to evidence 
the cost for the agreed bathroom suite replacement. Overall I think RSA should have agreed 
the sum of £779.95 in June 2019 when it was presented. And I accept that it was at its 
request that the August 2019 quote in question was sourced. But I also accept that RSA had 
reasonable concerns about the cost of this quote and Ive found it does include items that 
were not part of the agreement which had been made  to pay for a replacement bath suite, 
which the quote was presented to evidence the cost of. Im satisfied that RSAs offer to pay a 
total of £1,564 for replacing the bath suite was, in all the circumstances here, fair and 
reasonable. It should have made good on that offer. Because it did not and because it 
delayed in even paying the sum of £779.95, it will have to pay interest*.
Putting things right
I require RSA to pay Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2:
£9,750 as compensation for rent lost. Plus interest* on each of the five sums of £1,950 
that make up that total, applied on the first of those from 1 April 2019 and until settlement 
is made, and on the second from 1 May 2019 until settlement is made, and so on.An amount equivalent to interest* applied to the sum of £16,830 from 8 April 2019 until 
settlement of that sum was made.
£784.05, as the outstanding sum for the bathroom suite, plus interest* applied from 
15 August 2019 until settlement is made.
An amount equivalent to interest* applied to the sum of £779.95 from 12 June 2019 until 
settlement of that sum was made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require RSA to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr and Mrs P1 and Mr P2 a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P1, 
and Mr P2 to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman