DRN-2174447
The complaint
Mr O is complaining about the handling of his motor insurance claim by CIS General 
Insurance Limited (CIS) after the catalytic converter was stolen from his car.
What happened
Mr Os catalytic converter was stolen in August 2019. CIS agreed that it was covered under 
his policy and arranged to take the car away and replace the catalytic converter. Mr O told 
CIS he wanted a manufacturer branded catalytic converter because any other one would 
void the warranty on his car. CIS said this was fine and sent a text message confirming it.
Under Mr Os policy, he was entitled to a courtesy car. He was given a petrol car but wasnt 
happy about this as it cost him more to run than his own hybrid vehicle. He complained to 
CIS about how much it was costing. CIS told Mr O his policy didnt entitle him to a like-for-
like courtesy car. They offered him some alternatives, but Mr O chose to keep the courtesy 
car he had.
Mr Os car was returned to him nine weeks after it was collected  fitted with a non-
manufacturer catalytic converter. He complained to CIS. They explained that there was a 
very long wait for manufacturer branded catalytic converters and said Mr Os policy allowed 
them to fit non-manufacturer parts. 
Mr O remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us. In summary, his complaint 
points were:
The non-manufacturer catalytic converter fitted to his car voids his warranty.
The courtesy car he was given wasnt like-for-like on fuel consumption.
It took nine weeks to return his car  which he thinks was too long.
Our investigator looked at Mr Os complaint. She said CIS were within their rights to fit a 
non-manufacturer catalytic converter, but she thought they should have done more to 
manage Mr Os expectations. She thought CIS should pay Mr O £100 to compensate him for 
this. She said Mr O wasnt entitled to a like-for-like courtesy car under his policy. And she 
said the length of time taken to repair Mr Os car was out of CISs control and theyd kept 
Mr O informed. 
CIS offered to pay Mr O the suggested compensation, but Mr O didnt accept it. He said he 
would only accept a manufacturer branded catalytic converter as a resolution to this 
complaint. Because he couldnt resolve this with our investigator the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and will be asking CIS to pay Mr O the £100 
they offered as compensation for the poor communication in this matter. Ill explain why, 
looking in turn at each of Mr Os complaint points.
The catalytic converter
Im satisfied Mr Os policy allowed CIS to fit a non-manufacturer catalytic converter to Mr Os 
car. The policy wording says: The insurer may use warranted replacement parts or recycled 
parts which are not supplied by the manufacturer of the car but will be of a similar standard. 
I can see the replacement catalytic converter has been guaranteed for three years so Im 
happy CIS have acted in line with the policy terms and conditions.
However, CIS knew how important it was to Mr O that he had a manufacturer branded 
catalytic converter. Hed told them, and theyd given him a written statement that they would 
fit one. I cant see that CIS told Mr O that theyd be fitting a non-branded part. And Mr O 
believed that a non-branded part would void the warranty on his car. So I can understand 
why he was so unhappy when he got his car back and found CIS hadnt done what theyd 
said they would.
But I need to balance this with the fact that non-manufacturer part wouldnt have voided Mr 
Os warranty completely. Instead, if Mr O had a claim which was caused by the non-
manufacturer part then that claim wouldnt be covered. All other claims would be considered 
in the usual way under the terms of the warranty. As Ive mentioned, the replacement 
catalytic converter has been guaranteed for three years. By the time this has expired, the 
warranty on Mr Os car will have expired..
Taking everything into account, CIS should have done more to explain the situation to Mr O. 
I understand that Mr O feels strongly about this and that it would have caused him some 
distress and inconvenience. To recognise this, I think CIS should pay Mr O compensation of 
£100. 
The courtesy car
I cant see that Mr O was told that hed have a courtesy car with comparable fuel economy. 
His policy states: 
If the provision of a courtesy car is available, the insurer's recommended repairers will 
not be obliged to arrange a replacement vehicle any larger than a small hatchback, 
typically with a 1 litre engine capacity. If you wish to upgrade to any other vehicle the cost 
of the upgrade will be your responsibility.
So, although I appreciate Mr Os had to spend more on fuel than he normally would, Im 
satisfied CIS acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Even so, I can see that 
he was offered some alternatives to the first car provided, but that he decided not to change 
vehicles. Im satisfied CIS treated Mr O fairly and reasonably in relation to the courtesy car.
The time taken
I know Mr Os frustrated by how long it took to replace his catalytic converter. I appreciate 
this must have been particularly frustrating when it was costing him more to run the courtesy 
car than his own car. However, the reason for the delay was beyond CISs control  the part 
Mr O has said he preferred  a manufacturer branded part - simply wasnt available. I can 
see that CIS explained on several occasions that the parts were on back order and they 
didnt know when theyd be available. So, Im satisfied CIS werent responsible for the time taken but also that they kept Mr O 
informed about the delays. 
Finally, I note that Mr O has mentioned to our investigator that hes had problems with the 
catalytic converter. As explained, he should raise this with CIS under the warranty given for 
the part and work.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, I think CIS should have told Mr O that theyd be fitting a non-
manufacturer catalytic converter to his car and that they should pay Mr O £100 
compensation for the upset this caused. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Os complaint in relation to the wrong information given to him about the 
catalytic converter. CIS General Insurance Limited need to pay £100 to Mr O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman