DRN-1872125
The complaint
Mr L trading as company C has complained that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited (Jelf) 
mis-sold him his self-employed tradesman policy which he had since 2009.
The complaint was brought to us by Mr Ls wife, Mrs L, but for ease I will refer to her 
comments as being Mr Ls.
What happened
Mr L took out a tradesman policy for his business through Jelf, an insurance broker, in 2009. 
The policy was with the same insurer until 2019. Mr L said that in 2019 he got a call from Jelf 
asking him if his business had anything to do with repairing computers. When he said it 
didnt, Jelf said that his current insurer didnt want to carry on insuring him and 
recommended a policy with another insurer. 
Mr L complained to Jelf because he thought the original policy was mis-sold to him. He said 
he was concerned that the policy he had for all those years wouldnt have covered him for 
his type of work and specifically that it wouldnt have covered him if a client made a loss of 
earnings claim against him in the event that he damaged their machinery. He said hed been 
given no good reason as to why his existing insurer would no longer cover him and that he 
had explained to Jelf in the past the type of machinery he was working on and referred it to a 
website so it could check this for itself. 
Mr L said that Jelf had categorised his type of business as office equipment service and 
repair on his policy documents and that this was the description it picked by itself- it wasnt 
the description hed provided. It later transpired that the insurer didnt think this was an 
accurate description for the type of work Mr L was doing. 
Mr L also complained that Jelf had given him confusing information about his policy in 
previous years. He said in 2018 Jelf told him that his policy would cover him if a client made 
a loss of earnings claim against him but later said it had made a mistake. He said he had 
also been given confusing information about his legal expenses cover on other occasions. 
Jelf responded to Mr L and said though it had given him incorrect information about a 
potential loss of earnings claims against him, if he had made a claim it would have referred 
him to the insurer for a definitive response. But, it said, in terms of the legal expenses cover 
it had referred him to his insurer (which was a different insurer to his tradesman policy one)  
for further information and that this was the right thing to do. 
Jelf said in 2019 it called to confirm the type of work Mr L undertakes and when it contacted 
the insurer to confirm this, the insurer said it would no longer cover him. Jelf said the insurer 
didnt chose to avoid the policy from inception i.e. as if it never existed. It added that it didnt 
think the business description it had provided to the insurer was inaccurate and that the 
insurer never asked about this- it was Jelf that decided to check. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Jelfs response and complained to us. He said that he thought the 
best resolution would be for all his premiums, since 2009, to be refunded as he was never 
properly covered through his previous insurer. 
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Jelf provided 
the insurer with the correct business description, bearing in mind the insurer said it wasnt 
prepared to cover Mr L for his type of work. As it was Jelf that advised Mr L to take the policy 
out, our investigator didnt think it had made sure that it was suitable for him. So he thought 
Jelf should pay Mr Ls premiums back plus 8% interest. 
Jelf didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said at no point did the insurer 
say it was avoiding all the policies and never offered any premium refunds. It also said that 
the insurer never asked for any other information in the ten years that the policy was live and 
that it still didnt think that the business description was inaccurate. It said it decided to get 
this information on its own initiative and it wouldnt be fair to be punished for this. 
Before I issued this decision we asked Jelf to provide us with further information as to what 
other options were available on the online system it was using when it came to selecting the 
type of business Mr L had. We also confirmed that any return of premiums it needs to repay 
would also include administration fees and any tax that Mr L had been charged at the time. 
Jelf responded to say that the business description on the online system it was using was 
free type and that it populated it with servicing and repairing office machines. It said there 
was also a trade field which was a list selection controlled by the insurer. Jelf selected 
office equipment and service repairs in that field. It said this was based on its u
understanding of the type of work Mr L did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it.
Those who sell insurance have a duty to provide their customers with accurate information to 
enable them to make an informed decision. In this case Jelf told us that this was an advised 
sale which means Jelf had a duty to check that the policy it had recommended to Mr L was 
suitable for his needs. 
Mr L said that he told Jelf from the beginning that he worked on large printing machines. 
From what Ive seen, Jelf hasnt denied this. 
From Mr Ls policy and renewal documents it seems that his business was generally 
described as office equipment service and repairers. Jelf said that the business description 
it provided to the original insurer was correct. It told Mr L that the insurer had said to it that it 
thought that Mr L was working on normal office printers which wasnt the case. And that 
when it saw what he was working on it said it wasnt prepared to carry on with the policy 
because it classed it as heavy machinery. Jelf said it took the initiative to get this information 
form Mr L and provided it to the insurer and shouldnt be punished for it. And it also pointed 
out that the insurer never asked for this information and never said it was avoiding all the 
policies.
Our investigator made enquiries with the insurer directly. The insurer said that as Mr L 
repairs large industrial printers this wouldnt fall within the description of office equipment 
repairs and servicing- as declared by Jelf. The insurer said if Mr L had made a claim it wouldve been considered on its individual circumstances. Nevertheless, when considering 
such a claim it wouldnt have expected Mr L to be working on industrial sized printers 
because thats not the business description it was provided with by Jelf.
The insurer also told our investigator that the policy was taken out online by Jelf who entered 
all the information onto the insurers online system. And Jelf has confirmed that the 
business description field was free type and not something the insurer controlled. The 
insurer said there was no reason for the application to be referred to its underwriters and 
therefore no one from the insurer had looked at the policy until 2018. When the matter was 
referred to an underwriter they confirmed there was no cover for Mr Ls type of work. 
I appreciate Jelf says that it got this information itself and shouldnt be punished for it. But if 
Jelf was unsure about the application and the business description it gave to the insurer I 
think this is something that it shouldve sought to check from the outset and not ten years 
later. I dont think the insurer had any way of knowing what Mr Ls type of business was, 
unless Jelf made it clear to it. The insurer said it didnt consider the business description to 
be accurate and I think thats a matter for it to decide- even if Jelf itself think its accurate. 
Jelf said this was based on its understanding of the type of work Mr L did but I think the fact 
that it sought to clarify this in 2019, seemingly unprompted, suggests to me that it had 
doubts as to whether the description was accurate in the first place. 
I also note that Jelf sent the new insurer a link to a website Mr L provided to show the type of 
equipment he is working on before the new insurer agreed to provide cover. I think Jelf 
should have done something similar with the original insurer. 
For these reasons and from what the insurer said I think, on balance, the policy that was 
recommended to Mr L by Jelf wasnt suitable for his needs. This is because, on balance, I 
dont think that the policy would have covered him because the business description Jelf 
provided to the insurer didnt match Mr Ls. And because when the insurer did find out the 
nature of Mr Ls work it said it wasnt prepared to cover that risk. So I think Jelf should pay 
him back all his premiums up to the point when that policy was cancelled. 
After receiving the investigators view Mr L asked him whether we would consider making an 
award for distress and inconvenience. As Mr L is complaining on behalf of his business I 
wouldnt be able to make an award for distress. I also decided not to make an award for 
inconvenience as Jelf sought to take out alternative cover immediately after it realised that 
the previous insurer wasnt prepared to offer any. So I dont think hes been inconvenienced 
to a point where compensation is warranted.
I note Jelf accepts it gave Mr L confusing information about his cover at times but I dont 
think this warrants any compensation, especially as I dont think there was any cover in the 
first place. And in terms of the legal expenses cover I think it was right, at the time, to refer 
Mr L to his legal expenses insurer for further information.  
Putting things right
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited must 
pay Mr L trading as company C all his premiums from 2009 to the date his policy with his 
original insurer was cancelled in 2019. These payments must include any administration 
fees and insurance premium tax. It must also pay simple interest on the amount it pays at a 
rate of 8% per year from the date each payment was made to the date it makes payment.My final decision
For the reasons above, Im upholding this complaint. Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited must 
pay Mr L trading as company C all his premiums from 2009 to the date his policy with his 
original insurer was cancelled in 2019. These payments must include any administration 
fees and insurance premium tax. It must also pay simple interest on the amount it pays at a 
rate of 8% per year from the date each payment was made to the date it makes payment.
If Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L trading as C how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr L trading as C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L trading as 
company C to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman