DRN-1704971
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains on behalf of Mr B that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly lent Mr B a loan 
he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr B had a current account with Barclays. In July 2018 Mr B successfully applied for a loan 
of £8,000, to be repaid over 48 months. 
In September 2018 Mr B applied for an additional loan of £9,800. This was declined by 
Barclays as it said it would need more information about how he was managing the first loan 
before it could make a decision on a further loan.
In November 2018 Mr B applied for a £12,500 which would, in part, pay off his first loan. This 
would be repaid over a longer period  60 months. Barclays approved the application.
In July 2019 Mrs B, Mr Bs mother, made a complaint to Barclays. She said it had been 
irresponsible to lend her son the second loan. She said Mr B had mental health problems 
that meant he would sometimes spend erratically and recklessly. She said this condition had 
worsened recently and the reckless spending could be seen from his current account 
transactions. Further she said this had included some payments to accounts abroad that 
turned out to be a scam. And he no longer had one of his two jobs by November, so his 
income had reduced. 
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had been unaware of Mr Bs mental health 
concerns. It also hadnt been aware he had lost one of his jobs as payments from both jobs 
had been received into his account each month apart from one. Further it said he had been 
keeping up with loan repayments and his disposable income had been sufficient to cover the 
additional amount of around £49 for the new loan. It therefore said it had done appropriate 
checks and the loan seemed affordable at the time.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Barclays response as she said it clearly hadnt done thorough 
checks or it would have identified the erratic spending patterns. She brought the complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. 
He said he though Barclays had carried out proportionate and appropriate checks when 
assessing the affordability of the loan, so didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mrs B disagreed with this assessment so it has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.From looking at the information provided to us by Mrs B I can understand her concerns 
about the suitability of the loan for Mr B. From what she has told us, it seems he was 
struggling to manage his money at the time, was prone to spending sprees beyond his 
means and had recently lost one of his jobs meaning he had reduced income. 
However when reaching a decision on this complaint, I need to consider what Barclays 
would have reasonably been aware of at the time. This includes information provided by 
Mr B and considering the information Barclays looked at when making the decision to 
provide the loan. I will then decide if the checks carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate and if Barclays treated Mr B fairly in the circumstances. 
Barclays has explained that the Mr B has a pre-calculated limit for his loan application. This 
means a real time credit check isnt carried out. Instead checks are carried out such as 
account balances, amount of credit, how accounts are managed and repayment history. 
Considering Mr B has been a current account customer of Barclays for some time and had a 
loan with them already, I think this information would provide a good insight into whether he 
could afford additional lending. It allowed Barclays to assess his income and expenditure 
over a number of years and to see how he has managed credit and repayments. I therefore 
think these checks would be reasonable and proportionate in assessing Mr Bs ability and 
willingness to repay additional credit. 
I have also considered whether Barclays made a fair assessment based on this information. 
I have looked at bank statements from this account in 2018 when the loans were approved. 
Throughout this year he managed his account well. He had a steady income and relatively 
low outgoings. I can see that between July and November there was an increase in Mr Bs 
spending. However although this was higher than before, it doesnt appear excessive. There 
are a couple of times when he went into his overdraft but this was by a small amount and it 
was rectified within days each time. 
Further between July and October Mr B was meeting the repayments to his first loan 
consistently. In November he missed his first payment. However when the application for the 
second loan was considered this information wouldnt have registered. So Barclays would 
have been unable to include this in its assessment. 
Mrs B has said that a number of payments were made through an international transfer 
system which turned out to be to a scam. She says this should have flagged to Barclays that 
something was wrong. Barclays has said that the largest payment, made from Mr Bs 
savings account, did trigger a fraud alert. However Mr B explained it was a transfer to help a 
friend abroad so the transaction was processed. The other payments were significantly 
smaller. And although they may have been out of character, wouldnt be enough for Barclays 
to say that Mr B wouldnt be able to afford an increase in borrowing because of these 
payments.
I have also looked at the information Barclays had about Mr Bs income. Mrs B has said 
Mr B lost one of his jobs in around September, so Barclays should have known his income 
had decreased. From looking at the bank statements, I can see Mr B received payment from 
two jobs each month. These payments arrived in his account towards the end of every 
month. The payments were received each month with the exception of September. But were 
received again in October. So I think it would be fair for Barclays to assume these payments 
were ongoing, unless advised otherwise by Mr B. 
The application was carried out in a branch. So I dont have a recording or a transcript of the 
conversation, to see if Mr B informed Barclays of his change in employment. However in loan applications it is usual that the applicant is asked if their income is likely to change or if 
they have had a change of circumstances. As this is a key factor in decisions about lending. 
Had Mr B informed Barclays that he had lost one of his jobs, this would have had a 
significant impact on his affordability. I therefore think it is more likely that he didnt tell them 
during the application. 
I can also see from Barclays calculations that Mr B had disposable income of between £800 
and around £1,700 a month while receiving the two payments from his jobs. This was based 
on just essential expenditure. Considering the increased payments to cover the new loan 
would only be around £49 extra a month, I can understand why Barclays considered this to 
be affordable based on the information available. 
Therefore Barclays made the assessment based on the assumption that Mr Bs income 
would remain the same. And based on this, it thought the loan was affordable. I think this 
was a fair assessment based on the information available. So I wont ask Barclays to do 
anything differently or in addition.
Finally Mrs B has raised the fact that her son is vulnerable due to his mental health 
condition. She says this should have been apparent to staff members in branch and 
therefore should have had an impact on the lending decision. Barclays has spoken to branch 
staff members. The staff member that completed the application doesnt remember it 
specifically. However staff members are familiar with Mr B as a regular customer. They were 
unaware of his condition. Further, Mr B had not made his condition known to Barclays. So 
although I can completely understand Mrs Bs concerns, I cant say Barclays ought to have 
reasonably been aware. However now it has been made aware of the condition, I would 
expect this to be taken into consideration in future decisions and interactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything 
differently or in addition.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman