DRN-4146916
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc failed to treat them fairly when they applied to 
port their mortgage with additional borrowing.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M applied to port their existing mortgage to a new property with additional 
borrowing. During this process they feel Santander provided them with incorrect and 
conflicting information regarding the total amount it was able to lend. They say Santander 
made them feel like the only prospect of success they had with the application was to reduce 
their current liabilities. This meant repaying a loan they had for their car as well as some 
other short-term debts that they had outstanding.
Mr and Mrs M did what they believed they were asked to do by Santander but even after 
theyd sold their car and repaid the loan for this, Santander was still unable to provide the full 
amount of additional borrowing they required.
Mr and Mrs M were able to purchase the second property they found after reducing their 
budget but needed to take a mortgage with another provider. When they repaid their existing 
mortgage with Santander they had to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) of around 
£11,000. 
They feel Santander has caused them to incur costs they wouldnt have needed to because 
it failed to provide clear advice about their options. They say they sold their car for less than 
its market value for a quick sale and are now paying a higher interest rate on their mortgage 
with a new lender because they delayed applying for this sooner as they spent time trying to 
provide Santander with the information it was asking for. 
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and said that she didnt think Santander 
needed to do anything else. She didnt think Santander had advised Mr and Mrs M to sell 
their car. It provided details to Mr and Mrs M so they could source independent financial 
advice on their best options. But it explained it could not provide advice on whether they 
should or shouldnt repay some of their short-term lending. She felt the ERC had been 
correctly applied when the mortgage was repaid before the end of the product term Mr and 
Mrs M were on. Because of this, she didnt think it was fair to ask Santander to do anything 
else in response to the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the outcome. They arent saying they were told to sell their car 
by Santander but they acted like any other customer would when following the steps 
Santander said would result in them being able to borrow more. So when it was running 
through the things that could have helped them to get the required lending amount, it was 
natural that theyd act on this. This has resulted in them being left out of pocket financially 
and the whole situation resulted in a huge amount of distress and inconvenience. They 
believe that even if Santander has not breached its terms, it has acted in a way that has 
caused foreseeable harm and this could have been avoided.  
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged so the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs M, but Ill explain why I dont think Santander 
need to do anything else.
Mr and Mrs M have highlighted the crux of this complaint is not that they believe Santander 
told them that selling their car would result in their application being successful. But that it 
was foreseeable they would take such a step given what Santander told them  and this 
would cause them harm.
When an application to port a mortgage is made and additional borrowing is required, a 
lender will need to complete a number of checks and satisfy itself that the lending is 
affordable as well as the new property being acceptable security for the lending. It is clear 
from the phone calls that Mr and Mrs M had with Santander that they were keen to stay with 
it as their lender. This would have meant they could have carried forward the rate of their 
existing borrowing for part of their new mortgage and been able to avoid paying a large 
ERC. 
Mr and Mrs M made a number of phone calls to Santander to understand what it needed 
from them to confirm the borrowing was affordable. During these calls Santander looked at a 
number of different scenarios based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs M, this 
included doing quotes with existing short-term borrowing commitments being repaid. This 
brought the total borrowing closer, although Santander never reached a point where the total 
lending Mr and Mrs M required was showing as available. 
Santander provided the details of an independent financial advice service to Mr and Mrs M 
so they could seek advice on what their best options might be. They explained they could 
not advise them to repay debts but simply provide information about what might be available 
in terms of its maximum lending if some of these had been repaid or reduced. Mr and Mrs M 
say the information about what might have been available led them to believe their only 
option to have a chance of securing the mortgage they wanted with Santander was to repay 
some of their short-term lending commitments and they did this. Theyve not said they spoke 
to the independent financial adviser. They did what they thought was needed based on the 
information provided by Santander to help get them to the amount they wanted with their 
application.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs M took the steps they did when trying to increase the 
available borrowing with Santander, but I dont think Santander has done anything wrong 
when it provided the information it did. 
The advisers provided clear information on what it needed from Mr and Mrs M with their 
income details and this gave them clarity on how providing 3 months worth of payslips with 
overtime payments could result in more of the income being considered as primary income. 
Mr and Mrs M wanted to provide this and also took the decision to sell their car and clear the 
personal loan on this, all in hope that it would increase the maximum lending Santander 
could offer. But as Ive said previously, at no point did Santander confirm it could lend Mr 
and Mrs M the full amount they needed even when loans had been repaid. It explained that 
extra visible income and reduced monthly payments could get them closer to the amount 
they needed but there was still a shortfall.Santander explained that Mr and Mrs M may have wanted to avoid waiting for the extra 
information they needed and seek independent advice and an offer from another provider, 
but they chose not to do this. So I dont think it is fair to say Santander delayed the process. 
It was able to assess information when it was provided and Mr and Mrs M had the option to 
look at other options when their application with Santander was not able to progress until this 
further information could be provided. 
I dont think it would be fair to say Santander did anything wrong with Mr and Mrs Ms 
application. Nor do I think it was foreseeable that its actions could cause them harm. It 
provided details on what might be achievable but also explained it couldnt provide advice on 
whether they chose to repay some of their debts or not. And it was up to Mr and Mrs M as to 
whether they wanted to use the independent advisers provided. 
When the port could not be achieved as Santander could not lend Mr and Mrs M the 
additional borrowing they needed, their mortgage with it was redeemed. This meant the ERC 
that Mr and Mrs M had been trying to avoid having to pay, became payable. This has been 
correctly applied and I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to refund it. I dont believe 
Santander has done anything wrong when handling the application and providing the 
information it did and Mr and Mrs M took steps to repay loans and sell their car without 
seeking any financial advice offered by Santander on what their best options might be.
I appreciate this situation will have been upsetting for Mr and Mrs M as they worked hard to 
provide information that they felt would allow them to get the mortgage they wanted. And this 
combined with the general stresses of buying and selling a house will have made this a 
difficult time. However, Ive not seen anything to demonstrate Santander treated them 
unfairly when considering their application for the additional borrowing. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman