DRN-3785357
The complaint
Mrs M complains that MBNA Limited failed to process a chargeback for her.
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs M paid £54 on her credit card for tickets to a theme park and zoo. Mrs M 
went to the park on 9 July 2021. She was unhappy with her experience because the soft 
play area and a third of the 18 rides advertised as suitable for pre-schoolers, were closed. 
Mrs M contacted MBNA on 12 July 2021, to ask it to do a chargeback.
MBNA reviewed Mrs Ms request to do a chargeback, it sent Mrs M emails requesting further 
information about her claim. When Mrs M contacted MBNA on 3 February 2022 to chase an 
update on her claim, it informed her it had closed her claim on 26 November 2021, because 
she hadnt responded to its request for further information. Mrs M said she hadnt received 
any of MBNAs emails, so didnt think it was fair that her claim was closed. 
MBNA said it had correctly closed Mrs Ms chargeback claim because she hadnt provided 
the information it needed to be able to submit her claim within the chargeback rules 120-
days timescale, by 5 November 2021. Unhappy with this response Mrs M complained to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think MBNA had 
done anything wrong because Mrs M failed to provide the information it needed to process 
her claim within 120 days. She concluded that even if a claim had been submitted, she 
thought it was unlikely to be successful. 
Mrs M disagreed, she asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When something goes wrong with a payment made on a credit card, there are two ways that 
the credit card company may be able to help. One is a chargeback, and the other is a 
section 75 request, which is named after the underpinning law, section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.  To bring a claim under section 75, the transaction on the credit card must 
be over £100 and less than £30,000. As Mrs M paid £54 for the park tickets, section 75 
doesnt apply, so Ive only looked at the chargeback request. 
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules  and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success  we consider it to be good practice for a chargeback claim 
to be made. Mrs M bought the park tickets in March 2021, she went to the park on 9 July 
2021 and requested a chargeback on 12 July 2021.
 
In Mrs Ms case, MBNA say that her request was both out of time and unlikely to be 
successful. Ill look at the issue of timing first. The time limits for requesting a chargeback are 
set out in the card scheme rules and must be strictly followed. The rules here say that the 
dispute must be processed within 120 days of either the payment or the date Mrs M received 
the service, if later. Mrs M went to the park on 9 July 2021, which is the date of service, so 
the latest date to raise her chargeback was 5 November 2021.
 
Mrs M disputes the payment on the basis that the service provided by the merchant (the 
theme park) wasnt as described or was defective. This is a valid reason for a claim under 
the scheme rules, but the claim needs to be supported by evidence. On 21 July 2021 MBNA 
sent Mrs M an email asking her to confirm whether she had requested a refund directly from 
the merchant and if not, why not. It also asked her to provide a copy of the tickets and terms 
and conditions provided, to consider her claim. In its email MBNA explained that it only had a 
limited amount of time to raise Mrs Ms chargeback and asked her to provide the information 
within four weeks. I can see MBNA also sent Mrs M a follow up email. Mrs M didnt respond 
to MBNAs information request, in time for it to raise a chargeback by 5 November 2021.
Mrs M says she didnt receive any emails from MBNA requesting further information to 
support her claim. I can see that MBNA sent its emails to the same email address we hold 
for her, so Im satisfied MBNA did send Mrs M the information request. More recently Mrs M 
said MBNA did send emails with links to requests for information, but it didnt give any details 
about what transaction it related to. I can see that MBNA did detail the transaction and the 
date of the transaction at the top of its emails requesting further information. So, I dont think 
MBNA made a mistake here and Im satisfied that Mrs M did not provide the information 
required to support her claim in time for a chargeback to be raised within 120 days of the 
service.
Turning to the claim itself, Mrs M disputes the payment on the basis that the service the 
theme park provided wasnt as described. Mrs M says she was expecting 18 rides that were 
suitable for pre-schoolers, but this wasnt the case. The park Mrs M attended is a theme park 
and zoo and the website says, 18 pre-schooler rides and attractions, including soft play. I 
can also see from the website that 'attractions' refers to zoo-related adventures and 
activities, so I cant agree that Mrs M was promised that there would be 18 pre-schooler 
rides.
Mrs M says that on the day she visited the park a third of the 18 pre-schooler rides were 
closed along with the soft play. Regarding the closure of attractions and rides the parks 
website says rides are subject to availability and may close for technical or operational 
reasons, capacity, inclement weather, special events or to ensure the safety and security of 
guests or if it reasonably considers the circumstances so requireIts very rare that we 
know ahead of your visit date if an attraction is planned to be unavailable.Taking the information available on the parks website Im satisfied that the park can close its 
rides or attractions at its discretion. And I think the information about the closure of 
attractions and rides is clearly provided on its website. So, I cant agree that Mrs M didnt get 
the service described.
Ive carefully considered everything that Mrs M has said. But Im not satisfied that she 
responded to MBNAs request for supporting evidence in time, for MBNA to put forward a 
request under the card schemes rules. And, even if she had responded in time, I dont think 
Ive seen anything which makes me think a chargeback claim would have been successful. 
So, I think it was reasonable here that MBNA didnt submit the claim under the card scheme. 
I realise this will be disappointing for Mrs M, but I dont think MBNA made a mistake, so Im 
not going to ask them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman