DRN-3650215
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T complains that First Data Europe Limited (trading as
Clover Merchant Services) didnt set up its account correctly leading to incorrect charges
being applied to certain transactions.
The complaint is brought on Ts behalf by its director, Mr L.
What happened
For ease of understanding Ive set out list of the parties involved in the complaint as follows:
Clover  The merchant services provider responsible for processing transactions on
Ts behalf.
P  the service provider of the card terminal for card present transactions working
on Clovers behalf to fulfil its contractual obligations to T.
S  the service provider for Ts card not present transactions including e-commerce,
mail order and telephone order transactions (MOTO).
Mr L told us:
In March 2019, T signed an agreement with Clover to provide it with merchant
banking services for card present transactions. This meant T would hire a card
terminal from Clover. This part of the contract was fulfilled on Clovers behalf by P.
Due to the nature of the business, T also wanted to be able to accept transactions
through mail order and telephone order (MOTO). T wanted to process these 
transactions through a different company, S, and didnt think this would be an issue
as Clover dealt with numerous transaction providers, including S. In April 2019, the
agreement with S was signed and Clover would provide the services for all Ts
transactions received from both providers.
In around June 2020, he noticed that T was being charged an incorrect fee for its
payments through Ss system. It appeared that all the payments were being
processed through Ps system - which then charged an additional fee because T
didnt have the agreement for these payments.
He initially raised a complaint against P, but it wasnt responsible for how the
payments were processed and couldnt help. He then approached S and Clover for a
refund of the charges. S explained that it had received confirmation from Clover that
its merchant ID had been set up successfully before it started processing Ts
payments. When he didnt get a satisfactory response from Clover, he asked this
service to look into Ts complaint.
This service asked Clover for information by email and phone every couple of weeks from
October 2021 until June 2022, when the investigator issued her view, but it didnt respond.
So our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that based on what she
could see from the evidence Mr L had provided, Clover had used the wrong merchant ID for
S when processing Ts MOTO transactions, and used Ps merchant ID for all transactions
received for T. So she recommended that Clover refund all the charges and the fees that
Clover had applied in error for transactions that should have been processed through Ss
merchant ID.
T accepted the investigators view but Clover didnt say whether it accepted or rejected the
view. This was despite the investigator calling Clover, who acknowledged the view had been
received. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 August 2022. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the information provided from Mr L, it appears that the key complaint here 
is that Ts e-commerce and MOTO transactions had the wrong fee type applied. I can 
see that Clover says it wasnt responsible for this, but Im not persuaded thats the 
case. Ill explain why.
When a merchant services provider undertakes transactions on a customers behalf, 
there are two different types which can be applied, qualifying or non-qualifying 
transactions. The charges for a qualifying transaction are less than the charges for a 
non-qualifying transaction.
For a MOTO transaction to be treated as qualifying, the three-digit card verification 
value (CVV) on the back of a card and the registered address need to be input 
correctly. Its also important that the merchant account for the customer needs to be 
set up to process MOTO transactions, if not all these transactions would be treated 
as non-qualifying and a higher fee will be applied.
In simple terms, the process here looks to be as follows:
T receives a card present transaction.
This is received through Ps card terminal using its merchant ID and Clover
processes the payment applying the relevant charges.
T receives an e-commerce, mail, or telephone order transaction.
This is received through Ss system/terminal using its merchant ID and Clover
processes the payment using these details. If all payment details are correct 
in line with the terms and conditions, it is processed as qualifying if the 
payment details are not present/correct it is processed as non-qualifying.
However, Clover says that it didnt have an agreement in place with T to process 
MOTO transactions, and therefore any transactions it processed in this way were 
treated as non-qualifying and the higher fee was charged. Looking at the evidence, I 
think all payments received by Clover from T were processed through Ps merchant 
system ID rather than just the card present transactions. And because T didnt have an agreement with P to process these transactions, they were charged the non-
qualifying rate.
Ive seen email correspondence between S and Mr L which said that Ts customer 
account with S was set up for MOTO transactions. It also said that Ss merchant ID 
for these transactions on Ts behalf had been confirmed with Clover, along with the 
card terminal IDs and that Clover would have had to confirm this information was 
correct before any transactions could be used through S. Ive also seen screen shots 
of Ss secure set up with Clover at 16:06 on 7 April 2019. So based on all the 
evidence available, I think Clover agreed to accept MOTO transactions for T through 
Ss systems, and therefore it hasnt processed these types of transactions correctly.
Clovers operating guide says that even if its merchant services system is set up to 
receive e-commerce and MOTO transactions, they are only treated as qualifying 
transactions in the following circumstances Card Not Present MOTO: MOTO 
transactions that capture the Card Security Code (CSC) submitted for processing 
within two business days of the transaction and Card Not Present eCommerce: 3D 
secure enabled eCommerce transactions submitted for processing within two 
business days of the transactions. Mr L has provided evidence of all the transactions 
he believes were incorrectly treated as non-qualifying from April 2019. And based 
on what Ive seen I think Clover has applied the incorrect fee and treated T unfairly in 
how its processed the MOTO transactions.
Ive seen numerous emails from Mr L to Clover asking why T was charged a non-
qualifying fee for MOTO transactions, and Mr L was repeatedly referred to P to 
discuss the fees when T didnt have an agreement with P for this type of transaction. 
This meant T was caused inconvenience as Mr L wasnt able to resolve the error with 
Clover despite numerous calls and emails and trying to explain that this appeared to 
be a processing error  rather than an issue with the cost of the fees being applied.
From what Ive seen, I think Clover misunderstood the error which had taken place 
with Ts MOTO transactions. Clover continually referred Mr L back to P as the card 
provider acting on its behalf, rather than identifying that T had two different providers 
for the different types of transactions. I dont think Clover identified that S hadnt been 
set up correctly on its systems, and that all MOTO transactions should have been 
processed through S not P. So I think Clover are responsible for the error here and 
need to put things right.
Looking at the information received on the complaint, it appears that the issue is 
ongoing. Therefore I think Clover needs to review Ts account and ensure that both P 
and S are set up correctly on its system so future transactions are applied correctly. I 
also think Clover should review all Ts transactions since 4 April 2019 until the matter 
is resolved, recalculate all the charges and refund those that were applied incorrectly. 
Its also clear that Clover has caused T inconvenience over a period of several years, 
so I think it should pay £300 compensation.
I invited T and Clover to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. T accepted the decision and said it had nothing 
further to add. Clover didnt say whether it agreed or disagreed with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, as T responded to say it accepted the decision and had nothing further to 
add and Clover hasnt responded with any further information, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion. So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct First Data Europe Limited to:
Update its system records for T so that transactions are processed through P and Ss
different merchant IDs correctly.
Re-calculate all the charges correctly and refund T for the transactions which have
been incorrectly charged non-qualifying transaction fees from the start of the
agreement in April 2019 until the date the error is resolved, and
Pay H £300 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman