DRN-1892074
The complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt pay him the referral payment when 
his family member opened an account with them.
Mr T also complains about the poor customer service he received in relation to this.
What happened
Nationwide offered a recommend a friend scheme which allowed for existing Nationwide 
account holders to recommend a friend to open an account with them. Once the friend had 
opened an account (upon meeting the terms and conditions of the scheme) Nationwide 
would offer £100 to the existing account holder and new account holder.
To qualify for the offer, the terms and conditions say there is a two-step process that the 
recommended friend needs to follow:
Step 1 says the new account holder must complete a full switch from their previous 
account provider to a Nationwide FlexAccount, FlexDirect or FlexPlus current 
account.
And step 2 says that, once the switch has been started, the friend will need to 
complete the online recommendation form which is accessed through the link given 
to them by the recommender within 90 days of them completing step 1.
In January 2019, Mr T says he received an email from Nationwide containing a link allowing 
him to recommend a friend which he passed on to his family member. A few days later, Mr 
Ts family member then switched their current account from their other bank to Nationwide.
Mr T says he realised in April 2019 that he hadnt received the £100 referral payment, so he 
contacted Nationwide about this. Nationwide say they didnt pay the referral payment 
because Mr Ts family member didnt meet the eligibility criteria under the recommend a 
friend schemes terms and conditions.
 
Mr T doesnt think it was fair that Nationwide didnt allow his family member to open a 
FlexAccount - they explained the family member was only eligible for another type of current 
account which they opened at the time.
Mr T is also unhappy with the customer service he received. He said:
Nationwide didnt contact him to let him know he wouldnt be receiving the £100 
referral payment due to his family member not being eligible to open a FlexAccount.
When he called in April 2019 to find out why he hadnt received the £100, he was 
promised a call back but unfortunately, this didnt happen.
Nationwide recognised Mr T was promised a call back in April 2019 but that this didnt 
happen. Nationwide apologised and offered Mr T £50 compensation in recognition of the 
poor service he received. But Mr T didnt accept this.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts concerns. He said as Mr Ts family member didnt meet 
the eligibility criteria under the schemes terms and conditions, Nationwide hadnt acted 
unfairly in not paying Mr T and his family member the £100. Our investigator also said step 2 
of the process wasnt completed and this was why Nationwide hadnt contacted Mr T and his 
family member to let them know they wouldnt be receiving the £100 payment. Overall, he 
didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly.
Mr T disagreed. He said Nationwide have acted unreasonably as they havent explained why 
his family member didnt meet the eligibility criteria of the FlexAccount. Mr T agrees the 
account his family member opened didnt qualify for the recommend a friend referral offer of 
£100. But having looked at the eligibility criteria for the account his family member did open 
in the end, Mr T doesnt feel his family member qualifies for it as he says that type of account 
is only for customers with a certain financial background. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make clear that my decision is only looking at whether Nationwide have treated Mr 
T fairly in not paying him the £100 referral payment and if I think theres more Nationwide 
should do to recognise the poor customer service he received. I am not looking into 
Nationwides decision regarding which account Mr Ts family member was eligible for  Mr T 
is not eligible to complain about that, as it is a matter between Nationwide and their other 
customer.
Having reviewed the Terms and Conditions of the recommend a friend scheme, it is clear 
the first step is that the new account holder must complete a full switch from their previous 
account provider to one of the following: Nationwide FlexAccount, FlexDirect or FlexPlus 
current account. And that once the full switch completes successfully, payment is made to 
both the recommender and the recommended friend within 30 days.
All parties agree that Mr Ts family member attempted to apply for the FlexAccount. But as 
his family member didnt meet the eligibility criteria for this, they were offered another type of 
account which wasnt eligible for the £100 incentive payment. As the account eventually 
opened by Mr Ts family member was not on the list of those that qualify under the 
recommend a friend scheme, Im satisfied Nationwide havent acted unfairly in not paying 
Mr T the £100 payment offered under the scheme.  
Mr T says he contacted Nationwide in April 2019 to find out why he hadnt yet received the 
£100 referral payment. He says he doesnt think its fair he wasnt told at the time why he 
wouldnt receive the £100 referral payment.
I appreciate Mr Ts disappointment in Nationwide not contacting him to let him know that he 
wouldnt receive the £100 referral payment. Nationwide have said they dont proactively 
contact consumers to let them know theyre not eligible for an application through the 
recommend a friend scheme. And I cant see anything in the terms and conditions which 
say Nationwide are obliged to contact customers about this. So, whilst I can understand Mr 
Ts upset, I dont think Nationwide have done anything wrong.
I appreciate Mr T wants to know why his family member was only able to take out one type 
of current account with Nationwide. However, it wouldn't be appropriate for Nationwide to tell 
Mr T anything further - beyond whether he was eligible for the referral payment or not - as it relates to personal data for a separate individual. So, I don't think Nationwide have acted 
incorrectly by not providing Mr T with further details.
Nationwide have also acknowledged Mr T was promised a call back in April 2019 but that 
this didnt happened. I think its disappointing this didnt happen and I can understand the 
frustration and inconvenience this would have caused Mr T. However, I think Nationwides 
offer of £50 is fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr T £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman