DRN-1471773
 
The complaint
Mr M says Principality Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a remortgage in 2003.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr M is mainly concerned that the advisor who handled his mortgage application told him he 
wouldnt be accepted for the mortgage if he didnt take out PPI and he wasnt made aware it 
was optional.
So the complaint comes to me to decide how it should be settled.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Heres why I say this.
It isnt reasonable to expect Mr M to remember exactly what was discussed when he took 
out PPI so long ago. This means that what he says isnt enough on its own for me to be able 
to uphold this complaint just based on the way Mr M says he was sold PPI. I have to look at 
all the available information and decide, on balance, what I think is most likely.
I dont know what was said about PPI when Mr M applied for his mortgage. But I can see 
that it says on his mortgage application form that applicants are strongly recommended to 
take out PPI. So thats not wording that wouldve been used if Mr M didnt have any choice 
about taking it out  and it doesnt say anywhere on the mortgage application that applicants 
had to take out PPI. 
There are YES and NO options on his mortgage application which Mr M had to complete 
in order to say if he wanted PPI or not. So I think Mr M wouldve been able to see that it was 
up to him to say if he wanted to take out PPI. The YES box is marked to indicate that he did 
want to take out this insurance. Mr M could've marked the NO box instead if he hadnt 
wanted to take out PPI  this is left blank on Mr Ms mortgage application.  
In order to have PPI added on to his mortgage account Mr M also had to fill in a separate 
application  and hes done this, and chosen the amount of monthly benefit he 
required. Mr M also signed separately to set up payment arrangements for the PPI. By signing the completed paperwork, Mr M was agreeing to what had been put on the 
application forms. 
So, looking at all the available information, I cant fairly say I've seen enough to be able to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint on the basis that he wasnt made aware that the PPI was optional. I 
think the paperwork showed that Mr M had a choice about protecting his repayments - 
although I can completely understand why he mightve forgotten this after so long. 
Looked at overall, I find Principality Building Society made Mr M aware that PPI was optional 
and he chose to have it. 
Principality Building Society says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M. And even if Mr M 
feels PPI was recommended to him, I dont think a recommendation to have PPI wouldve 
been unsuitable  so this doesn't affect the outcome of his complaint. But Ive looked 
carefully at whether Principality Building Society gave Mr M enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for him  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought 
about whether that makes any overall difference to what happened.
The policy wouldve paid out a benefit for up to 12 months in the event of each successful 
accident or sickness claim  and repeat claims were possible providing Mr M with long term 
cover for his mortgage. So I think its likely, even if he mightve got some sick pay through 
work (Mr M couldnt remember), that the policy covered his mortgage repayments for longer 
than Mr M wouldve been able to depend on getting full sick pay from his employer if he 
couldnt work  and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work workplace benefits Mr M 
mightve got. So I think the policy couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time  
especially if Mr M mightve had extra costs as a result of being off work as a result of illness 
or disability. 
The policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mr M lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mr M was solely responsible for making his mortgage monthly repayments and PPI provided 
him with long term protection for his home. I think this wouldve been an important 
consideration for Mr M at the time. Given the serious consequences if he was unable to pay 
his mortgage I think it likely Mr M mightve considered the policy useful.
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the usual conditions that mightve limited the policys benefit 
to him. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think that knowing more about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to Mr Ms decision to take the policy out. 
On the mortgage application it said that Principality Building Society would pay for the first 
six months of cover. Mr M set up separate payment arrangements at his bank to cover the 
cost if he wanted to keep the policy running after the end of the free period. So it looks to me 
like he was happy to pay to have the PPI when he had to start paying for it. Mr M could've 
cancelled the policy if his circumstances changed or he didn't want to pay for this insurance. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr M wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided. On balance, I think he would still have taken out the policy. 
Ive also thought about whether Principality Building Society needs to give back to Mr M 
some of the commission he paid. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance 
dont apply to certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Ms mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So 
Principality Building Society doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr M paid for the 
PPI he had with that mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman