DRN-4155260
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by City & Trust Finance Limited (CTF) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
Mr C contacted CTF in late 1995 to discuss his pension provision and wider financial needs. 
Mr C met with CTF in early 1996 when CTF completed a fact-find to gather information 
about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. It noted the following:
Mr C was aged 36 and married with two dependent children aged 4 and 2. His wife 
was aged 26.
He earned an annual income of £20,300.
Mrs C wasnt working.
Mr and Mrs Cs home was valued at £40,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
£14,000.
Mr C had no savings or investments although he appeared to have had an 
endowment policy in the past. 
Mr C had accrued 18 years of service in his DB scheme and had paid in some AVCs 
too.
His financial goals were noted as retirement planning  with the aim of retiring at age 
60  providing for his family in the event of his death, and debt repayment. It was 
noted Mr C had taken a loan from his parents. 
On a handwritten note from around the time CTF met with Mr C it had noted also that he 
wanted to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension plan because he didnt trust his 
former employer with the future of his pension.
CTF also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
medium, or between five and six on a scale of one to ten. 
CTF contacted the DB scheme administrator for information about the DB scheme. The 
information provided by the scheme administrator showed that the total cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) for Mr Cs scheme benefits was £36,963.40 which included AVCs of 
£8,287. The scheme information also showed that at the schemes normal retirement date 
(NRD) of age 60, Mr Cs deferred pension benefits would provide him with an annual 
income of £6,144.58 (or £7,010.94 if taken at age 65). It also provided him with the option, at 
either retirement age, to take a reduced income and a tax-free lump sum. 
CTF contacted a pension provider (which I shall refer to as S) which produced illustrations 
and a transfer value analysis report (TVAS). This information was sent to Mr C by CTF on 
26 April 1996 and the covering letter said it was important that he fully understand the report. 
Mr C wrote to CTF in May 1996 to say that he wanted to proceed with the transfer because 
CTF had considered all the relevant factors about the transfer along with the annual 
investment return (also known as the critical yield) needed to match the benefits of his DB 
scheme. Mr C also said that the recommendation to transfer was based on reasonable 
assumptions. He said too that he understood he may get back less but that he considered 
the critical yield of 9.57% cited in the TVAS report to be achievable and was willing to 
transfer the CETV to S in view of its good investment record. Mr C said hed like his money 
invested 50% in the with profits fund and 50% in the mixed fund. 
Mr C completed the necessary paperwork and the transfer of his DB scheme benefits took 
place at the end of July 1996. A total of £37,630.08 was transferred into a personal pension 
provided by S. 
In or around 2009, Mr C engaged the services of a new independent financial adviser (IFA) 
and following the advice he received he transferred his personal pension to another provider. 
In March 2022, Mr C complained through his representative to CTF about the suitability of 
the transfer advice it had given him. He said that as a result of the advice hed received hed 
suffered a financial loss as well as losing all the guaranteed benefits associated with his DB 
scheme. Mr C said that CTF had failed to assess the suitability and the associated risk of its 
recommendation to transfer. Finally, Mr C said that CTF had offered unrealistic guarantees 
in relation to the investment performance of the personal pension and hadnt taken into 
account all of his goals, objectives and personal circumstances.
CTF looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it had 
explained to him the guarantees he was giving up and that forthwith he would be the one to 
bear the financial risk associated with his pension. It also said it had explained the need for 
him to supplement his financial planning by taking out other insurance to replace the 
guarantees hed had with his DB scheme. CTF said it had adhered to the regulators 
requirements as they stood at the time and at no time had it provided Mr C with any 
guarantees as to the future performance of his new pension. Finally CTF said it had taken 
Mr Cs aims and objectives into account when it was advising him. 
Unhappy with the conclusion of CTFs investigation into his complaint, Mr C complained to 
this service. Our Investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint and recommended that it was 
upheld. He thought that Mr C was unlikely to be able to improve on his DB scheme benefits 
as a result of investing in the way CTF had advised him to and thus was more likely to 
receive benefits at retirement of a lower overall value than those he was giving up. Our 
Investigator also thought that Mr C had little capacity for los, nor did he think there were 
really any other compelling reasons to justify the transfer. Finally our Investigator noted that 
CTF hadnt provided Mr C with a recommendation so hadnt acted with due care, skill or 
diligence. Our Investigator recommended that CTF compensate Mr C in line with the 
regulators rules for calculating pension redress. 
CTF disagreed with our Investigators findings. It said: -
it thought the recommendation to transfer, and that the choice of investments, was 
suitable for Mr Cs target investment growth. 
that based at the information available at the time, and in the early years after the 
transfer, the investment growth exceeded the critical yield of 9.57% identified in the 
TVAS. 
that the security of Mr Cs pension, in an era before the existence of the Pension 
Protection Fund, was very important to him. CTF explained that a couple of years after 
the advice, Mr C had called to say he had changed employers and had negotiated a 
higher salary in exchange for not joining his new companys pension scheme. CTF said it 
advised him against this but that Mr C had explained that a family member had seen his 
pension benefits disappear in a scandal. As a result, Mr C wanted his own plan that he was in control of so that he never found himself in a similar situation. CTF said that the 
problems that had befallen Mr Cs family member may well have pre-dated its 1996 
advice to him and had thus underpinned Mr Cs objective of transferring and taking 
control of this pension himself.
It hadnt wished to influence Mr Cs decision so had set out the information for him in an 
objective manner whilst retaining impartiality. 
Facts about the transfer were discussed during the advice process and it made sure Mr 
C understood what he was giving up. 
That the robustness of files and the information included in suitability letters has changed 
a lot since the 1990s.
It disputed that accepting advice about the provision for protection indicated a prudent 
approach on the part of Mr C. CTF said this was because having recommended suitable 
protection plans for him, none were put in place which shows that it cant really have 
been a particular priority for him. CTF listed all the plans it had set up and/or 
recommended and which had been cancelled shortly after inception or were never taken 
up. 
Mr Cs approach to security and financial planning demonstrated that he didnt want to 
be in a DB scheme.
It disputed that Mr C had no capacity for loss. CTF said that at 36, Mr C had most of his 
working life ahead of him so had the opportunity to accrue more pension benefits. 
Our Investigator thought about what CTF had said but wasnt persuaded to change his mind.
The complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The advice was provided by CTF in late 1995 to early 1996. At this time it was regulated by 
the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). CTF was a previous member of the Financial 
Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). When the PIA 
took responsibility for FIMBRA businesses in 1994, it adopted the FIMBRA rules. And these 
adopted rules applied at the time of the advice in this case.
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CTFs actions here.
The FIMBRA rulebook set out the expectations on members when giving advice. The key 
rules applying from April 1988 were as follows:
Rule 4.2.1 required an adviser to take reasonable steps to obtain relevant information 
concerning a clients personal and financial circumstances in order to provide 
investment services.Rule 4.3.1 required FIMBRA members to take all reasonable steps to satisfy 
themselves that the client understood the risks involved in a transaction.
Rule 4.4.1 required members to establish, based on their knowledge of the client and 
any other relevant information which ought reasonably to be known to them, which 
types of investment that were the most suitable for them.
In July 1988 an amendment to the guidelines on best advice required members to ensure 
their recommendations were made on the basis of the client's best interest rather than the 
income generated for the member. In July 1994, in a further amendment to the guidelines, 
members were required to produce a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) and a reason why 
letter to explain the recommendation being give and why the advice is suitable. It was 
possible for a pension provider to carry out the TVAS on behalf of an IFA. 
The regulator, the PIA, also indicated in July 1994 that it expected firms to find that many 
customers would be better advised to remain in their occupational schemes, however, it 
should be presumed that it would be unsuitable for an active member to opt-out of their 
occupational DB scheme. 
Ive considered the advice given to Mr C with this in mind.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Financial viability 
S carried out a TVAS report on behalf of CTF (as was permitted by the regulator at the time) 
showing how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor at the time the advice was given in this case. 
Mr C was aged 36 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at age 60. The critical yield 
required to match Mr Cs benefits at age 60 was 9.57% if he took a full pension. No critical 
yield was produced for taking a tax-free lump sum and a reduced pension. This compares 
with the discount rate of 9.9% for 24 years to retirement in this case. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle projection rate 9%, and 
the lower projection rate was 6%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. 
In order to achieve benefits that were better than those offered by the DB scheme he was 
giving up, Mr Cs personal pension fund had to provide a greater annual return that 9.57% 
each year. This figure is very slightly lower than the discount rate of 9.9% but slightly higher 
that the regulators middle growth rate. 
CTF assessed Mr Cs ATR to be five to six on a scale of one to ten but Im unable to agree 
with that assessment. There is nothing in the fact-find to support the conclusion that Mr C 
was an individual whose ATR was bordering on aggressive (or level six on a scale of one to 
ten). I would expect someone whose ATR is assessed at a level six to be able to display some evidence of previous investment experience. However, aside from a mention that an 
endowment policy had been surrendered (there are no details for how long it was held etc.) 
there is no evidence that Mr C had any investment experience; indeed he had no savings or 
investments at all. So there was nothing in his profile that, in my view, could lead to the 
conclusion that Mr C, someone with no experience of investing in the stock market, should 
reasonably be classified as someone whose ATR was bordering on aggressive and who was 
willing to take the investment risks necessary to achieve the returns needed so that his 
personal pension fund grew to a point that it was able to match his DB scheme benefits. 
I think that Mr Cs ATR, given his personal circumstances at the time, should more 
reasonably have been assessed as no more than medium/moderate (or level 5 on CTFs 
fact-find). Indeed the with-profits fund in which Mr C invested 50% of his transferred pension 
benefits is generally regarded as a lower risk investment and thus was likely to achieve 
returns nearer the lower end of the regulators projection rates. And whilst I note CTFs 
comment that at the time of the advice, and in the early years after the transfer, that the 
investment growth exceeded the critical yield of 9.57%, the fact remains that the pension 
needed to achieve annual investment growth of 9.57% throughout its entire term just to 
match the benefits Mr C was giving up in his DB scheme. 
So I think that its unlikely that someone with a medium ATR (or no more than 5 on a scale of 
1 to 10) would, if it was fully explained to them, be willing to take the investment risks 
necessary to achieve an annual investment return in excess of 9% just to match the scheme 
benefits being given up. In any event, there would be little advantage to giving up the 
guarantees associated with a DB scheme just to be able to match  not even exceed  the 
benefits being given up. 
Nor do I think that the length of time Mr C had to go to retirement means his capacity for loss 
was significant. I can see that Mr C had no savings at the time of the advice. He had a 
mortgage but I dont know how long it had left to run. But it cant be assumed that just 
because Mr C had 24 years to go until he retired that he could afford to gamble by 
transferring his DB scheme. The income he was forecast to receive at retirement from the 
scheme (if he remained) is, I think, one he didnt have the capacity to lose. 
So given the critical yield was 9.57%, that Mr Cs ATR should more reasonably have been 
assessed at no more than level 5/medium, that the regulators middle projection rate was 9% 
and that Mr C had invested half his pension on CTFs advice in a lower risk (and therefore 
likely to give lower returns) with-profits fund, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a 
lower overall value than from his DB scheme at retirement, as a result. 
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as CTF has 
argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Other considerations
From the available evidence it appears that Mr C had no specific objectives in making the 
transfer beyond wanting to do so because he didnt trust his former employer with the future 
of his pension. There was also a reference in the fact-find to Mr C wanting to provide for his 
family in the event of his death but Im not persuaded that this was a reason for Mr C 
transferring his DB scheme. There certainly is no reference to it in the evidence Ive seen.And I have noted that CTF endeavoured to address the issue of life insurance with Mr C 
through a series of recommended protection plans (including life assurance policies) that 
were either not taken up or the direct debits were stopped shortly after inception. I can see 
that CTF put together a package of protection plans in June 1996 that provided Mr C with 
£157,602 of life insurance cover (which included £50,000 of critical illness cover) at a cost to 
him of £50 per month. So I cant reasonably say that the death benefits associated with a 
personal pension plan were one of Mr Cs objectives for transferring. 
That said, I do think that CTF failed to highlight the death benefits Mr C had under his 
existing DB scheme. Mr C was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme 
wouldve been useful to his wife (and indirectly his dependent children) if Mr C predeceased 
her. I dont think CTF made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr C. It was guaranteed 
and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance  whereas any sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I think Mr Cs desire for control over his pension benefits because he didnt want to entrust 
them to his former employer (or feared they would be lost in a pension scandal) was 
overstated. Mr C was not an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in 
or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that 
this was a genuine objective for Mr C  it was simply a consequence of transferring away 
from his DB scheme. And based on what Ive seen the funding of his employers DB scheme 
was not in a position such that Mr C should have genuinely been concerned about the 
security of his pension. And if it was acting in Mr Cs best interests I think that CTF should 
have done more to allay any fears Mr C had in this respect or, at the very least, explored 
with him why he felt that way. But Ive seen no evidence that it did so. 
Nor have I seen any evidence that CTF explained to Mr C that his retirement aim of age 60 
could be achieved by remaining in his DB scheme. In any event, Mr C was only aged 36 at 
the time of the advice, and based on what Ive seen he didnt have concrete retirement 
plans. As Mr C had 24 years before he thought he would retire, I think it was too soon to 
make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr C to give up his guaranteed benefits when he didnt know 
what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr C later had reason to transfer out of his DB 
scheme he could have done so closer to retirement.
From 1994, the then industry regulator, the PIA, required advisers to provide consumers with 
a reason why letter to explain the recommendation being given and why the advice to 
transfer was suitable. There is one letter from CTF to Mr C on file dated 29 April 1996. The 
letter set out the four options Mr C had and enclosed the TVAS and pension illustration. At 
no point in the letter did CTF make a recommendation or explain to Mr C why the transfer 
was suitable for him. And as CTF has told us since, it hadnt wished to influence Mr Cs 
decision so had set out the information for him in an objective manner whilst retaining 
impartiality. But CTF doesnt deny that it gave Mr C advice or recommended the alternative 
pension arrangement so I dont think it met the requirements of the PIA regulations. It should 
have been advising Mr C on the best course of action and explaining to him why it was in his 
best interests to take it. But I cant see that CTF discharged its responsibilities in this respect 
at any point in the advice process. 
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr C, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr C should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments he made wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the control of his pension sounded like an attractive feature to Mr C. But 
CTF wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr c needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits given his ATR and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
Mr Cs only objective was to remove control of his pension from his former employer but I 
dont think CTF interrogated this objective in any meaningful way  it didnt establish (at the 
time) why Mr C felt that way, nor did it challenge any preconceived ideas he had on the 
matter. I appreciate the PPF was yet to be established, and that there were some 
contemporary pension scandals happening but that didnt mean that Mr Cs DB scheme was 
similarly at risk. A robust conversation about this ought to have reassured Mr C that 
remaining in his DB scheme was in his best interest.
So Im not persuaded that Mr Cs concerns about his former employer were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests; 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr C would have insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
So, I think CTF shouldve advised Mr C to remain in his DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think CTF should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for CTF to put Mr C as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
CTF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CTF should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts CTFs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, CTF may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require City & Trust Finance 
Limited to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
City & Trust Finance Limited pays Mr C the balance.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on City & Trust Finance 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman