DRN-1957937
 
The complaint
Mr M complaints about Call Assist Ltd and their failure to recover his car after reporting a 
breakdown on his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr Ms car broke down when he was in France. Mr M held a roadside 
assistance policy with Call Assist, which included European cover, so he called them to 
arrange recovery.
On the initial call, Mr M provided his contact number. Call Assist repeated this to him before 
agreeing to arrange for a third-party breakdown company, who Ill refer to as O, to recover 
his car. They provided Mr Ms contact number to O so they could arrange the actual 
recovery directly.
Mr M waited a number of hours but didnt receive any contact from O or Call Assist. So, he 
arranged his own recovery with a local breakdown company himself. During this time, O 
made Call Assist aware the number they were given wasnt correct and theyd been unable 
to locate Mr Ms car. Call Assist checked Mr Ms insurance policy and discovered the 
number theyd provided to O was incorrect by one digit. Call Assist called Mr M back to ask 
whether he still needed assistance and he explained hed arranged to be recovered himself. 
But he wanted to raise a complaint about Call Assists failure to recover him and the length 
of time hed been left waiting.
Call Assist responded, agreeing theyd provided the wrong number to O which had meant 
theyd be unable to recover Mr Ms car. But they explained Mr M had agreed the incorrect 
number was in fact correct to the agent on the initial call. So, they didnt think the error was 
entirely their fault. Because of this, they offered Mr M a good will gesture of £30 to recognise 
theyd provided the incorrect number to O. Mr M was unhappy with this response as hed 
spent £300 to recover his car himself and he felt Call Assist should reimburse him this cost. 
So, he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He agreed that Call Assist 
had passed the incorrect number to O. But after listening to the initial call, he thought Mr M 
had agreed that the wrong number was correct. So, he thought Call Assist had acted fairly 
and in Mr Ms best interests at the time. He also didnt think Call Assist wouldve been able 
to do anything more till O made them aware the number was incorrect and that the actions 
they took after this were fair. So, he thought the £30 offer they made was fair to recognise 
the initial mistake they made whilst taking into account Mr M had confirmed the incorrect 
number. Because of this, he didnt think Call Assist needed to do anything further.
Mr M didnt agree. He didnt think the £30 offer was enough to take into consideration the 
length of time hed waited and the financial cost of arranging his own breakdown company to 
recover his car. Our investigator made Mr M aware wed only be able to consider the 
financial loss of Mr M if he could provide evidence to support it and Mr M confirmed he was unable to. Even so, Mr M asked for his complaint to be escalated and so its been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the inconvenience Mr M suffered by having to arrange his own 
recovery. Ive got no doubt it wouldve been a stressful experience breaking down in a 
foreign country. And Im aware Mr M wouldve took out the roadside assistance cover to 
make things easier for him in this kind of situation. So, when Call Assist were unable to do 
so, he wouldve been left frustrated and upset. But I must consider the actions Call Assist 
took and decide whether they were fair and reasonable given the circumstances of the 
claim. And having done so, I dont think there was much more they couldve done to prevent 
the delay and financial loss Mr M experienced.
Ive listened to the call recording of the call where Mr M first reported his breakdown. Having 
done so, I think its most likely Mr did provide his number correctly. But I do think it was 
difficult to make out on the call. So, the agent of Call Assist repeated the number theyd 
taken down twice. This number was wrong by one digit. On both occasions, the agent asked 
Mr M to confirm they had the number noted correctly and Mr M agreed that they did.
So, I think Call Assist acted fairly by then passing this number to O who would then contact 
Mr M directly. I wouldnt have expected Call Assist to do anything further at this point as it 
was reasonable for them to assume O would recover the car and then confirm this had 
taken place. Unfortunately, as the number was correct O were unable to contact Mr M and 
were unable to locate his car when they attended the location. So, they made Call Assist 
aware of the problems they faced. I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Call Assist 
responsible for the delays caused by Os inability to contact Mr M or find his car as I think it 
was reasonable for Call Assist to assume theyd provided all the correct information.
And I think Call Assist acted reasonably after this point. They checked Mr Ms insurance 
policy and by doing so, realised the contact number theyd taken was incorrect by one digit. 
They called Mr M to ask whether he still needed assistance and by this time hed arranged 
recovery himself. Although I understand Mr Ms point where hes asked why Call Assist 
didnt check his insurance policy in the first instance, this isnt something Id have expected 
them to do. I think Mr M clearly agreed the wrong number was in fact correct twice, and I 
dont think it would be fair for me to say Call Assist shouldve questioned that and looked 
into it further at that time.
Ive also considered Mr Ms belief that he should be reimbursed for the costs he incurred 
arranging his own recovery. But Mr M is unable to provide evidence to support this. Without 
evidence to show the costs he incurred, Im unable to consider these as part of any decision 
I reach.
So, Im left in a situation where I agree Call Assist have made an error by providing O with 
the incorrect contact number for Mr M. But, Mr M himself confirmed that number to be 
correct and I dont think Call Assist wouldve been able to do anything more to prevent the 
error from occurring. So, I dont think itd be fair to hold them entirely responsible for the 
delays Mr M experienced. Im also unable to consider any financial losses Mr M experienced 
as there is no evidence to support this. Taking all this into consideration, I think the £30 Call 
Assist offered is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve suggested. So, I dont think they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Call Assist Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman