DRN-3838137
The complaint
Mr W complains about issues with a kitchen that he paid for using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr W ordered a replacement kitchen from a kitchen supplier in July 2019. The 
kitchen price was £14,700 and the installation price was £2,700. Mr W made an 
advance payment of £3,400 and entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Novuna Personal Finance, that he electronically signed in July 2019, for a loan of 
£14,000 to pay for the kitchen, He agreed to make 132 monthly payments of £301 to 
Novuna Personal Finance commencing twelve months after the installation of the 
kitchen.
There were some issues with the kitchen after it was installed so Mr W contacted the 
kitchen supplier. It arranged for some repairs to be made in January 2020 but there 
was then a delay in further work caused by the government imposed restrictions in 
response to the pandemic. It then arranged for the kitchen to be inspected and an 
installation report was issued which identified issues with the kitchen. The supplier 
agreed to do the required remedial work and arranged for a fitter to attend Mr Ws 
home but all of the required parts werent delivered and Novuna Personal Finance 
says that Mr W then asked the fitter to leave.
Mr W complained to Novuna Personal Finance in August 2020 and it agreed to 
extend the payment deferral period until March 2022. It arranged for the kitchen to be 
inspected by the Furniture and Home Improvement Ombudsman. Its report was 
issued in November 2021 and also identified some issues with the kitchen. Novuna 
Personal Finance said that if Mr W wished to have his own fitters complete the works 
it would arrange to send him the relevant parts and offer to pay £360 to cover the 
costs of the work and £500 compensation, or if the kitchen supplier was to complete 
the works identified in the Furniture and Home Improvement Ombudsmans report it 
would require dates from him and would pay him £500 compensation, or if he wished 
to leave the kitchen as it is it he would be paid £1,000 to reflect the outstanding 
issues.
Those offers werent acceptable to Mr W. He complained to this service and he paid 
£150 in April 2022 for another inspection of the kitchen. The inspection report also 
identified issues with the kitchen. Our investigator recommended that Mr Ws 
complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr W was entitled to reject the kitchen. He 
recommended that Novuna Personal Finance should: collect the goods and end the 
agreement, making good any damage caused; remove any negative information 
relating to the agreement from Mr Ws credit file; and refund Mr Ws deposit of 
£3,400, deducting £1,260 as a fair usage charge, with interest.
Mr W has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in 
summary, that:
the fair usage charge is unjust, theres been no consideration for the cost of 
the April 2022 inspection report, his time and wasted holiday periods, endless 
phone calls and emails and the stress and constant dissatisfaction;
hes attempted to reject the goods, given more than two attempts of repairs to 
be completed and been told that any attempt to use a third party to repair the 
kitchen would breach the contract and guarantee;
this has had a devastating effect on his credit score which has caused more 
distress and been time consuming; and
the removal of the kitchen will entail further costs and anguish and concern.
Novuna Personal Finance hasnt accepted our investigators recommendations and 
says, in summary, that the supplier had organised and agreed to complete the 
remedial works and supply the products and the only reason that that failed was due 
to a third party carrier failing to deliver the product at the agreed time and Mr W then 
asked the fitters to leave. It proposes that Mr W retain the kitchen with minor issues 
and to have a reduction in the price and the credit agreement  and it says that the 
supplier would still supply the ordered products to him and the remedial work would 
be minimal.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision and said: I agree with the our 
investigator that this complaint should be upheld but consider that it should be resolved in a 
different way for these reasons:
Mr W used credit in the form of a loan from Novuna Personal Finance to pay for the 
kitchen and, in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or 
the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ws complaint about Novuna Personal Finance, I must be 
satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the kitchen 
supplier and that Novuna Personal Finances response to his claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ws claim 
under section 75 as only a court would be able to do that;
the breach of contract about which Mr W is complaining is that the kitchen isnt of 
satisfactory quality  three inspection reports have been provided all of which identify 
issues with the kitchen so I consider it to be clear that theres been a breach of 
contract by the kitchen supplier for which Novuna Personal Finance is jointly liable 
under section 75;
the kitchen supplier has accepted that there are issues with the kitchen and it 
arranged for some repairs in January 2020 and then arranged for the kitchen to be 
inspected and the installation report was issued which identified some issues with the 
kitchen;
the installation report said:
Levels checked throughout kitchen, all tall housing out of level;
Island dips in centre
Wall units out of level
Appliances poorly/incorrectly fitted. (f/freezer, fridge, oven & combi)
Int Washing machine door fascia poorly fitted
Plinth poorly fitted throughoutPoor quality installation throughout
Left hand  base of tall unit blown
Right hand  top door bowed/twisted
[two] carcase ends blown either side of dishwasher
 right hand door blown
Integrated dishwasher door blown
Integrated w/machine door incorrectly fitted/damaged plinth & end caps
Island w/top edge damaged (customer damage?)
Return w/top surface damage (customer damage?);
the kitchen supplier arranged for a fitter to attend Mr Ws home in July 2021 and it 
says that it sent the required parts to Mr W but a third party carrier failed to deliver 
the product at the agreed time and Mr W then asked the fitters to leave;
I can understand Mr Ws frustration about this and the distress and inconvenience 
that it caused him but I consider that the supplier was willing to carry out the remedial 
works and that its likely that they would have been completed if the parts had been 
delivered correctly;
Novuna Personal Finance arranged for the Furniture and Home Improvement 
Ombudsman to inspect the kitchen in November 2021 and its inspection report 
concluded:
In my opinion the products purchased by the consumer from the retailer are 
of a satisfactory standard. It is also my professional opinion, and based on my 
visual inspection, the installation of the kitchen is to an unsatisfactory 
standard in certain areas. There are minimal remedial workings required to 
enable balance and bring the aesthetics up to a professional finish. The 
issues identified that require remedial work in my opinion, are a result of  
unsatisfactory workmanship and the report then identified the remedial works 
required;
Mr W then paid £150 for the kitchen to be inspected again in April 2022 and the 
inspection report identified 26 itemised issues with the kitchen;
its clear that Mr W wants to reject the kitchen but I dont consider that rejection and 
the upheaval that it would cause and the making good that would be required would 
be a proportionate or appropriate remedy for the breach of contract in these 
circumstances;
the kitchen was installed more than three years ago and, whilst its clear that there 
are a number of issues with the kitchen, the Furniture and Home Improvement 
Ombudsman says that minimal remedial workings are required and all three reports 
identify specific issues that need to be corrected;
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Novuna 
Personal Finance to arrange and pay for all of the issues with the kitchen that have 
been identified in any of the inspection reports to be remedied;
those remedial works are likely to cause further disruption to Mr W and his wife  
which is in addition to the substantial disruption that theyve already suffered - and I 
find that it would be fair and reasonable for Novuna Personal Finance to pay Mr W 
£1,000 to compensate him for that disruption;
I understand that Mr W hasnt made any payments under the loan agreement to 
Novuna Personal Finance and that its issued a default notice to him  I consider that 
it would be fair and reasonable for Novuna Personal Finance to extend the deferral 
period under the loan agreement until such time as the remedial works have been 
completed and to remove any adverse information relating to the loan agreement that its recorded on Mr Ws credit file; and
I also consider that it should pay £150 to Mr W to reimburse him for the cost of the 
April 2022 inspection report.
Subject to any further representations from Mr W and Novuna Personal Finance my 
provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Novuna Personal Finance 
hasnt responded to my provisional decision and Mr W says that he will accept the proposals 
regarding the repairs to the kitchen but would like the following points to be addressed:
the final price he will pay is the initial cost without any interest added;
the compensation amount, plus the cost of the inspection, should be deducted from 
the final bill;
he should be given adequate time, after completion of the work, to make sure its 
inspected thoroughly and acceptable;
no final payment should be made until his credit score has been cleared of any 
defaults incurred by this situation; and
he will require a full written guarantee from the supplier that the remaining warranties 
will be valid and will be responded to if he needs to contact it regarding any future 
issues.
He also says that he feels that the compensation doesnt reflect the stress, worry and lost 
wages incurred and that he didnt request the fitter to leave the premises when the required 
goods didnt appear but they chose to leave saying that there was nothing they could do and 
they would be contacting head office to find out what would happen next. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says that he will accept my proposals regarding the repairs to the kitchen subject to 
the points that hes made but Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional 
findings.
The price that Mr W will pay for the kitchen will be determined by the terms of the fixed sum 
loan agreement, other than that the deferral period is extended until such time as the 
remedial works have been completed. The deferral period will end when the remedial works 
have been completed. Im not persuaded that the deferral period should be extended for any 
further period after completion of the work so that it can be inspected.
The compensation that will be payable to Mr W and the reimbursement of the cost of the 
inspection reports are separate from the amount thats repayable under the loan agreement. 
I dont consider that it would be appropriate for the compensation and the reimbursement to 
be deducted from the amount due from Mr W under the loan agreement. If Mr W wants to 
use those amounts to reduce the amount due from him under the loan agreement, I suggest 
that he contacts Novuna Personal Finance to discuss his options for making such a 
payment.
My decision will be binding on Novuna Personal Finance and it will be required to arrange 
and pay for all of the issues with the kitchen that have been identified in any of the inspection 
reports to be remedied but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require it to provide any further guarantee or warranty from the supplier  any warranty and 
guarantee for the kitchen will be on the terms that Mr W agreed with the supplier when he ordered the kitchen.
Novuna Personal Finance will be required to remove any adverse information relating to the 
loan agreement that its recorded on Mr Ws credit file. Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to allow Mr W not to make any payments that become due under the 
loan agreement until the adverse information has been removed.
I consider that the compensation for the disruption that Ive said should be paid by Novuna 
Personal Finance is fair and reasonable and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay any more compensation than that to Mr W. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Novuna Personal 
Finance to take the actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and order Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc, 
trading as Novuna Personal Finance, to:
1. Arrange and pay for all of the issues with the kitchen that have been identified in any 
of the inspection reports to be remedied.
2. Pay £1,000 to Mr W to compensate him for the disruption that hes been caused and 
the further disruption that hes likely to suffer.
3. Extend the deferral period under the loan agreement until such time as the remedial 
works have been completed.
4. Remove any adverse information relating to the loan agreement that its recorded on 
Mr Ws credit file.
5. Pay £150 to Mr W to reimburse him for the cost of the April 2022 inspection report. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman