DRN-2092639
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr J payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2008. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr J has said the PPI was added without his knowledge. However, it wouldnt be fair for me 
to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. Where 
someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness 
requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago. And the documents from the time do refer to 
PPI, including forms that Mr J had to sign for the PPI application to go ahead, and to 
authorise a direct debit for the premium  although I accept that these may have been just 
presented to Mr J to sign without a proper explanation. But without stronger evidence, I cant 
fairly say the PPI was added without Mr Js knowledge or informed consent.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr J, and this means we would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Js particular 
circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable one, 
based on what Ive seen of Mr Js situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr J was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI could have paid benefits if Mr J fell sick or lost his work  and as a self-
employed person he wouldnt have had the sick pay and redundancy pay that an 
employed person would have had. And it seems Mr J didnt have significant savings 
or other means of support to fall back on  and if he did, the PPI would have put off 
the time when Mr J would need to fall back on these. So, PPI would have put Mr J in 
a more secure position.
Mr J was self-employed at the time, and believes this means he wouldnt have been 
able to claim easily. This was certainly true for some types of PPI. But Ive looked at 
the terms of the policy, and he would have been eligible to make a claim  and this 
particular policy didnt make it particularly difficult to claim, even if you were self-
employed.
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr J would 
have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained the costs and benefits of the policy  there was a 
reference to the premium on a document that seems to have been attached to the direct 
debit form Mr J signed. But Im not sure how clear that was presented to Mr J. However, I 
think its unlikely that fuller and clearer information about costs would have affected whether 
Mr J took the PPI. I say this because he wouldnt have had sick and redundancy pay as a 
self-employed person; so, in his circumstances, its unlikely better information would have 
changed how useful the PPI would have seemed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman