DRN-1942853
The complaint
Mr A has complained about F Wilson (Insurance Brokers) Ltd trading as Quoteline Directs 
service in connection with a roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Quoteline Direct sold Mr A a roadside assistance policy. The policy was underwritten by an 
insurer which is a separate business to Quoteline Direct.
Mr A complained that Quoteline Direct didn't pay him a cashback sum when he took out the 
policy through a cashback provider online. He also complained about the service he 
received when he claimed on the policy.
Quoteline Direct told Mr A that the sale of the policy hadn't been routed to it through the 
cashback site, so it hadn't paid the associated cashback sum. But, as a gesture of goodwill, 
it paid him £5.75 which is the amount of cashback he would have received if the sale had 
been routed to it through the cashback site.
Quoteline Direct also told Mr A that it wasn't responsible for the service he received in 
connection with the breakdown claim. It directed him to complain to the insurer.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it but he didn't think 
Quoteline Direct had done anything wrong. Mr A didn't agree so his complaints been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
Mr A says he bought the policy with the assistance of an online cashback provider that 
reimburses some of the costs when policies are bought through its service. Quoteline Direct 
has explained that the online code, which tells it the site the policy was bought from, wasn't 
the code for the cashback provider. So Mr A didn't receive the cashback sum initially. But, as 
a gesture of goodwill, Quoteline Direct paid Mr A the sum he would have received if the 
policy had been sold using the cashback providers details. 
Mr A remains unhappy with that explanation because he believed hed bought the policy 
through the cashback provider and he didn't receive the cashback sum within the timeframe 
the cashback provider sets out. But I haven't seen any evidence, beyond Mr As comments, 
that Quoteline Direct did anything wrong. The evidence I've seen is that Quoteline Direct 
wasn't notified of the sale from the cashback provider but from a different online site. And in 
those circumstances I don't think Quoteline Direct was under any obligation to provide the 
cashback sum at all. But it paid that amount to Mr A as a goodwill gesture. That wasn't 
something it had to do. So Im satisfied it responded reasonably to Mr As complaint about 
this issue.
Mr A also complained that he hasn't received a suitable response to his complaint about the 
service he received when he claimed on his roadside assistance policy. Quoteline Direct is a 
broker not an insurer. That means it sells policies and might help with their administration but 
it's not responsible for the cover those policies provide, as that's the responsibility of the 
relevant insurer. And the insurer of Mr As roadside assistance policy is an entirely separate 
business to Quoteline Direct. 
I can see that Quoteline Direct explained this to Mr A and gave him details of how he could 
redirect his complaint to the insurer. Mr A remains unhappy that the insurer hadnt 
responded to his satisfaction. But Quoteline Direct isn't in any way responsible for the 
insurers actions, regardless that Mr A first raised his complaint about the insurers service 
with it. So I don't hold Quoteline Direct responsible for Mr As dissatisfaction with the 
insurers response to his complaint about the breakdown claim.
I understand that Mr As invested a significant amount of time in pursuing his concerns. But 
as I don't think Quoteline Direct has done anything wrong I don't think it needs to 
compensate Mr A for any inconvenience he might have experienced as a result. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman