DRN-3681064
The complaint
Mr V complains that Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse money he paid to a third 
party using his credit card for an event that didnt go ahead.
What happened
Mr V used his Nationwide credit card as part-payment to A for the hire of a venue and 
facilities connected with a family wedding. The arrangements required a pre-wedding event, 
required to take place within a couple of days of the wedding itself. Mr V and his wife (in 
whose name the booking was made) paid a total of £1,250 as a deposit using their 
respective cards.
Unfortunately, the booking fell within the period when the country was affected by the Covid-
19 pandemic restrictions. The family were unable to go ahead with the original arrangements 
or a rearranged date. When they were able to successfully rearrange the wedding date, As 
venue was unavailable during the two-day window.
Mr V sought to recover his deposit from A, saying the contract had been frustrated. But A 
said the deposit was non-refundable and that it went towards costs it incurred in connection 
with the booking arrangements. A said that this was consistent with Competition and 
Markets Authority (CMA) guidance issued in relation to contracts affected by Covid-19, 
which Mr V had referenced in his correspondence. A offered to issue Mr V a credit note to 
use against a future booking. But Mr V said he no longer required use of the venue
As Mr V paid using his Nationwide credit card, he approached Nationwide to get the money 
back. He felt the matter should be covered by the connected lender liability provisions of 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). But Nationwide said it was only 
liable where there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract. It didnt consider 
what had happened amounted to either of these things. Nationwide went on to say that it 
had liaised with A, who was still willing to offer alternative dates or a credit note. Mr V was 
unhappy with the situation and complained to Nationwide, and subsequently to us.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had dealt with Mr V unfairly. It had received his 
section 75 claim and set out why it didnt consider it had any liability to him. The investigator 
examined the terms of the contract with A. He noted that the circumstances in Mr Vs case 
were such that A hadnt made any misrepresentation or breached its contract. And while 
Nationwide didnt appear to have attempted to recover the payment using the chargeback 
process, the investigator didnt think the circumstances suggested such a claim would have 
been successful. A had remained willing to provide its services and this would have been a 
valid defence under the chargeback process. 
Mr V didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He felt that the prevailing circumstances of 
the pandemic made it unreasonable for A to rely on the non-refundable nature of the deposit. 
He also pointed to the specific event the venue had been booked for, and said that because 
A's venue wasnt available at the material time ahead of the revised wedding date, a future 
booking or credit note was of no use. He has asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr Vs upset. He and his wife have paid money for something they havent 
been able to make use of. Theyre currently out of pocket and their strength of feeling is 
clear. That said, I can only fairly expect Nationwide to reimburse the money if it was in some 
way responsible for Mr Vs loss  perhaps due to the way in which it handled his request for 
assistance, or because of some other liability it has accrued.
Mr V used a credit card to pay A in relation to the booking. The overall cost meets the 
financial limits of section 75. In simple terms, section 75 means if Mr V has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against A, he has the same claim against 
Nationwide. I can see that Nationwide recognised this potential liability. However, it 
concluded that A hadnt misrepresented the position or breached the contract. As such, 
Nationwide didnt accept it had any liability to Mr V.
I accept Nationwides position in respect of its potential liability under section 75. Indeed, I 
note that Mr V didnt originally seek to argue that the contract was breached; rather, that it 
had been frustrated  it was incapable of being performed  due to the pandemic 
restrictions. I fully recognise the impact those restrictions had on the way Mr and Mrs V had 
intended to use the venue. The restrictions on large gatherings that were imposed meant 
they didnt want to go ahead with the arrangements on the original dates. They were 
subsequently unable to find a date when As venue was available that would correspond with 
the revised wedding date that was set.
But that isnt the same as saying A failed to perform its contractual obligation. It appears to 
have been willing throughout to offer alternative dates. Mr V has described that those dates 
didnt correspond with the new wedding date. But that was something Mr V would have been 
able to take into account when making the revised wedding arrangements. The fact the new 
wedding date meant the pre-wedding event couldnt take place at As venue within the 
timescale Mr V had is unlikely to amount to a breach of contract on As part.
The government guidance relating to the pandemic restrictions made no provision for 
customers to be entitled to a refund in the circumstances at play here. Its possible that 
following the government advice might amount to the contract being frustrated rather than 
breached, as Mr V has suggested. That isnt clear-cut, given that it might well have been 
capable of being performed at a later date, had Mr V co-ordinated the new wedding date 
with the venues availability. But I dont need to consider this aspect further in the context of 
a section 75 claim, as this doesnt cover frustrated contracts.
With this in mind, I dont believe it would be right for me to find that Nationwide treated Mr V 
unfairly in declining to meet the section 75 claim. Thats not to say that Mr V might not be 
able to persuade a court that he should receive a refund, depending on the arguments 
made. As I understand it, the position taken by A hasnt been tested in a court of law. Its not 
for me to venture an opinion on any prospect of success Mr V might have should he seek to 
progress a legal claim. Given the lack of clarity around the subject matter (and the possible 
costs involved) Mr V should take independent legal advice if this is something he intends to 
pursue.
The other mechanism available to Nationwide to recover Mr Vs payment to A was through 
the chargeback process, which enables  in certain circumstances  cardholders to resolve 
disputes they have with suppliers. To do this, a card issuer needs to instigate a chargeback 
claim, under a suitable reason code, submitting what it has been told in evidence.But the rules under which Nationwide is able to make a chargeback claim also permit A to 
defend it. And A had already made its position clear to Mr V in his initial efforts to obtain a 
refund of the deposit money. It said that Mr V wasnt entitled to a refund, referencing the 
CMA guidance and relevant law on frustrated contracts. I cant see why A would have taken 
a different stance had Nationwide sought to pursue the matter via chargeback, and so I find 
Mr V was not disadvantaged by the fact Nationwide didnt look to pursue a chargeback.
My final decision
I do sympathise with Mr V and his familys situation, and I hope hes able to reach a fair 
resolution with A. But it isnt within my power to resolve that dispute.
Having reviewed matters I dont think theres any basis on which I could say Nationwide 
Building Society has dealt with Mr V in a way that might suggest it would be fair for it to 
refund him, or pay him compensation. So my final decision is that I cant uphold his 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman