DRN-3616434
The complaint
Mr K complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr K was given a guarantor loan by UK Credit in January 2018. He borrowed £10,000 and 
agreed to repay this over 60 months. The guarantor for this loan was Mr Ks father. Mr K has 
now repaid this loan.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr K before it agreed to lend. It asked Mr K 
about his income and expenditure. It called Mr K to discuss his income and expenditure. It 
carried out a credit check and used this to work out his credit commitments. Those checks 
suggested Mr K had enough disposable income each month to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr K was entering into a significant commitment with UK Credit. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 5 years. So, I think it is right that UK Credit wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ks financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think UK Credits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what UK Credit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that UK Credit conducted. The search showed that Mr K 
had a credit card, 2 payday loans and a relatively large hire purchase agreement. The two 
payday loans had only recently been obtained. I can see that Mr K was meeting his credit 
repayments when they fell due and overall didnt have too much that UK Credit ought to 
have been concerned about from what was on the search.
I have also listened to a call between the parties, where UK Credit went through the credit 
search and also asked Mr K about her income and expenditure. Mr K told UK Credit that he 
was going to use the loan for debt consolidation. He mentioned two further loans that he was 
looking to pay off that had not been listed on the credit search, these being a loan with a 
balance of £3200 and another with a balance of £1300. He said he was also going to pay off 
the credit card and the 2 payday loans. He also told it he had taken out the payday loans for 
one off purchases and wouldnt be taking anymore out. I think it is reasonable for UK Credit 
to rely on what he has said here.
Mr K was living at home and told UK Credit that he contributed about £250 to the household. 
I think when I consider how much Mr Ks declared monthly income was, and how little he 
declared to UK Credit he had in essential spend, I think the credit he had taken out was 
affordable for him. The repayment on the remaining hire purchase agreement and the 
repayment for this loan did represent a fairly sizable proportion of his monthly income. But in 
the circumstances, I have already described, on balance, I think the loan was sustainably 
affordable for him.
I appreciate that Mr Ks financial situation could have been worse than my assessment 
above might suggest. But I think that the checks UK Credit performed were proportionate 
and didnt suggest that Mr K was facing any current problems in managing his finances. I 
think UK Credit was entitled to rely on what Mr K said about his finances, and what he 
intended to use the loan for. And that information suggested that he would be able to 
sustainably afford the repayments on the loan. So, I dont currently think UK Credit was 
wrong to give the loan to Mr K.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. UK Credit responded and said it has no further comments. Mr K 
did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UK Credit has not made any additional points and Mr K has not responded. So, as neither 
party has anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within 
my provisional decision. With that being the case, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman