DRN-2881287
The complaint
Miss A complains Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly closed her accounts and caused 
unnecessary delay to her accessing her funds. She says she wasnt told why her accounts 
were closed and was made to feel like a criminal. She wants compensation for the 
inconvenience, upset and embarrassment she was caused.  
What happened
Miss A held a current account and an ISA account with Barclays which she opened in 2008. 
The accounts were dormant until Miss A received a payment from her husband to her ISA 
account in 2019. The payment didnt meet HMRCs ISA rules, so the funds were transferred 
to her current account.
Miss A received a letter from Barclays, telling her accounts would close the next day. She 
rang Barclays, who refused to provide her with a reason for its decision.
Miss A went to her Barclays branch to withdraw her money but was told she couldnt 
withdraw the funds until she provided proof of entitlement. She explained the payment was 
from her husbands company. Her husband then wrote a letter explaining why he was 
making the payment and presented it in branch. But Miss A says the letter was refused by 
the branch manager due to her husband not being the account holder.
Miss A complained to Barclays. Barclays upheld her complaint in part. It said it shouldnt 
have closed her account immediately. Instead, it should have given her 62 days notice, so 
she could make other arrangements. It offered her £350 for the trouble she had been 
caused. Miss A rejected the offer as she felt she should receive more in compensation.
Miss A went into branch to collect her funds again. She says she was asked questions on 
her employment history in the United Kingdom. She said this was unnecessary as she was 
told all she needed to bring was her identification. She felt mistreated and discriminated 
against based on her race.
Miss A referred her complaint to our service. An investigator considered the complaint and 
decided not Barclays didnt need to pay her more than the £350 it had already offered. They 
found Barclays didnt need to tell her why her accounts were closed.
Unhappy with the outcome the investigator reached, Miss A asked for a final decision from 
an ombudsman, so her complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss As complaint in part, but I am not going to require Barclays to 
pay any further compensation than recommended by the investigator. I understand Miss A 
will be disappointed by decision. So, Ill explain why:
Barclays can decide to terminate its relationship with a customer. This could be for a 
wide variety of reasons, commercial or otherwise. It does have this discretion and the 
terms of Miss As account also reflect this. Barclays isnt under any legal or 
regulatory obligation I know of which requires it to disclose its reasons to Miss A. 
Barclays shouldnt base its decision to close an account on something improper, 
such as reasons which are discriminatory. And it should ensure it applies the correct 
notice period under the account terms.
Ive considered the basis of Barclays decision to close Miss As account and I find it 
was legitimate. Miss A understandably wants to know Barclays reason(s), but I am 
not going to reveal them by virtue of her making this complaint. I understand Miss A 
believes the reason(s) are due to the money she received from her husband, but I 
havent found the evidence points to this being the case.
Barclays admits it got things wrong when communicating the closure of Miss As 
accounts. It shouldnt have closed them immediately. Instead it should have given 
Miss A a longer contractual notice period, which wouldve allowed her to withdraw 
her funds without experiencing the problems she did. I agree Barclays made a 
mistake and unfortunately Miss A bore its effects.
My role as an ombudsman is not to award compensation to fine or punish Barclays 
for its error. Instead, this is the remit of the regulators, the Financial Conduct 
Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority. What I must consider is what is fair 
and reasonable redress in all the circumstances of Miss As complaint. 
I have investigated the reason(s) for Barclays decision to close her account, and Im 
satisfied they werent based on any protected characteristic Miss A has. I understand 
why Barclays wanted to review her accounts, particularly as they were dormant for a 
long time and a sudden payment was received.
Miss A says the manager at the branch where she collected her money asked her 
questions about her employment history. Miss A had been told all she needed to 
bring was identification. So, I fail to understand why questions of this type were 
necessary. Considering Barclays made a mistake regarding the notice they gave 
Miss A, I find the additional questions Miss A was asked likely stemmed from the 
same mistake.
On balance, I find £350 is a fair and reasonable sum to compensate Miss A for the 
poor service she experienced and the embarrassment she was caused. Ive borne in 
mind how someone feels after receiving poor service is a subjective matter. So, I 
dont doubt Miss A was very upset, challenged and inconvenienced by what 
happened. And Im sorry this happened to her.
I dont find a larger sum would be proportionate given the size of the actual sum Miss 
A was prevented from accessing. I havent seen evidence to show not accessing the 
funds earlier meant she couldnt pay bills or meet her general living costs. Its clear 
the accounts werent used for her everyday spending. And given the payment into 
her ISA account was referenced as start up loan, I dont think the funds were 
earmarked for everyday expenses.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Miss A £350 no later than 28 days of her accepting this final decision, 
should she accept it. This is also contingent on Miss A providing alternative account payment details to Barclays in good time .
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Miss As complaint and I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay 
redress according to my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman