DRN-1686446
 
The complaint
Mr A says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in April 2004 when he took out a loan. 
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out in April 2004 in connection 
with a secured personal loan. Mr A took out a loan for just over £17,000 to be repaid over 25 
years. The policy was added to Mr As account when he applied for the loan. The policy cost 
£11.68 each month and would, following a successful claim, have paid a monthly benefit of 
£124.25 for up to 60 months in the event Mr A couldnt work because of accident or 
sickness, or 12 months in the event of unemployment. The loan was repaid in June 2006.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because:
 
I think Halifax made Mr A aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take 
it. Ive seen a copy of Mr As Personal Loan Agreement which was given to him to 
check, sign and have witnessed before he returned it to the bank. Ive noted that the 
option of PPI was selected and that Mr A then signed the agreement and had the 
paperwork witnessed by someone known to him. I can see that it would have been 
possible to choose to proceed without PPI, and that this option (not taking PPI) was 
presented equally prominently.
 
Ive considered the fact that the Loan Agreement is typed, but considering this was 
an advised sale, conducted over the telephone, Im persuaded that the details, 
including Mr As name and address together with the loan particulars were filled in by 
the bank during its discussion with him before the paperwork was printed and sent to 
him to review and sign.
 
So taking everything into consideration, I think Mr A knew the PPI was optional and I think 
he chose to purchase it. 
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr A, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time; Mr A told us that he 
had some sick pay from his employer that would provide protection in the event that 
he couldnt work due to accident or sickness, and he told us he had some savings. 
But he was borrowing more than £17,000 and had chosen to repay it over 25 years  
so I dont think its likely that his savings were either significant or accessible. And 
there wouldve been serious implications if Mr A were unable to meet his repayments 
 he was solely responsible for repaying the loan, and hed secured the loan against 
his home. Accordingly, Im satisfied that recommending this policy wasnt unsuitable.
 
Its possible the information Halifax provided about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr A chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. Mr A wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
that mightve made it more difficult to make a successful claim  he told us he was 
employed and in good health. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. The loan agreement signed by Mr A records the cost of the policy as 
£11.68 per month and, as a regular premium, it could be cancelled at any point if Mr 
A decided he no longer wanted protection or could no longer afford it. So I think it 
unlikely he wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr A and his representative have said, but these points dont 
change my decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman