DRN-3836843
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society allowed an unauthorised direct debit to be set 
up on their account and didnt respond appropriately when they asked about it. 
What happened
In June 2022 Mr H noticed a direct debit payment was being made to a third party that they 
had not set up. He visited his local branch and found staff to be unhelpful. He went to a 
different branch the following day and the manager confirmed the direct debit had been in 
place for 10 months. He recognised the poor service from the other branch and paid Mr and 
Mrs H £25 compensation for this. Nationwide then investigated the direct debit and 
confirmed all payments made would be refunded. It offered a further £50 compensation 
which Mr and Mrs H declined. They say they have lost confidence in Nationwide and its 
ability to prevent this happening again - they say they asked about opening a new account 
but were told this would be complicated. They were also unhappy with its final response 
letter which just summarised the issue as resolved.
After they brought their complaint to this service Nationwide accepted that it could have 
provided better service  it had initially only refunded 10 out of the 11 payments made and it 
had not given Mr and Mrs H a proper explanation as to what had most likely happened, or 
reassured than that in such scenarios they would always be protected by the direct debit 
guarantee. It offered to increase the compensation for its poor service after the event to 
£100 (so £125 in total). It explained how direct debits are set up, saying Nationwide is the 
third party and the payment details are something agreed between a beneficiary and its 
customer directly. So it is most likely the beneficiary misread an account number given to it, 
or another of its customers gave it the wrong account number.
Our investigator found Nationwides revised offer to be a fair settlement. He found that the 
direct debit was not set up in error by Nationwide  he agreed either the beneficiary or 
another customer of the beneficiary most likely made an error that resulted in the direct debit 
being put in place. Nationwide has now refunded all payments, but he agreed it should have 
provided better service when Mr H asked about the direct debit. However he felt its offer to 
pay a further £100 compensation was proportionate. And according to Nationwides notes Mr 
and Mrs H were happy to continue with their existing account.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. They 
said they hadnt agreed they were happy to continue with the same account, rather 
Nationwide said it would be complicated to open a new one and switch all their regular 
payments. They think the odds are high that there was a Nationwide error and that a digit 
was mis-keyed. Other banks send their accountholders a text alert when a new direct debit 
is set up, Nationwide ought to do the same.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
It is no longer in dispute that Nationwide should have provided a better level of service when 
Mr H asked about the unauthorised direct debit. Or that it should have given better 
information to help Mr and Mrs H understand how this could have happened. But I find the 
further £100 compensation it has offered to be fair in the circumstances. I have thought 
about the duration and impact of its failings to make this decision.
Mr and Mrs H suggest it could easily have been Nationwides error that meant the direct 
debit was set up incorrectly on their account, but given direct debit mandates are now sent to 
banks and building societies electronically I think it is more likely the error occurred earlier in 
the instruction process. 
They also suggested Nationwide ought to have an alert process in place to notify 
accountholders when a new direct debit is set up on an account. And whilst I can see why 
they made this recommendation it is not something I can instruct Nationwide to do. We do 
not have the powers to review and recommend improvements to a business systems, 
processes or policies  that is the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
I note there was a discrepancy between Nationwides contact notes regarding Mr and       
Mrs Hs level of comfort in keeping their existing account and how they felt. But this does not 
change my conclusion about the fair outcome to their complaint for the reasons set out 
above. I have seen no evidence that this issue was triggered by any underlying vulnerability 
in the security of their account.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in part. Nationwide Building Society should now  
pay the additional £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman