DRN-3253627
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding the 
switching of his current account to HSBC.
What happened
Mr D applied to switch his current account into HSBC. Mr D had been told by HSBC that in 
doing so he would be eligible to receive £140 resulting from an incentive that HSBC were 
running at that time. However, when Mr D later asked HSBC about this, he was told that he 
didnt qualify for the incentive as he hadnt applied for the switch via the required channel.
Mr D wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy with the service hed received from 
HSBC surrounding the current account switch, including that a sizeable transfer hed tried to 
make into his new HSBC account had been blocked by HSBC. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Ds complaint. They acknowledged theyd mistakenly told Mr D hed be 
eligible for the incentive, and so they made a payment of £140 to Mr D because of this. 
HSBC also confirmed to Mr D that the blocking of the transfers into his account had been 
because theyd been flagged by their automated fraud protection system. HSBC apologised 
to Mr D for the inconvenience hed incurred in this regard but confirmed that they felt that the 
employment of such a system was necessary.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, and felt that the level of trouble and upset hed 
incurred hadnt been sufficiently considered. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that HSBCs payment of £140 to 
Mr D was a fair resolution of that aspect of Mr Ds complaint. And while our investigator 
acknowledged that Mr D had been inconvenienced by the blocking of the transfers and other 
incidents that had taken place during the switch process, they didnt feel that the degree of 
inconvenience that Mr D had experienced was unreasonable or that it warranted any 
payment of compensation by HSBC to Mr D. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how Mr D might have been frustrated, having been initially told by HSBC 
that he was eligible to receive £140 pertaining to a current account switch incentive, that he 
was later told by HSBC that he wasnt in fact eligible to benefit from that incentive. 
In their response to Mr Ds complaint, HSBC acknowledged that theyd made an incorrect 
promise to Mr D about his eligibility for the incentive, and as a result they made a payment of 
£140 to Mr D in order to honour the promise theyd made to him and to ensure that he wasnt 
adversely impacted by the incorrect information hed been given. HSBCs corrective actions 
here seem reasonable to me, and Im satisfied that they provide a fair resolution to this 
aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D is also unhappy about the service he received from HSBC surrounding the current 
account switch, including that transfers he tied to make to the new HSBC account were 
blocked by HSBCs fraud protection systems. And Mr D has explained that at the times that 
the transfers were blocked he was concerned that HSBCs actions in blocking the transfers 
had caused his money to go missing. 
I can appreciate Mr Ds concerns here, but its not uncommon for transfers such as the one 
that Mr D was attempting to be flagged for further security checks by a financial institution 
such as HSBC. Indeed, given that HSBC, like all current account providers, have an 
obligation to have such fraud protection systems in place  as part of a wider obligation 
financial institutions have to adequately protect their customers and other consumers 
money  I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably censure HSBC for employing such 
measures in this instance.
As such, while I acknowledge that Mr D has incurred a degree of inconvenience here, the 
security obligations that surround the transfer of money can unfortunately mean that an 
unavoidable degree of trouble and inconvenience is necessary in certain situations. And I 
feel that this is the case in this instance. 
Mr D is also unhappy that part of HSBCs fraud protection process involved him being sent a 
message asking him to contact HSBC as a matter or urgency, but that when he did then 
immediately attempt to contact HSBC their telephone lines were closed. This led to Mr D 
worrying overnight that something had happened to his money.
It's understandable that Mr D might have been concerned here, but it wouldnt be expected 
that HSBC would maintain an open telephone line beyond their stated opening hours. And I 
note that when Mr D did contact HSBC the following morning that the matter was explained 
to him by HSBC and the necessary steps taken to approve the transfer that Mr D was 
attempting. 
Additionally, while I appreciate that Mr D may have been concerned that his money might 
have gone missing, I dont feel that this risk was a tangible one, given that a record of his 
attempted transfer was recorded with both HSBC and the originating bank. And I dont feel 
that HSBC should be instructed to pay any form of compensation to Mr D as a result. 
Finally, Im aware that Mr D is unhappy with the length of time HSBC took to respond to his 
complaint. However, as the Financial Ombudsman Service, this services remit is limited to 
complaints about financial services. And, given that how a company handles a complaint  
including a complaint about a financial service  isnt itself a financial service, this means 
that it isnt within the remit of this service to consider that aspect of Mr Ds complaint.
All of which means that, while I can understand Mr Ds concerns here, I dont feel that HSBC 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D such that any form of action is merited 
from HSBC above and beyond the actions that HSBC have already taken in their response 
to Mr Ds complaint. And it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr D was wanting, but I hope that hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman