DRN-2864955
The complaint
Miss K complains about the service that shes received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
in relation to replacement bank cards that have been sent to her.
What happened
Miss K contacted NatWest in February 2021 because shed lost the debit card for her bank 
account. A replacement card was ordered for her that day and was sent to her the next day 
 but she didnt receive it. She contacted NatWest and it ordered another replacement card 
that was sent to her  but that also wasnt received. A third replacement card was sent to 
Miss K in March 2021. Miss K complained to NatWest in March 2021 that she was unable to 
pay her bills without her card and it was explaining alternative ways that she could do so 
when the call was cut-off.
Miss K complained to this service but our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint 
should be upheld. He said that he empathised with the situation that Miss K had experienced 
and the difficulty that shed had in maintaining her finances without a bank card - but he said 
that NatWest had acted fairly by issuing the replacement cards immediately and it was likely 
that they werent received due to being lost in the post, which NatWest had no control over.
Miss K has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman and says that she 
should receive some compensation from NatWest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
its clear that there have been issues with the replacement debit cards for Miss Ks 
account that have been sent to her since she reported that shed lost her debit card 
in February 2021;
NatWest ordered a replacement debit card the day that Miss Ks original debit card 
was marked as lost and it has provided evidence to show that it was sent to her the 
next day  but she didnt receive it;
it then sent another replacement debit card to her but that also wasnt received;
it sent a third replacement debit card to her in March 2021 which she received and 
has been able to use;
although I can understand the frustration and difficulties that Miss K will have 
experienced when she didnt have a debit card, I consider that NatWest has provided 
enough evidence to show that it sent replacement cards to her and Im not 
persuaded that it was at fault for them not being received;
Miss K received the third replacement card that was sent to her  and NatWests 
records show that it was sent to her 21 days after the original card was marked as 
lost;
its records also show that it phoned Miss K two days after that card had been sent to 
her, in response to her request for it to do so, and was explaining alternative ways 
that she could make payments from her account  but the call was cut-off;
I sympathise with Miss K for the issues that shes experienced with the replacement 
debit cards and for the other difficulties that shes described, but Im not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that NatWest has acted incorrectly in these 
circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require NatWest to pay any 
compensation to Miss K or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman