DRN-2640769
The complaint
Ms H complains Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) were irresponsible when granting 
two credit card accounts to her.
What happened
Ms H had two credit cards with Capital One, the first approved in April 2016 and the second 
in October 2017. Ms H says at the time she applied for the credit cards it would have been 
clear to Capital One she had previously  defaulted credit card accounts. Ms H says this 
shows Capital One didnt carry out adequate credit checks and have lent to her 
irresponsibly. Ms H wants Capital One to refund all interest and charges on both credit card 
accounts. 
Capital One says they completed all the relevant checks required, including obtaining 
information such as salary, credit file data and reviewing previous accounts held with them 
and dont feel they have lent irresponsibly. 
Ms H wasnt happy with Capital Ones response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Capital One had carried out sufficient and proportionate checks before 
agreeing the credit cards and the increase in one of the credit card limits. 
Ms H wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision. 
When looking at this case I have considered if Capital One carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks when providing Ms H with a credit card  and in doing so, made a fair 
decision to provide the credit card limit and subsequent increases it did, based on the 
information it had seen.
What happened here was Ms H applied for a credit card with Capital One in April 2016. Ms 
H says at the time she applied for the credit card she was already in financial difficulties and 
had defaulted accounts outstanding and an ongoing issue with another credit card provider. 
Its worth mentioning there are no fixed rules on what reasonable and proportionate checks a 
business, like Capital One, must carry out before agreeing to provide credit to its customers. 
Here, Capital One says they undertook a series of checks including a credit reference 
search and while this showed defaulted accounts including one to Capital One, this had 
been settled and the others werent recent to the application. Capital One also says the 
subsequent increase to the credit card from £1500 to £1750 was based again on their 
affordability checks and evidence Ms H had met her previous minimum payments in full and 
on time. Capital One says when a new credit card was approved in October 2017 this was 
on the understanding her income and employment status hadnt changed from her previous 
application and there were no new defaulted accounts. Capital One says based on this 
information the credit card borrowing was affordable. 
I understand the points that Capital One have made, and while I can see they did obtain a 
reasonable amount of information on which to make their decision, there was more they 
could have done here when looking at the information presented to them. The reason I say 
this is Capital One have accepted there were previously three defaulted accounts, but these 
werent recent to the application from Ms H. I understand that a previous history of defaulted 
accounts, in itself wouldnt necessarily prevent future borrowing. That said, in this case, from 
the spreadsheet of the credit search provided to this service by Capital One, two of those 
defaulted accounts are shown to have outstanding balances at the time of Ms Hs credit card 
application. These accounts have been included in the amount of outstanding debt of around 
£4000 Capital One refer to in their final response letter, so that suggests the total borrowing 
she had at the time wasnt potentially without issues. I would have expected Capital One to 
have made further enquiries about this with Ms H, bearing in mind in addition to this, there 
was also a  background of a defaulted account with them a few years previously and 
although since settled, should have prompted a more forensic approach here.  
What is important, is on a recent credit search provided to this service, it shows a debt to 
another credit card provider. This is at the time the initial credit card was approved by Capital 
One, this other credit card had borrowing double that of the limit for several months leading 
up to her credit card application, and permanently in excess for nearly two years prior to that. 
Capital One have said they took this into account but without any explanation how. While the 
credit file marks this as OK, at the very least, it should have prompted Capital One to have 
questioned this with Ms H to get a better understanding of her true financial commitments to 
see if Ms H met their credit appetite.  
Ms H has said at the time of applying for the credit card with Capital One she had borrowing 
with debt collection agencies although no documented evidence can be provided to support 
that, so I havent been able consider this when making my decision here. What is clear is 
that further questioning by Capital One would have in all likelihood produced a better 
understanding of those defaulted cases detailed in their own credit search spreadsheet and 
the issues sitting behind the long outstanding over limits, with the other credit card provider.
Its worth mentioning that collation of information is only one part of the process when 
considering affordability, its equally important to question and investigate it. I am satisfied 
that there were enough warning signs here to have made further enquires for the reasons I 
have already stated. 
If follows the decision to increase Ms Hs credit card and provide her with a new card cant 
be supported for the same reasons, as they are directly linked to the initial credit card being 
approved for Ms H. 
While Capital One will be disappointed with my decision, I uphold this complaint for Ms H. 
Capital One (Europe) plc should refund any interest and charges made to both credit cards 
issued to Ms H. 
Both Ms H and Capital One have responded saying that have nothing further to add to my 
provisional decision, so the case has been passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Ms H and Capital One until 27 February 2021 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision, but as neither party has anything further to add, I see no need to change or add to 
my provisional decision and so my final decision remains the same. 
Putting things right
I instruct Capital One (Europe) plc to refund any interest and charges made to both credit 
cards issued to Ms H. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Capital One (Europe) plc to refund any interest and charges made to both credit 
cards issued to Ms H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman