DRN-2679541
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Go Car Credit 
Limited isnt of satisfactory quality and Go Car Credit have terminated his agreement instead 
of allowing a rejection.
What happened
Mr W entered into a finance agreement for the purchase of a used BMW on 18 February 
2020. The car cost £7050 and had travelled around 62,000 at the point of supply. Mr W paid 
£550 deposit made up of £50 cash and £500 for his old car in part exchange. 
In April 2020 Mr W contacted Go Car Credit to explain that there were a number of faults 
with the car in relation to injectors, speakers, missing casing, engine and coolant leaks. The 
car was returned to the supplying dealership on the 19 May 2020 and some repairs were 
carried out. The car was returned to Mr W on 27 May 2020. The same day Mr W emailed Go 
Car Credit to advise that the faults remained on the car.
On 1 June 2020 the car was collected by the dealership and an MOT was carried out which 
reported no faults with the car. Mr W didnt accept that this was a satisfactory inspection and 
said he did not want to keep the car. Go Car Credit treated this as a voluntary termination 
and refunded Mr W £89.16 as a pro-rata amount of his monthly payment.
Mr W wasnt happy with this and wanted a return of his deposit as he rejected the car. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and thought that there were faults with the car and 
Mr W should be entitled to reject the car. Go Car Credit didnt agree and said that the MOT 
did not demonstrate any faults and that the car has been re-financed and there have been 
no reported problems.
As the parties havent been able to agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties and so I wont repeat them in detail in this decision. 
Instead I will focus on giving reasons for my decision.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) provides 30 days to reject the car if it is not of 
satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. I 
dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court would approach matters, but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable.
I can see that Mr W first raised issues with the car on 27 April 2020. Those faults were 
investigated, and the car was taken in for repairs. The same day that the car was returned to 
Mr W he emailed Go Car Credit to say that the faults were still present. Mr W has also 
provided a photograph showing a warning message on the dashboard.
Go Car Credit arranged for an MOT inspection. This is not the same as a diagnostic 
inspection and although no warning lights were illuminated at the time of the inspection, Im 
not persuaded that this is enough evidence to suggest that the car was fault free. This is 
because an MOT is not an inspection of a specific fault and so there was no diagnostic 
testing carried out. Similarly, the fact that the car has been re-financed with no issues does 
not mean that the fault was not present when the car was returned to Mr W.
There has been no comprehensive independent inspection to establish that the car was fault 
free in June 2020. Mr W has said that the faults remained after the repair and his actions in 
emailing the finance company the same day are consistent with car continuing to have a 
fault. The photograph taken by Mr W confirms his account. I have no reason to doubt what 
Mr W says and no evidence to confirm that the fault was not present other than the MOT 
inspection which is carried out for a different purpose.
For these reasons I think that the car did have faults which arose very soon after supply 
which would suggest that the faults were there or developing at the point of sale. The car 
continued to have faults after repairs were carried out and so I think Mr W should be entitled 
to reject the car with all the rights that a rejection involves. 
I also consider that Mr W should be compensated for the trouble and upset caused by the 
faulty car and the time he was without it for investigation and repair. I agree with the 
adjudicator that £100 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
To put things right Go Car Credit Limited should: 
1. If Mr W paid for the car to be collected following the termination, this fee
should be returned;
2. Go Car Credit should return Mr Ws deposit with 8% simple interest from the
date it was paid until its returned;
3. Go Gar Credit can retain monthly repayments for February, March and a partial
repayment for April to reflect the time Mr W had use of the car. All other monthly
repayments should be returned (if applicable);
4. Go Car Credit should pay Mr W £100 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Go Car Credit Limited should put things 
right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman