DRN-4381014
The complaint
Mr S complained, in his capacity as the appointed executor of the estate of Mrs S, about the 
service provided by Janus Henderson Fund Management UK Limited trading as Janus 
Henderson Investors (JH) in connection with the sale of a holding held within the estate and 
also about investment loss suffered by the estate.
To put things right, Mr S wanted JH to pay the estate compensation for financial loss.
What happened
Mrs S died in 2022 and Mr S is one of her appointed executors, with authority to bring a 
complaint on behalf of the estate. 
Grant of probate was issued on 5 September 2022.
On 22 September 2022, solicitors acting on behalf of Mr S wrote to JH enclosing the grant of 
probate along with a form of renunciation, signed by Mr S and dated 17 August 2022 
instructing the sale of Mrs Ss holding. The covering letter included the following wording:
Please arrange to sell the investments and send us a cheque for the sale proceeds made 
payable to (the solicitors) as soon as possible.
Prior to proceeding with the instruction to encash, we would be grateful if you could 
telephone the writer to confirm on the number below. Please DO NOT PROCEED 
without first obtaining confirmation by telephone from the writer
JH received this letter on 26 September 2022.
The sale of Mrs Ss holding completed on 27 September 2022.
JH said it had acted on Mr Ss instructions and completed the sale in line with its terms and 
conditions. JH said it hadnt been able to discuss the transaction or accept any decision from 
the solicitor on whether the transaction should go ahead as the solicitor didnt hold any 
authority on the account. 
Our investigator was sympathetic but concluded that JH didnt need to do anything further to 
resolve the complaint as his view was, in summary that:
we cant punish a financial business or tell it how to operate
investment loss couldnt be established 
although JH could have done things better, we cannot award compensation for 
distress and inconvenience to an estate. 
Mr S felt this was an unfair outcome, saying in summary:
he had hoped to sell the holding sooner, when he thought a good sale price was 
achievable, but said JH refused until grant of probate was issued. 
JH was issued with instructions via his solicitor not to sell the holding automatically 
once grant of probate was issued and to contact either the estate or his solicitor 
before any sale. 
JH took it off their own backs to sell the holding There is no evidence provided to 
show what efforts it made to contact him. 
JH made no attempt to contact Mr Ss solicitor, despite the fact the grant of probate 
had been issued and his solicitors were acting as estate administrators.
The market falls were dramatic and widely reported  Mr S put things this way: even 
the most junior office clerk at JH would have recognised that caution in dealing was 
needed.
JHs failure to follow simple instructions caused considerable loss due to market 
conditions at the point of sale.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my first provisional decision
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
I sympathise with Mr S and I understand that whats happened has been upsetting and 
frustrating for him. Mr S put things this way: the business sold a significant shareholding 
without consulting the estate hence crystalising a loss. May I also add that they had been 
clearly instructed by my probate solicitors, a matter to which they have admitted, not to sell 
anything without said consultation and still took it on themselves to do so, On the day when 
the market had dropped by around 8%.
It seems to me that the main issue I have to decide is whether JH made an error or acted in 
a way that wasnt fair and reasonable and this resulted in the estate losing out financially. 
I must take into account the relevant law, regulatory requirements and best industry practice 
when deciding if JH did anything wrong. 
The relevant terms and conditions that applied to Mrs Ss holding include the following:
What happens to my investment on death?
Investments form part of your estate on death and on production of the Death 
Certificate and the Sealed Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration, may be sold 
or re-registered in the names of the Executors or Administrators of the Estate or a 
Beneficiary.
JH wasnt able to accept instructions to sell Mrs Ss holding until Mr S had the authority 
conferred by the grant of probate to act as personal representative and give instructions on 
behalf of the estate. So I cant uphold Mr Ss complaint on the basis that JH made any error 
when it didnt sell before it received the grant of probate. 
Once Mr Ss solicitor provided the grant of probate and the completed form of renunciation 
signed by Mr S, enabling JH to carry out Mr Ss selling instructions, the onus was on JH to 
proceed with the sale. Under the terms and conditions it was required to sell at the next 
available valuation point  essentially, this meant a sale should happen at the first 
opportunity.  
In his solicitors letter dated 22 September 2022, this appeared to be what Mr S had said he 
wanted to happen: Please arrange to sell the investments  as soon as possible.   I appreciate that Mr S says the later wording meant this was, in effect, a conditional 
instruction and JH should have phoned the solicitor before placing a trade and had regard 
to the simple instruction NOT TO PROCEED until his solicitor had given JH specific 
instructions to do so. But JH has said the solicitor wasnt the executor on the account and 
so JH had no process for contacting Mr Ss solicitors. 
A financial business is entitled to set its own terms of business and operating processes, so 
this isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. And I think it's fair for JH to say that the 
solicitors didnt have authority in any event to place (or countermand) Mr Ss selling 
instructions, as he was the executor. 
Whilst I can see there was some ambiguity in the solicitors letter sent on 22 September, 
I am not persuaded that JH made a mistake when it proceeded to carry out Mr Ss selling 
instructions in these circumstances. JH had a clear selling instruction from Mr S that it was 
required to follow once hed provided all the necessary paperwork. That instruction was 
confirmed in the solicitors letter, which asked for this to be carried out as soon as possible. 
So I dont find that JH did anything wrong when it didnt first contact Mr Ss solicitor before 
proceeding with the sale. 
Nonetheless, although I find JH acted in line with its terms and conditions, it still needed to 
act in a fair and reasonable way overall, and I've thought about this carefully. 
Given the way things were set out in the solicitors 22 September letter, I think this did put 
some onus on JH to try and contact Mr S to check he understood that JH was under 
instructions to sell at the next valuation point. JH has told me that it attempted to contact 
Mr S by phone. Mr S has questioned this, but I have no reason to doubt what it says about 
trying to reach him and I havent been provided with evidence, from Mr Ss phone records 
for instance, to show that what JH says about this isnt correct. I also think it's fair to say 
that as the solicitors letter arrived on 26 September and the next valuation point was the 
following day, opportunities to contact Mr S were limited.  
So JH needed to make a decision about whether to press ahead with the sale of Mrs Ss 
holding in these circumstances. It wouldve needed to weigh up the risks of not selling at the 
next valuation point as required by its terms and conditions and the fact that delay potentially 
risked investment loss against the fact it already held valid sale instructions  and the most 
recent correspondence gave JH no reason to think those instructions had been rescinded 
(indeed, the solicitors letter can be taken to suggest there might be some urgency to sell). 
Ive also kept in mind that if Mr S hadnt wanted to sell immediately, the terms and conditions 
gave him an option to re-register the investments held within the estate. He had a choice 
about whether to sell or not when he provided his sale instructions. 
All in all, I dont find that JHs decision to carry on with the sale was unfair or unreasonable. 
This means I must conclude that there are no grounds upon which to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. So I cannot award the redress he seeks.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mr S has said, including his 
comments made in response to the investigators view. But this doesnt affect the outcome. 
JH provided an execution only service here and it was required to implement instructions 
properly given  there was no obligation on JH to assess market conditions before carrying 
out a transaction and it didnt have any discretion to impose its own judgement on whether or 
not to sell. I cant fairly say that JH made a unilateral decision to sell Mrs Ss holding as it 
was acting on instructions from Mr S when it did this. I think its reasonable to assume that if Mr S had changed his mind and didnt want to sell, he could have contacted JH to stop the 
sale going ahead. 
I acknowledge that Mr S feels very strongly about his complaint. If I have not referred to 
each point hes raised its because I have nothing further I can usefully add to what our 
investigator has said already. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points 
that affect the outcome of his complaint. I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing 
for Mr S but I hope that setting things out as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my 
conclusions. 
When I said in my original provisional decision that there was an onus on JH to contact Mr S 
to verify his instructions before proceeding, I misinterpreted what JH had said about this. 
When it became clear that JH did not attempt to contact Mr S directly when it wasnt able to 
speak to the solicitors, I issued a second provisional decision. 
What I said in my second provisional decision
To my mind, there was a clear indication from the solicitors cover letter that there was a 
request not to proceed with selling until the executor or his representative had been 
consulted. 
JH had already accepted Mr Ss signed request that came with the cover letter from the 
solicitors, and it could see these were the solicitors that had obtained probate, so JH was 
well aware that these solicitors were already involved. Even if JH is correct on the question 
of the solicitors authority, looking at the bigger picture and considering its customers 
interests, I still think that JH ought to have tried to speak to Mr S first. 
Alternatively, JH could have phoned the solicitors to say it would require formal authority to 
be able to act on their instruction or that it would need to have direct contact with Mr S, in 
order to give effect to the solicitors request not to proceed without further discussion. The 
fact alone that the solicitors werent recorded on JHs records as the executor shouldnt have 
been an obstacle to JH doing this. 
This leads me to conclude that it wasnt fair or reasonable for JH to just go ahead with the 
sale of the fund when there was enough to indicate that this wasnt what Mr S wanted to 
happen. So it should have verified this first.
In coming to this conclusion, I've kept in mind that there is an argument for saying that had 
JH delayed selling and the markets had gone the other way, JH would potentially be open to 
a successful complaint that it ought to have acted promptly on the instruction it had received. 
But that wasnt the situation here (as I think JH would have known, as stockmarket falls were 
dramatic and widely publicised at the time) and this consideration isnt enough to persuade 
me that it would be fairer not to uphold this complaint. 
So I am now planning on upholding this complaint.
This brings me to the question of redress.
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach to redress. Briefly, I need to decide what I think is likely to have happened if JH 
had acted in a fair and reasonable way and contacted Mr S before proceeding with the sale 
and what the impact on the estate has been as a result of JH not doing this.
I asked Mr S to tell me, as far as he could now recall, what he would have told JH to do if 
hed been contacted in response to the solicitors letter and asked to confirm his selling intentions before JH proceeded to sell. And I invited him to say when he thought it was likely 
he would have asked JH to proceed with the sale.
Mr S said he had been watching the markets closely and was looking to sell the JH holdings 
in the estate, but he was also aware of the impact political decisions made at the time were 
having on market prices. He mentioned a mini-budget around this time having resulted in a 
market reduction of around 10% and told me that if JH had contacted him, he wouldve given 
instructions not to sell and wait and see how the market recovered. 
I can appreciate why Mr S might have wanted to hold off realising the estate assets 
temporarily. On the other hand, he would likely have also considered that as he couldnt say 
when the market would recover back to pre-budget levels, once there was some 
improvement, which happened relatively quickly, selling sooner rather than later might be 
one way he could minimise further losses in a volatile marketplace.  
Ive also taken into account that Mr S had already demonstrated to JH a clear intention to 
sell  he had originally wanted to sell much sooner, ahead of the grant of probate, when the 
market price was more favourable. And Im mindful that as the acting executor, the onus was 
on him to deal with probate and realise and distribute the estate assets. So I think it's fair to 
say that, irrespective of disappointing investment values, there was a real incentive and 
some pressure on Mr S to press ahead with selling.  
Clearly, no-one can say for certain what would have happened so Ive taken an approach 
that I consider to be fair to both parties in these particular circumstances. My intention is to 
put the estate, as near as possible, into the position it would broadly have been in, had JH 
checked with Mr S before proceeding to sell the investments held within the estate. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr S would have postponed selling, possibly for a few 
weeks. But after that, when the markets appeared to have stabilised to a degree, my own 
view is that Mr S would likely have decided to proceed with the sale. 
Whilst its difficult to pick specific points in time, I think its probable that a couple of weeks 
after the mini budget, by say 7 October 2022, Mr S could have been prompted to sell when 
there were signs the financial markets might be rallying, in some quarters at least. And by 
21 October 2022, I think Mr S would have likely been feeling that his priority had become 
finalising probate and wrapping up the estate before further upheaval in the financial 
markets. 
So I think a reasonable way to work out fair redress is to take the average price of the fund 
over this period (Ill call this the fair price) and compare this with the price that JH achieved 
on sale (Ill call this the actual price) to see whether or not the estate lost out in money 
terms. 
As Mr S brings this complaint in his capacity as executor, I have no power to award redress 
beyond making up any financial shortfall to the estate.What the parties said in response to my second provisional decision 
Mr S didnt agree with the fictional sale date I had suggested. He said there was absolutely 
no way I would have sold until the market had recovered and that he was able to pay the 
inland revenue and settle all other estate debts and he could quite categoricaly state that 
I would have held back on the sale of the JH holdings 
JH provided information showing unit price movements during the period 7 October 2022 to 
21 October 2022. 
As I have now heard from both parties, I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my 
review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Mr S that I've thought carefully about everything again before 
coming to my final decision. 
Mr S hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. 
Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. I appreciate that Mr S takes a different view to me  as of course, he is 
fully entitled to do. And I dont doubt that he is certain about what he says. But I have an 
obligation to be fair to both parties. It appears the relevant unit prices around this time 
showed limited movement only and, despite some recovery, they were consistently below 
the higher price that JH had achieved on sale. I am not persuaded that Mr S would have had 
any reason to expect that prices would be likely to recover significantly within any reasonably 
foreseeable period when the indications were to the contrary. So what Mr S has said isnt 
enough on its own to persuade me that the way I've suggested redress should be calculated 
isnt fair and reasonable, for all the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
JH should work out the average price of the holding held within the estate of Mrs S during 
the period 7 October 2022 to 21 October 2022 (the fair price).
JH should compare this with the price that JH achieved on sale (the actual price). 
If the actual price exceeds the fair price (so the estate is better off as a result of what 
happened) then no redress is due. If the fair price exceeds the actual price, then JH should 
pay the difference to Mr S.
JH should provide the figures showing how it has worked out the above calculation in a clear 
and simple format to Mr S. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint brought on behalf of the estate of Mrs S and direct Janus Henderson 
Fund Management UK Limited to take the steps set out above to put things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman