DRN-2165921
The complaint
Mr R complains that Central Homeloans Limited have acted unfairly when charging him fees 
and interest for his secured loan. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr R took out a secured loan in 2007 with Central Homeloans. Mr R got into financial 
difficulties, but felt the charges he faced as a result were excessive  he said that if he 
missed one payment, it could cost him £1,000. Mr R also didnt understand why his debt was 
so much more than hed borrowed.
Mr R complained to Central Homeloans. It said Mr R had borrowed £15,043.75 for a 25 year 
period, but he owed a significant amount of interest because hed got into arrears and been 
charged extra fees and interest as a result. Central Homeloans confirmed that by January 
2020, £3,936 had been charged for arrears administration fees, default notices and solicitors 
fees, with an additional £6,440.34 interest and £2,316.67 for solicitors expenses and field 
agent costs. It said the fees had been correctly charged due to Mr Rs failure to pay as 
agreed and he had been warned he needed to pay more to clear all the debt by the time the 
loan ended in his annual statements. 
Mr R complained to us. The investigator found that this service could only look at the 
charges and interest charged between January 2014 and January 2020. The investigators 
view of the merits was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He noted that Mr R was in 
arrears and didnt provide the information Central Homeloans needed to agree a payment 
arrangement more than once. 
The investigator noted that Mr R didnt pay every month as required and wasnt paying 
enough to clear the arrears and interest. He thought that Central Homeloans had acted fairly 
as it gave him several chances to bring the account up to date before issuing default notices, 
and the fees charged were in line with the tariff of charges (to which Mr R had agreed to pay 
when taking out the loan). The investigator pointed out that the compounding effect of 
interest can be significant, which was why Mr R owed the amount claimed, but 
Central Homeloans was entitled to the interest as it was correct. The investigator said that 
Mr R was in the process of selling his property and should keep Central Homeloans 
updated, including providing details of his financial position.
Mr R disagreed. He said the field agent costs were unfair  the investigator explained these 
were charged before 2014. Mr R added that he hadnt always received the correspondence 
from Central Homeloans  the investigator said it wasnt Central Homeloans fault if the 
correct address was used.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence before me, much of the fees and interest relate to what 
happened before January 2014, such as possession proceedings. I can only look at the 
period between January 2014 and January 2020.
The fees charged within this period relate directly to Mr Rs failure to pay the amount 
required every month, which he agreed to do when taking out the loan. While he tried to 
clear the arrears from time to time, Mr R was fairly charged the arrears fees and default 
notice fees between 2014 and 2020 as he did get into arrears and the fees have been 
charged only once each relevant time. Mr R when he took out the loan agreed to pay the 
charges within the tariff of charges and the lenders costs relating to arrears. 
Having looked at the charges, as lenders are only allowed to charge a fixed fee which covers 
the costs without profit regardless of the amount of arrears, Im satisfied that the fees are 
consistent with the industry standard. Arrears do cause lenders to undertake extra work, 
which does need to be paid for by those customers who havent paid as agreed.
And I can see Central Homeloans warned Mr R more than once about the need to deal with 
the arrears before issuing default notices, and complied with the legal requirements. I note 
that it has asked for Mr Rs income and spending to work with him to agree a payment plan, 
but the information hasnt been received. Central Homeloans also told Mr R about places 
where he could seek advice. From the notes written at the time of calls between Mr R and 
the lender, I can see arrangements to pay (or accept the contractual monthly payment, 
though it isnt enough to deal with the debt) were agreed at various points, but Mr R didnt 
keep to the agreement. I think Central Homeloans has acted fairly in how its dealt with Mr R.
I looked at the interest charged. While this service isnt a forensic accounting service, and 
much of the interest relates to fees pre-dating January 2014, I can see Central Homeloans 
has carefully calculated the interest due for the loan itself and the arrears and fees. 
Unfortunately for Mr R, the compounding effect has significantly increased his debt, but 
again he did agree to this under the terms and conditions of the loan and he hasnt complied 
with the duty to pay each month in full on time. Mr R has also been told repeatedly through 
the annual statements that he isnt paying enough each month to clear all the money owed 
by the end of the loan. This inevitably will increase the interest he owes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
29 December 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman