DRN-3126927
The complaint
Ms G complains that UK Credit Limited (UKC) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Ms G was given a single loan by UKC. She borrowed £2,000 in March 2018 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments. The loan was guaranteed by a relative of Ms G. 
Ms G successfully repaid the loan in July 2021.
Ms Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the results 
of UKCs checks should have led the lender to conclude it was unlikely that Ms G would be 
able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So he didnt think the loan should have been 
agreed and he asked UKC to pay Ms G some compensation.
UKC didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Ms G accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Ms Gs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time UKC gave this loan to Ms G required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so UKC had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Ms G. In practice 
this meant that UKC had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Ms G undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Ms G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether UKC did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Ms G.
UKC gathered some information from Ms G before it agreed the loan. It asked her for details 
of her income, and her normal expenditure. It checked her credit file to see how much she 
was paying to other creditors and how she had managed credit in the past. And it asked her 
for an extract from her bank statements, and a letter confirming her state benefits, to verify 
what shed said about her income.
Ms G was entering into a significant commitment with UKC. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that UKC wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Ms Gs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that UKCs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
 
The credit check showed that Ms G had faced significant problems managing her money in 
the past. In 2013 Ms G was made bankrupt following a large number of defaulted accounts. 
Although I would have expected those accounts to have been cleared by the bankruptcy 
proceedings, some still showed as unpaid on her credit file. And Ms G faced some further 
problems in 2017  less than a year before she asked for this loan. Ms Gs credit file again 
showed several defaulted accounts from that time that remained unpaid.
I have listened carefully to a call between UKC and Ms G where her past credit history was 
discussed in some detail. Ms G explained that both the periods of financial problems, in 
2013 and 2017, resulted from the breakdown of relationships. UKC did ask her whether she 
now felt her finances were in a more stable position. But I dont think it was reasonable for 
UKC to simply accept Ms Gs assurances at that time. She was asking for a loan  so I think 
it nave to consider that she might have replied that her finances hadnt improved.
The defaults that were present on Ms Gs credit file showed no signs of being repaid 
including those accounts that had been passed to third party debt collection companies. So 
I think that might have led UKC to conclude that Ms G had little, if any, disposable income 
available after she had paid her normal living costs.
The entirety of Ms Gs income was made up of state benefits  she said that due to some 
health problems she was unable to work at that time. And I dont think Ms G gave any assurances to UKC that she had a reasonable expectation that situation would change in the 
near future. In my experience, state benefits are intended to meet the basic costs of living. 
I think that, despite what UKC might have concluded from the unverified information Ms G 
gave about her expenditure, it would be unlikely that she would have sufficient disposable 
income every month for a period of three years to meet the repayments on this new loan.
Experience often shows that consumers who have faced problems managing their money in 
the past, will face similar problems in the future. Ms Gs credit file showed that she had 
already faced problems of this nature on two separate occasions  the last of which was less 
than a year before. So I dont think it was reasonable for UKC to conclude it was likely that 
Ms G would be able to repay any new borrowing in a sustainable manner so soon after her 
previous problems. I dont think this loan should have been agreed, and so UKC needs to 
pay Ms G some compensation. 
Putting things right
I dont think UKC should have agreed to lend to Ms G in March 2018. So UKC should;
refund all the interest and charges Ms G paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Gs credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UKC to take off tax from this interest. UKC must give 
Ms G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman