DRN-2751096
The complaint
Mr F and Ms M have complained about the way QIC Europe Ltd has handled a claim for a 
water leak under their buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr F and Ms M made a claim to QIC after discovering a wet patch on a 
bedroom wall in the basement of their flat. They told QIC the basement had been tanked 
(water-proofed) in 2018.
QIC appointed a supplier to find the source of the leak. After Mr F complained about the lack 
of progress, QIC instructed a different supplier. In September the new supplier found a 
leaking inlet pipe in the wall and repaired it. Then drying started.
In November QIC appointed a loss adjuster. They reported that the property wasnt drying 
as fast as they thought it should have done. They thought there might be other leaks or a 
building defect.
At the end of November a surveyor was instructed to investigate the cause of the dampness 
and draw up a schedule of repairs. The schedule was prepared in December. In 
March 2020 the schedule of works was sent out to tender. In April QIC accepted one of the 
tenders. 
Mr F and Ms M brought a complaint to this service about the delays and the way their claim 
had been handled. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold 
the complaint. I explained that I was only looking at how QIC handled the claim up to May 
2020 being the date of the investigators view. An extract from my provisional findings is set 
out below:
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type.
There was a delay of about six weeks on QICs part in repairing the leak. During that time 
according to QICs supplier, water continued to flow into the property from the leaking main 
inlet pipe. What had started as a damp patch on a wall spread throughout the basement, 
damaging the floor and walls in two bedrooms and a hallway and making the whole area 
damp. Carpets were ruined and contents became mouldy. I think its likely that the damage 
and repair works would have been far less extensive if the leak had been repaired shortly 
after the claim was notified to QIC. That in turn would probably have meant that Mr F and 
Ms M wouldnt have been living in such difficult conditions over many months.
I can understand that QIC would want to investigate whether there were any other reasons 
why the property wasnt drying out as expected. The loss adjuster said that these 
investigations could be combined with the strip out works but QIC insisted on them being 
done beforehand. It wanted more information on the tanking in case that was defective. I can 
see that when QICs surveyor visited the property, Mr F was able to answer those queries 
straightaway. I think that issue should have been resolved more quickly. I dont think it 
should have taken several months for QIC to establish that there were no other causes of 
dampness in the property. I also dont think it was reasonable for QIC to take three months 
from the time a schedule of repairs was drawn up to sending the schedule out to tender.
Ive looked at photos of the basement to see what living conditions were like for Mr F and 
Ms M. They had a bare concrete floor in their bedroom with holes drilled in it giving rise to 
dust and debris. There were also holes in the walls. Damp was coming up from the floor and 
making items in the room mouldy. 
They also had the stress of constantly chasing QIC for updates on the claim and having to 
complain in order to move things along.
Looking holistically at the trouble and upset QIC caused Mr F and Ms M by the delays, poor 
living conditions and lack of updates on their claim, I think a total compensation of £750 for 
all the distress and inconvenience QICs failures caused them is fair and reasonable. I 
appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr F and Ms M but Ive thought about 
this services approach to awards made in similar circumstances and I dont think I can fairly 
award any more. 
As the claim has moved on, and further complaints have been made, Im not going to make 
any recommendations about QIC starting work.
Mr F said he had nothing to add except to say that there were 15/16 snagging items still 
outstanding for QICs contractor. QIC accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any substantive comments on my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to change it. My provisional findings now form part of this final decision.
Im sorry that there are still outstanding works and hope that these will be addressed shortly. 
But I cant take this into account so far as this complaint is concerned because, as explained 
above, Im only looking at how QIC handled the claim up to May 2020. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think QIC should pay Mr F and Ms M £750 compensation for the trouble 
and upset it caused them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr F and Ms M £750 
compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman