DRN-2138165
The complaint
Mr O says he never asked Allay Claims Ltd to act for him in a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) claim. And says the information they used was inaccurate and the signature they had 
wasnt his.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr O was told by his lender that he had a successful PPI claim, and the 
amount of compensation hed receive. A few days late Mr O had an invoice from Allay 
asking him to pay their fee for his successful claim. Mr O said hes never asked Allay to act 
on his behalf in making a PPI claim. And complained to them.
Allay said Mr O made an online application in July 2019 for them to carry out a free PPI 
check with his lenders. They said hed also signed a letter of authority (LoA) authorising 
them to make a PPI claim for him, should any PPI be found. 
In September 2019 Allay said they told Mr O that PPI had been found and sent an online link 
for him to complete a PPI questionnaire. The completed questionnaire was returned to them 
the following day and theyd submitted a claim for him. And that Mr O hadnt cancelled the 
agreement within the 14-day cooling off period. As his claim was successful, Allay said their 
fee was due. 
Mr O wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us. He said the 
signature and information Allay had wasnt correct. And he could show that it wasnt possible 
for him to complete the request for a free PPI check.
Our investigator said Allay had acted fairly and reasonably and in line with their terms and 
conditions. He said Mr O had authorised them to act on his behalf and hadnt cancelled the 
agreement. He said Allay could charge their success fee.
Mr O didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this  complaint. Ill explain why.
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a criminal 
court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the 
courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more 
weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the 
information were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I 
have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
I can understand Mr Os frustration as he is adamant, he hasnt asked Allay to act for him in 
making a PPI claim with his lender. So, Ive considered whether Mr O authorised Allay to act 
for him in submitting a PPI claim. And if he did, whether he let them know he no longer 
wanted them to work for him. And to see whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with Mr O.
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr O has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mr Os lenders, and these details were also 
provided. A LoA would have been generated by the application, populated with the supplied 
information. And to be submitted a signature had to be added and this is what happened. I 
know Mr O thinks the information was generic and could be obtained through other sources. 
But I think the supplied information is specific to him, and the application would have been 
made for his benefit to seek redress for a mis-sold PPI policy.  So, on balance I think it would 
have been Mr O who completed the on-line application, and I think signed the LoA. 
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LoA Mr O had 
agreed to them. Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender.
I can see that in September 2019 Allay told Mr O that he did have a PPI policy with his 
lender.  Allay asked Mr O to complete a PPI questionnaire sent to him through an online link.
Allay has shown this questionnaire was completed through the link and returned the next 
day. The information provided is quite basic and there are a number of unknowns. But this 
wasnt uncommon in complaints such as these due to the passage of time. And the 
questionnaire said Mr Os complaint was about a loan taken out in 1998, and again this is 
specific information about Mr O. So, I dont think there was anything to arouse suspicion that 
Mr O hadnt made this claim.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. To cancel your contract with us, either call Customer 
Services on 0191 462 0000, email your cancellation request to cancellations@allay.co.uk, 
download a Cancellation Form from our website www.allay.co.uk or write to us at The 
Processing Centre, Trafalgar Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 2LA.
Allay has shown they submitted Mr Os complaint 10 September 2019, this would have given 
Mr O until 24 September 2019 to cancel within the 14-day cooling off period. And if Mr O 
was certain he hadnt asked Allay to work for him, he could have taken this opportunity to 
ask Allay about the agreement and to cancel it at no charge. Mr O has said he didnt look at 
the emails and had them diverted to a spam folder, but I cant hold  Allay responsible for 
Mr O not reading their email updates. And I dont think it was enough by Mr O not engaging 
with Allay to consider this as him cancelling his agreement with them. I cant see any 
evidence that despite opportunities for Mr O to speak to or get in touch with Allay, it wasnt 
until after his claim was successful that he questioned Allays involvement. 
In May 2020, Mr Os lender told him his claim for the mis-selling of a PPI policy for his 1998 
loan was successful. And I can see, at the same time, they told Allay. I think this shows they 
saw Allay as Mr Os representative. And I havent seen any evidence that Mr O directly 
asked his lender to investigate a mis-sold PPI policy for him.
The agreement Mr O had with Allay was based on a No Win No Fee. This means Allay 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook. Any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. Where a claim 
was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. 
This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mr Os claim was 
successful, Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr O agreed to and reflect the fee 
cap thats in place for PPI claims.
I know Mr O will be disappointed with my decision, but I think he did authorise Allay to act on 
his behalf. And he didnt cancel his agreement with them within the 14-day cooling off period. 
So, I think Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in what they have done, and they can 
charge their success fee.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman