DRN-3136557
The complaint
Mr C complains he was given unsuitable advice to invest in an investment bond by Abbey 
Financial Services (N.I) Ltd (AFS).
What happened
In May 2016 Mr C and his wife Mrs C were provided with an investment memorandum and 
brochure about the Helix Investment Bond (the bond) by someone who had been 
introduced to the bond by Mr M of AFS.
Mrs C emailed Mr M to discuss the bond and a meeting took place at AFSs offices on 24 
June 2016 between her, Mr C and Mr M. Mr C then invested £120,000 into the bond in 
September 2016.
According to the information memorandum I have seen, the way the investment worked was 
that Helix issued tranches of Euro Medium Term Notes (EMTNs) - debt securities - with each 
tranche having a specified duration and being redeemable on maturity. Each tranche 
provided fixed coupons and in Mr Cs case the interest rate payable annually in arrears was 
9.85%.
Helix used investor money to purchase promissory notes issued by Privilege Wealth under 
the terms and conditions of a loan and ongoing finance agreement. Privilege Wealth 
conducted lending activities in the USA and the investor money paid by Helix to it were to be 
used by Privilege Wealth to provide short term loans and revolving lines of credit in the USA.
The documentation refers to investment managers insurance with capital protections for 
95% of the capital invested.  
Mr C received the interest payment due in 2017 but not the interest due in the following year. 
Administrators were appointed in respect of Privilege Wealth in the first part of 2018. The 
administration ended in February 2020 with no significant money having been recovered for 
investors, and the court ordered the company be wound up on 12 February 2020.
Mr C complained to AFS when he didnt get the interest payable in 2018 and Mr M 
responded saying he hadnt provided advice. On referral to our service a jurisdiction issue 
arose as it was argued that Mr M wasnt acting on behalf of AFS at the time and hadnt 
provided advice.
The matter was referred to me to decide if we did have jurisdiction and as I was satisfied that 
Mr M had provided advice and that Mr C was a customer of AFSs at the time I decided that 
we did have jurisdiction to consider the merits of the complaint. 
One of our investigators provided her opinion on the merits of the complaint and thought it 
should be upheld. In summary she made the following findings:
There is no fact find to confirm Mr Cs circumstances at the time of advice, but it isnt 
unreasonable to accept what he has said about his priority being securing his 
childrens financial future.
Mr C may have been a high net worth individual but there is no evidence he was 
knowledgeable about investments like the bond.
Based on what he has said his circumstances were at the time he wouldnt have 
wanted to risk investing so much of his capital in such a high-risk investment as the 
bond unless he had been assured of its security.
Its not difficult to conclude he wouldnt have wanted to risk his money given his 
priority was his childrens future.
The brochure guaranteed an annual return of 9.85% and stated 95% was insured 
against loss but Mr C was likely persuaded to invest because Mr M said he had 
invested in the bond after carrying out his own research.
It has been established that Mr C wasnt aware the bond was unregulated at the time 
of investment so probably was unaware it didnt have the protection a regulated 
product would have, such as the ability to claim from the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if the investment failed.
Its not likely Mr C would knowingly have invested in a scheme which didnt provide 
such protection given his priority was his childrens future.
Its fair to conclude that Mr C relied on the advice of Mr M in making the investment.
There is no evidence AFS explained to Mr C he could lose all his money because of 
the nature of the investment.
AFS didnt ensure the bond was suitable for Mr C.
In response to the investigators opinion AFS, in short, made the following key points:
It is disappointed that our service continues to get basic facts surrounding the case 
wrong.
Mr C didnt have various insurance products with it as stated, he had a whole of life 
(WOL) plan taken out in 1968 from a firm it took over.
The investigator has stated that because of the pre-existing relationship it is 
understandable Mr C would have been comfortable approaching it, which is tenuous 
at best.
Mrs C didnt at any point speak to AFS about pension advice as the investigator has 
suggested.
Any previous relationship appears to have been exaggerated.
It is concerned about such errors given the original investigator found our service 
didnt have jurisdiction and this was then reversed with no new evidence being 
provided.
It wants the ombudsman to review the complaint taking into account this was a client 
led process with no evidence of advice/suitability reports etc.
It is unfair to lay 100% of the blame on AFS, but in an attempt to resolve matters 
amicably, it has made an offer to Mr C on the basis that if he hadnt spoken to Mr M it 
is likely he would have taken some risk and invested one third of his money into the 
bond.
It considers the offer is fair given there is no documentary evidence that advice was 
given, and the situation was commenced and driven by the client.
As Mr C didnt accept the offer put forward by AFS the matter was referred to me for review 
and I issued a provisional decision, the findings from which are set out below.
I have previously decided that we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint on the basis 
that Mr C was provided with advice about the bond and was a customer of AFS for that 
purpose. The crux of this complaint is whether the Mr C should have been advised to 
invest in the bond.
I note that AFS has made reference to my decision on jurisdiction reversing the previous 
opinions of investigators, which stated the opposite, without further evidence. It is the role 
of an ombudsman to review matters when a party doesnt agree with the opinion of an 
investigator. There is nothing unusual or untoward in an ombudsman coming to a different 
outcome to an investigator as AFS infers, whether on jurisdiction or merits. I have made 
my decision on jurisdiction and I am considering the merits of this complaint.AFS has also referred to factual errors in the merit opinion of the investigator. Although I 
am not persuaded that any factual errors made by the investigator have a bearing on the 
outcome of this complaint, I will briefly comment on what AFS has said about this.
AFS has referred to the relationship between it and Mr C having been exaggerated 
because the investigator has referred to him and Mrs C already being customers of AFS 
and having various insurance products through it.
I accept what it has said about Mr C only having a long-standing WOL plan with it - which 
it took on responsibility for from a previous firm - and that its only other interaction with 
him was in relation to the bond.
I dont think Mr C has sought to mislead us about his relationship with AFS. He has 
referred to having obtained car insurance over many years from a business that operates 
at the same address as AFS. He seems to have assumed that there was some link with 
AFS when, having checked the financial services database provided by the regulator, I 
am satisfied these are separate businesses.
However, I think his misunderstanding wasnt deliberate and was understandable given 
the names of the two businesses and the fact they operated out of the same premises.
I note the investigator placed some significance on the supposed pre-existing relationship 
 she suggested this meant Mr C was comfortable approaching AFS. However, Mrs C 
asked for a meeting with Mr M so she and Mr C could discuss the bond with him and 
having done so there is no reason to think they wouldnt then have relied on what was 
said, regardless of any previous relationship.
AFS has said that at no time has it offered Mrs C pension advice. It may be that there is 
some confusion about what was meant by pension advice. I have seen an email from a 
colleague of Mr Ms at AFS to Mrs C dated 6 September 2016 which is headed Review of 
ISA and & Pension portfolio. The email advises her about not switching some funds and 
giving two other funds a further quarter and consider fund switches after that if there isnt 
improvement. In the circumstances I am satisfied that AFS provided advice in relation to 
the funds within the pension portfolio.
In any event, whether AFS advised Mrs C about her pension has no bearing on what I need 
to decide in this complaint, namely whether Mr C should have been advised to invest in the 
bond. If advice is given, as it was in this case, then the advice must be suitable for the 
client. Having considered the limited evidence available I am not satisfied that it was.
The rules under which AFS operated at the time, as seen in the FCAs Handbook, set 
out what needs to be considered when providing advice. In short AFS needed to obtain 
the necessary information regarding Mr Cs; knowledge and experience in the 
investment field relevant to the specific type of designated investment; his financial 
situation; his investment objectives.
AFS had to obtain the information necessary to have a reasonable basis for believing 
that the transaction recommended met Mr Cs investment objectives, that he could bear 
the financial risk and had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the 
risks involved.
In this case, AFS didnt have the necessary information about Mr C because he 
wasnt asked to provide this. So, there is no fact find or suitability report available that 
provides information about Mr Cs circumstances. I understand that this is because 
Mr M didnt consider he was providing advice, but the rules dont cease to apply 
because Mr M mistakenly believed he wasnt providing advice.The rules go on to state that if a firm doesnt obtain the necessary information to assess 
suitability it must not advise on an investment. So, it was in breach of the rules in advising 
Mr C about investing in the bond and shouldnt have given such advice.
I have considered whether the bond was suitable for Mr C in any event based on what he 
has said about his circumstances, which evidence I accept. He has said that the 
£120,000 he invested in the bond was a lump sum he accepted as part of a retirement 
voluntary exit scheme offered by his employer in 2015 which also included a reduced 
pension. He was 67 years of age at the time and 68 at the time of advice.
Mr C said he and Mrs C decided to invest the lump sum to help provide money for their 
childrens educational needs. He said that his and Mrs Cs attitude to investing is 
governed by fear of losing their money and that traditionally they leave money on deposit. 
He explained that it was because interest rates were so low that they decided they should 
invest instead. Mrs C was still working, and Mr C has said that between his pension and 
her income their day to day spending needs were met.
Given Mr Cs age, the fact he had children that were due to enter further education and 
the fact that the money he was investing was the lump sum from his pension I think it is 
reasonable to accept what he has said about his objective and that he wouldnt have 
wanted to take any significant risk with his money.
I have seen nothing that suggests that Mr C had any previous experience of investing in 
an unregulated product like the bond such that he would have understood the risks of such 
an investment. Given his circumstances I am not satisfied that this was a suitable 
investment for him.
I have also considered what AFS has said about the investment being client led. I 
acknowledge that Mr C was aware of the investment and had seen the brochure and 
investment memorandum before AFS was contacted by Mrs C asking for a meeting to 
discuss the bond. I also acknowledge that the advice that Mr M did give was very limited 
and Mr C chose to proceed without sight of a suitability report or anything in writing from 
the adviser about the investment.
However, whilst it is possible Mr C would have gone ahead in any event regardless of any 
advice given by Mr M I am not persuaded that it is more likely than not he would have done 
so. In other words, I am satisfied that Mr C invested in reliance on the advice he was given 
by Mr M and that if Mr M hadnt provided advice he wouldnt have invested in the bond.
I note AFS offered to resolve the complaint on the basis that Mr C would have invested a 
third of his money in the bond irrespective of any advice from Mr M. I can see no basis 
for making a finding on that basis. I think it is more likely than not he only invested in the 
bond as a result of the advice he was given and as this advice was unsuitable, I am not 
satisfied he would have proceeded to invest anything in the bond if Mr M hadnt provided 
unsuitable advice.
I said redress should be calculated by a comparison between the investment in the bond and 
our usual benchmark for those willing to take a small risk with their money. I also said that 
AFS should pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience resulting from Mr C losing his 
capital as a result of the unsuitable advice.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision and providing 
any further information they wanted me to consider before reaching my final decision. Both 
responded and said they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further information or comment on my provisional decision 
there is no basis for me to change the findings and redress that I set out. So, these remain 
the same for the purposes of this final decision. In short, I am satisfied that AFS wrongly 
advised Mr C to invest in the bond and is responsible for the loss he suffered as a result of 
that advice.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr C 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
C's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should AFS do? 
To compensate Mr C fairly, AFS must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
AFS should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mr C £500 for the distress and inconvenience resulting from the unsuitable 
advice. Mr C has made clear that the money he invested was to contribute to the 
further education costs of his children. I think he will have suffered distress and 
inconvenience resulting from the loss of his pension lump sum when the expected 
interest after 2018 wasnt received and he wasnt able to use this for the benefit of his 
children as intended. I also think he will have been caused distress and 
inconvenience resulting from the total loss of his pension lump sum.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Helix 
Bond still existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate date of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)bonds
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr C agrees to AFS taking ownership 
of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for AFS to take ownership, then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr C that he repays to AFS any amount he may receive from 
the investment in future. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, AFS should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
AFS totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr C into that position. It does not mean that Mr C 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decisionI uphold the complaint for the reasons I have explained. Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd 
must pay the amount it calculates is due in accordance with the redress I have set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman