DRN-4068714
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) handled 
the return of his vehicle at the end of his lease.
What happened
Mr J entered a lease agreement for a car with MBFS. When the rental ended MBFS 
assessed the condition of the car and charged him for damage.
Mr J is unhappy with the inspection process and the charges which MBFS asked him to pay. 
He says they are totally unreasonable and without foundation. In summary, he says:
the inspection was not carried out in a proper way and MBFS are in breach of the 
agreement as they did not provide paperwork when the car was collected (which 
is in breach of FCA guidelines for the fair treatment of customers);
he accepts he has to pay for damage to the front wing (for £200) but the car was 
almost four years old when it was assessed, and the inspector had led him to 
believe that any other issues were just down to wear and tear (or potentially done 
in transit); and
MBFS appointed debt collectors who are phoning him regularly and sending 
letters which has impacted his mental health.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but did not uphold it. In summary she concluded 
that the damage MBFS is charging Mr J for is fair and reasonable. She did not think MBFS 
had acted in such a way as to warrant writing off any of these charges or paying 
compensation and thought it was unlikely the damage was caused by MBFS. She noted 
there was no persuasive evidence to support Mr Js claims in respect of debt collection.
Mr J did not agree so the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has questioned whether it fair he is charged the amount MBFS has requested. The hire 
agreement which Mr J agreed to states that he must return the car in line with its Vehicle 
Return Standards (the return standards). So the key question in regard to the damage is 
whether it goes over and above what is considered to be fair wear and tear in light of the 
return standards. These are set out in his agreement, but I note that MBFS appears to have 
applied its updated return standards as detailed on its website, so I have considered these 
where fair to do so (such as where they might be more generous) or where the agreement is 
unclear. 
I note the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) has produced guidance 
which is widely used in the industry to determine fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned particularly where vehicles are leased from new/nearly new. My starting point is 
what the MBFS return standards are, however in determining what is fair I can take into 
account other industry guidance such as this particularly where matters as to determining 
fair wear and tear are unclear. 
I note MBFS has decided to remove several charges it originally invoiced. I will not be 
focusing on these here only to note that in the main it appears that MBFS should have 
removed these charges due to the lack of clarity as to the damage being chargeable. It is 
worth noting that £220 of these charges to the wheel spokes (LHR+RHR) are arguably fairly 
chargeable under its return standards. I dont think that MBFS should now go back on the 
decision to write these off, but I have thought about this when deciding what if anything 
MBFS should do to resolve this complaint.
I have considered what MBFS has charged Mr J for and whether that is fair in light of the 
relevant return standards and considering the evidence from the inspections it carried out, as 
follows:
Bumper  front scratched
The return standards on Mr Js agreement say that scuff marks up to 50mm are acceptable if 
they do not adversely affect the overall appearance of the car. However, the photo here 
shows several noticeable scratches on the bumper over 50 mm, and some appear to go 
through to the base coat. I note our investigator mentioned 75mm rather than 50mm and the 
updated MBFS return standards reflect this (in respect of light scratches that do not 
penetrate the topcoat) - but the scratches are in excess of this updated standard too.  In 
conclusion, I think this charge is fair.
LHR Door  scratched
The MBFS return standards allow for minor/light scratches that do not penetrate the topcoat. 
MBFS appears to have applied its updated standards which specify the acceptable length as 
25mm. However, the picture here shows a scratch in excess of 75mm on the door. This also 
appears to be through the topcoat of paint. So I think it is fairly chargeable here.
LHF Door pad insert  scratched
The MBFS return standards in the agreement indicate that damage to the door pads is not 
acceptable. The updated standards are similar in this respect. I note that the photo evidence 
from MBFS shows a fairly noticeable long scratch on the door pad and several smaller 
scratches and dents. Overall the damage appears to be fairly chargeable here.  
LHF Wheel  damage
I can see from the pictures here that the wheel appears to be damaged on the rim in excess 
of 80mm. I can also see other pictures of what appears to be scuff/scratch damage to the 
spoke of around 50mm. The return standards in the agreement state that any scuffs, chips, 
or scratches exceeding 25mm are not acceptable. I can see from the photo here the damage 
appears to be in excess of this. The updated standards increase the acceptable length of 
damage to 50mm but state that any damage to the spokes, fascia or hub of the alloy is not 
acceptable. The damage evident here appears to contravene this requirement too. Overall, 
the damage appears to be fairly chargeable.
RHF Wing DamageThe photos here show what appears to be scratch damage to the bodywork in excess of 
50mm on the wing that has penetrated the topcoat. It also appears that there has been an 
attempt at repair however it doesnt look satisfactory, and I note that the return standards 
specify that substandard repairs are not acceptable. From what I can tell Mr J accepts that 
he should pay for this damage  and based on what I have seen I consider this fair.
Other matters
I note Mr J says he didnt get offered a copy of the first inspection report (a follow up 
inspection was carried out a couple of days later) when the inspector called around. He also 
says the inspector led him to believe the car was in good condition and damage was down to 
wear and tear. I dont know what was said at the time the inspector came over although I 
note Mr Js neighbour has provided a letter to say the inspector said the car was in good 
condition and no charges other than the front wing would apply. This account conflicts 
somewhat with the inspectors record on the first report that says Mr J refused to sign it.
If Mr J was told he wouldnt be charged more and wasnt given a copy of the report this is not 
good customer service  but overall, considering he was sent a copy of the report shortly 
after (which clearly detailed charges) I dont think there is a compensation award due 
(beyond what I have endorsed below).
Furthermore, Mr J has indicated the inspector was not qualified to carry out inspections. I am 
not sure if this is the case however, in considering what MBFS should charge Mr J for 
damage I have had regard to the photo and video evidence along with the relevant return 
standards and concluded that what MBFS is asking for is fair. Therefore, I do not think it 
necessary to consider this point further.
I also note Mr J has indicated that some damage could have been caused while the car was 
in transit to the second inspection. However I dont think that MBFS should reduce the 
charges because:
it took a video and photos of the car on the first inspection on Mr Js driveway which 
show most areas of the car and the majority of the relevant damage present before 
the car was taken away for the second inspection;
it appears unlikely the limited areas not shown clearly by the video or photos from the 
first inspection (such as the door pad insert) were damaged in the way shown within 
the 2 days and 68-mile journey until the second inspection; and
as noted above MBFS have in any event already written off £220 charges which are 
arguably fairly chargeable under the return standards. 
I have noted what Mr J has said regarding the FCAs rules and guidance regarding fair 
treatment of customers. However, in light of the contract Mr J agreed to and the overall 
circumstances I dont think the charges have been applied unfairly.
Mr J has mentioned being contacted by debt collectors from MBFS who have been 
contacting him excessively. However, MBFS has said the account is on hold and I note that 
Mr J has not provided persuasive evidence of the excessive contact he has described  so I 
dont think it needs to do something to put this right.
I note MBFS has accepted that its communication with Mr J could have been better when he 
initially approached it about his dissatisfaction with the end of contract process and the 
resulting damage charges. I dont have a lot of detail about the basis for MBFS making its 
offer, but I note it has said it will pay Mr J £100 compensation to reflect what it considers 
poor customer service. It has also said this is still available to him if he wants it. In the circumstances and noting that MBFS accepts it could have done things better in some 
respects I think it is fair it credits this to Mr J either to his outstanding account or pay it 
directly to him if he has settled the damage charges outstanding.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and direct Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to 
pay Mr J the £100 compensation it has offered for its customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman