DRN-2677972
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim on his motorbike insurance that was turned down by AXA 
Insurance UK Plc.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr M planned to use his motorbike but changed his mind and used his car instead. 
He left the motorbike parked on his driveway. A short time later two individuals made 
an attempt the steal the bike but were stopped by Mr Ms neighbour. As Mr Ms 
neighbour was attempting to move the motorbike back to the property the individuals 
returned, threatened him into handing over the motorbike and stole it. Mr M made a 
claim on his motorbike insurance, but it was turned down by AXA. 
Mr M wasnt happy about this and he complained to AXA.
AXA said it had turned down Mr Ms claim because the motorbike wasnt kept in a 
locked garage or brick building whilst at the insureds place of residence. It said this 
was a requirement under an endorsement of Mr Ms policy and didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Mr M didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they found AXA had relied on the policy endorsement fairly. They found that 
Mr Ms decision to leave the motorbike on the driveway had led to the events which 
ended up with it being taken. 
Mr M didnt agree. He accepted that the first attempted theft of his motorbike was 
fairly declined by AXA. But he said the second attempt was a robbery as the 
motorbike was no longer on the driveway and the individuals had used the threat of a 
knife to steal it. He said that as his policy didnt detail anything about violence or 
robberies, the ambiguity in the contract should side with him.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Mr Ms policy covers him against loss or damage to your motorbike including its 
accessories and spare parts when they are on your motorbike. AXA has relied on 
an endorsement to turn down the claim which states It is a requirement of your 
policy that the vehicle is kept in either a locked garage or brick building whilst kept at 
the insureds permanent place of residence. Failure to garage your vehicle will result 
in you not being covered for theft or attempted theft.
Ive considered whether AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in line with the above 
terms and conditions of the policy. I think this endorsement is a common one and I 
can see it clearly set out on the policy schedule document. So Ive next considered 
whether it was fair for AXA to apply this exclusion to Mr Ms claim.
Mr M has explained that this is an unusual case as the individuals involved returned 
for a second time to steal the motorbike, and as such he feels the time difference 
between the incidents is key in this claim. 
The argument here is whether this can be seen as one continuous event from the 
motorbike being parked on the driveway, or two separate incidents. Mr Ms neighbour 
has confirmed he was able to prevent the individuals initially taking the motorbike, but 
they returned as he was attempting to secure it and were ultimately successful in 
taking it. On balance I think the short time period here and the fact that Mr Ms 
neighbour was unable to secure the motorbike in time lends more weight to it being 
one continuous event. So I dont think AXA needs to look at the second incident 
separately.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that the sequence of events which led to the motorbike 
being taken began with the attempted theft on the driveway, and that the claim is 
therefore fairly excluded on the same basis.
So whilst I acknowledge Mr Ms point of view as to the separate incidents, I agree 
with AXA that it turned down his claim correctly, so Im not going to require it to do 
anything further.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman