DRN-3362794
The complaint
Mr A complains about a car he acquired using a hire purchase agreement provided by BMW
Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as BMW Financial Services (BMWFS).
Mr A says he has had numerous issues with the car since he acquired it.
Mr A has been represented on this complaint, but to keep things simple, I will only refer to
Mr A in my decision
What happened
Mr A acquired a new car in July 2018 using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS to
finance part of the cost. The cash price of the car is listed on the agreement as £67,943.13.
An advance payment of £19,999.66 is displayed on the agreement  although I understand
£10,000 of this was a dealer contribution. The repayments on the agreement were for
£585.70 a month over 48 months, with a final balloon payment of £20,415.57 if Mr A wanted
to keep the car.
Shortly after getting the car, Mr A began to have problems with it. I wont list out the whole
history of issues Mr A had with the car, as these are well known to all parties and arent in
dispute. Mr A said he noticed issues with the car as soon as got it and he says he continues
to have problems with it.
Some of the issues Mr A has had with the car include problems with; various cosmetic
issues including trim, number plates, kick plates etc., headlights, parking assist, brake lights,
heated screen, speakers, pedestrian sensors, automatic parking system, the fabric roof,
seats, cup holders and the heads up display.
Some of these issues, such as the heated rear screen and speakers, required repairs on 
multiple occasions. And the car has been returned to the dealer for repairs in total over ten 
times since Mr A has had it.
Mr A complained to BMWFS and asked to reject the car. It issued its final response in 
February 2020. This said, in summary, that the issues with the car had only been minor and 
had been repaired under warranty. So, it didnt uphold Mr As complaint and said he couldnt 
reject the car.
Mr A was unhappy with this and continued to complain. BMWFS said it would not change its
stance.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service. He said he was very unhappy with the car,
particularly as he had owned several other models from the brand. He said he had incurred
various costs that should be reimbursed. And he said the car continued to have issues with
it.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said, in summary, that the car was not of
satisfactory quality and said Mr A had a right to reject it. She said he should be reimbursed
the deposit paid, £150 for distress and inconvenience and 15% of the repayments made to
reflect impaired usage.
BMWFS said it agreed to the view in part, but it didnt think it was reasonable to pay for
impaired usage as Mr A had been able to use the car and had covered a significant mileage.
Mr A was also unhappy with the view. He said he estimated he hadnt had the car for around 
20% of the time hed been paying for it due to repairs. He said hed specifically bought a
convertible but hadnt been able to use it properly. And he said the situation had caused him
stress and embarrassment.
Our investigator responded to Mr A and BMWFS and said what she had been told didnt
change her opinion. So, the case was passed to me to decide. 
I sent Mr A and BMWFS a provisional decision on 7 February 2022. This explained I was 
thinking of upholding the complaint, but I thought BMWFS should do something slightly 
different to put things right. And, I commented on a few points our investigator didnt cover. 
Ive set out my findings from this decision below.
I should firstly say that I will focus on what I think to have been the key events and issues
here. Where I have summarised points or not specifically mentioned something, both in my
findings and in the background above, this doesnt mean I think its unimportant. This just
reflects the informal nature of our service. Mr A has written at some length about the history
of whats happened and provided a lot of information. I want to reassure Mr A, and BMWFS,
that I have carefully considered everything in relation to this complaint  even if I havent
commented on it.
Mr A complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider
Mr As complaint about BMWFS.
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, guidance 
and regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The 
CRA explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  BMWFS here  needs to 
make sure they are of satisfactory quality.
Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account any 
relevant factors. I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars 
age, price, mileage and description.
Thinking about this, Ill consider here that the car Mr A acquired had a cash price of nearly 
£70,000. It was brand new, and a high end model from a premium manufacturer. So, I think 
a reasonable person would have very high standards for the cars quality.
In response to the investigators view, BMWFS now seems to accept the car was not of
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So, my decision will mainly focus on what I think is
fair and reasonable to put things right. But, for the sake of clarity, I still think its worth me
commenting briefly on this.
Given the price of Mr As car, and the fact it was brand new, Im satisfied a reasonable
person would not have expected to have so many issues with it over the coming months.
BMWFS initially said the issues were minor. But, even if I accepted this was the case, the
CRA explains freedom from minor defects can be considered as part of satisfactory quality.
And considering the cost of the car Mr A got, I think a reasonable person wouldve expectedit to be free of even very small defects. That being said, I think some of the issues Mr A had
couldnt be described as minor. Several of these issues were repeated and required multiple
attempts at repair. And Mr A continued to have issues with the car after he asked to reject it.
Im satisfied some of the issues Mr A experienced were likely to be present or developing at
the point of supply. And Im satisfied others that occurred later mean the car wasnt
reasonably durable. It follows all of this that Im satisfied that overall the car wasnt of
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A.
So, I now need to consider what would be reasonable to put things right. Thinking about this,
I agree with our investigator here that, given several attempts at repair have occurred, Mr A
now has a right to reject the car. It seemed BMWFS and Mr A accepted this part of our
investigators view. But, they didnt agree on what else should be done to put things right.
BMWFS said it didnt think it was fair for Mr A to be reimbursed any of his monthly payments,
as he had covered a significant mileage in the car. But, I dont agree here. Im satisfied,
given how many issues Mr A had with the car, that its fair to say it wasnt performing as it
shouldve for the majority of the time he had it. I take BMWFSs point that Mr A was able to
drive the car. But, this isnt the same as the car performing as it should or Mr A getting what
he paid for. So, I think its reasonable a portion of Mr As payments are reimbursed.
Ive considered what Mr A said in response to the investigators view. He said, in summary,
that he thought it was fair to receive 25% of the repayments back. Ive very carefully thought
about what hes said here. I can see Mr A is particularly passionate about cars  this comes
across in his testimony and from what hes said about taking care of this car. So I can
understand his disappointment and frustration with the issues this car had.
When thinking about what to do here, Ive also considered that Mr A appears to have been
kept mobile during the times his car was being repaired. But, the courtesy cars Mr A was
given, from what hes said, werent always of the same class or value as the car he was
paying for.
Given the frequency of the issues from the start of the contract, and the overall impact of the
situation on Mr A, I think its reasonable for BMWFS to reimburse a portion of his payments
for the whole time hes had the car rather than me excluding specific periods where the car
appeared to be in full working order. Having thought about this, along with everything from
both sides here, I think its fair and reasonable for BMWFS to reimburse Mr A 15% of his
repayments.
Our investigator recommended Mr A received £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I also agree Mr A has been caused upset because of whats happened. But, I think 
this amount should be raised. Ill explain why.
As I said earlier, its clear Mr A is very passionate about cars and from what hes said I think 
the stress of what happened here has impacted him more than it might another individual.
Hes had to take time out to get his car repaired on a very frequent basis considering it was
brand new. Hes told us how this has impacted his work and his relationship with clients.
And, hes explained how he had to swap a courtesy car at hospital when a close relative was
very ill.
Thinking about all of this, I think it would be reasonable for BMWFS to pay Mr A £800 to
reflect the impact of what went wrong.
I also agree with our investigator that as part of the rejection of the car Mr A should get back
the deposit he paid towards the agreement. There is some discrepancy between the invoice,the credit agreement and what weve been told happened here. But I believe from what Ive
seen that the dealer made a deposit contribution of £10,000  meaning from the credit
agreement Mr A paid a deposit of £9,999.66. But, if Mr A or BMWFS can evidence otherwise
I will reconsider this in my final decision.
Mr A has also mentioned various other expenses in relation to the car that he thinks he
should be reimbursed for. I cant see our investigator commented on these in her view, so
Ive gone on to consider what is fair and reasonable here.
Mr A has asked for legal costs back in relation to his complaint. Our service is a free
alternative to the courts. Any expenses Mr A has incurred here have been his choice  so I
dont think its fair to ask BMWFS to reimburse any legal costs.
Mr A has asked for the reimbursement of several insurance policies. The alloy wheel and
cosmetic insurance has now expired, so Mr A has had benefit of the coverage and so I dont
think any reimbursement it due here. It appears he can request a pro-rata refund on his tyre
insurance, so again I dont think anything is due here.
I have considered Mr As GAP insurance policy. But, I havent seen whether this has
expired. If it hasnt, I havent seen if a pro-rata refund is due. So, without further information I
dont think it would initially be fair to ask BMWFS to pay anything here.
Mr A has asked for the reimbursement of several protection treatments the car had totalling
£540. Ive carefully thought about this. But, this wasnt a requirement under the agreement
and Mr A has had the benefits of these treatments while hes had the car. So, again I dont
think a reimbursement is due.
Mr A made some modifications to the car, such as putting different grilles and door lights on.
But, this was his choice. Ive not seen evidence this wouldve increased, or decreased for
that matter, the value of the car. So, thinking about whats fair here, I dont think BMWFS
should reimburse Mr A for these costs.
Mr A asked for the cost of various cleaning products for the car back. But, I believe he
wouldve bought and used these whatever happened here, and he will presumably be able
to use any remaining products on his future cars. So, I dont think BMWFS should pay for
these.
Mr A had the car serviced and an MOT carried out in July 2021. I dont think hes going to
get the full benefit of this expense if the car is going to be rejected. Its difficult to put an
exact value on this, but thinking about things in the round, it seems reasonable to be
reimbursed half this amount. Mr A also had the car serviced earlier, but I think its fair to say
hes had the benefit of this.
Ive thought about the tracker and subscription Mr A got for the car. Hes evidenced this was
for a five year period from 9 July 2018 at a total cost of £695. I can see that hes not had the
full benefit here. But, I need to consider that the agreement was only due to run for four
years, so Ive made the assumption this can either be transferred or a pro-rata refund
requested. But, if Mr A can show otherwise Ill reconsider this in my final decision.
Mr A has mentioned some other costs, such as a boot liner, but these havent been
evidenced. I will of course consider anything else provided such as invoices or receipts
before I make my final decision.
Finally, I want to again reassure Mr A and BMWFS that Ive carefully considered everything
else said and provided in relation to the complaint. Having done so, Im satisfied what Iveset out above is a fair and reasonable way to put things right.
I gave both parties one month to respond with any further comments or evidence. BMWFS 
came back and said while it agreed with most of the decision, it thought £800 was too high 
an award for distress and inconvenience. Mr A responded and said he thought 15% of the 
monthly repayments was too low an amount and thought a mileage deduction of 45p a mile 
should be used.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what BMWFS said about it considering £800 too high an amount 
to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A by what went wrong. It said it felt 
this award was higher than normal. 
Ive considered what happened in the very specific circumstances of this case. I think Mr A 
was caused quite significant distress because of what happened. And, I think the general 
impact on him was higher than another person, because of his obvious passion and high 
expectations for this car. So, having thought about everything again, I still think £800 is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr A asked me to explain how I calculated the 15% of the monthly repayments to be 
refunded to him. This was based on what I considered to be fair and reasonable under all 
the circumstances of the complaint as explained above. Ive carefully thought about what 
Mr A said here. And I did have in mind when considering this that, as Mr A pointed out, he 
didnt have the use of his particular car for periods of the agreement. 
I appreciate Mr A feels the award should be higher here or a different method of 
reimbursement used. But, having considered everything again, I still think its reasonable for 
BMWFS to reimburse 15% of all repayments made to the agreement.
I mentioned several expenses in my provisional decision that I didnt think should initially be 
paid out without further evidence. Mr A hasnt provided any additional information about this 
 so I still think what I recommended in my provisional decision to put things right is 
reasonable.
Having thought about everything again, along with the additional comments made by Mr A 
and BMWFS, I still think this complaint should be upheld for the same reasons explained in 
my provisional decision and set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as BMW Financial Services to put things right by doing the following:Collect the car at no cost to Mr A at a time and date suitable for him
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Reimburse Mr A the deposit of £9,999.66*
Reimburse Mr A 15% of all repayments made towards the agreement*
Reimburse Mr A half of the cost of the service/MOT from 2 July 2021 - £71.43*
Pay Mr A £800 to reflect distress and inconvenience caused
* These amounts should have 8% simple annual interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue and 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue and Customers if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman