DRN-2069242
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice he was given in 1985 when he purchased an Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited personal pension, and the subsequent performance of the investment. 
When the pension was purchased it was trading as Norwich Union, however as Aviva is now 
responsible for the investment, I shall refer to Aviva throughout.
What happened
In 1985 Mr B had an existing relationship with a third-party firm [who Ill call R] as it arranged 
insurance for him. He had a discussion with it about the purchase of a pension, and as a 
result was sent documentation from Norwich Union (now Aviva). 
Mr B says he purchased the pension as a result of the information he was sent, which 
showed he would be able to take 35% of the fund as tax free cash on retirement, and the 
investment was forecast to return about £81,000 upon his retirement at 65 years old.
Unfortunately for Mr B, the investment didnt perform as projected, so he continued to make 
contributions to it until he was 75. As of September 2019, the value of the fund was just over 
£57,000 and he is only able to take a maximum of 25% of the maturity value as tax-free 
cash. 
Mr B complained to Aviva that the pension had been mis-sold.
In its final response letter, Aviva said it was not responsible for the advice to purchase the 
pension, as this had been provided by R.
Mr B didnt agree and complained to our service. He said that even if Aviva didnt sell the 
pension, R were acting as its agent, so Aviva was responsible. In addition, he complained 
about the way Aviva had managed the pension and so was responsible for its performance 
and the shortfall at its maturity.
Our investigator thought that R was more likely than not the selling agent, so wouldve been 
responsible for the advice, and would have put him in touch with Aviva. And he hadnt seen 
anything to suggest that Aviva had mis-managed his pension and so werent responsible for 
its poor performance. In relation to Mr B not being able to take 35% of his pension as tax-
free cash as he said he was told when he bought it, our investigator thought this was due to 
changes in the rules and regulations surrounding pensions and tax, which were the 
responsibility of government, not Aviva.
 
Mr B said he agreed that the investigators conclusions were in essence correct. However, he 
wanted the complaint reviewed by an ombudsman as he felt Aviva hadnt fulfilled his 
reasonable expectations. He said he had bought the pension as he thought a high return 
would be assured. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but having done so I agree with the 
investigator, for largely the same reasons. I will explain why.
The sale happened a long time ago and the paperwork is understandably limited because of 
this. Aviva says its records show R would have sold Mr B the policy. Mr B says he relied on 
the information given to him by Aviva. We cant say for certain what happened here, but I 
dont think it matters for the outcome of this complaint. Given what I know about Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale, I cant see starting a pension was unsuitable for him, 
or that he was given unfair or misleading information. He was self-employed and so starting 
a pension would have been good advice. And with profits plans were relatively low risk and 
the premiums seemed affordable given Mr B continued paying them over the years. 
And I agree with the investigators view that returns from investments such as this are not 
guaranteed, and the amount invested can fall as well as rise. This is the very nature of 
investments as their performance is dependent on many external factors which cant be 
controlled by Aviva. 
Mr B was given projections based on future bonuses staying the same, but the illustration 
mentioned that these could vary. Also, projections in the 1980s and assumptions about 
interest rates and investment performance were a lot more optimistic than they have turned 
out to be over the years, and Im satisfied the projections would have been given in good 
faith at the time. Also, older plans, like the one he has, used to have higher tax-free 
allowances, so the information given to him was likely to have been correct back in 1985. 
But nowadays generally only 25% can be taken tax-free.  
So Im satisfied Mr B wasnt mis-sold the pension plan. And whilst I have a good deal of 
sympathy with Mr B, and recognise the current value of his pension is a lot lower than was 
projected 35 years ago, this unfortunately is not unusual, and doesnt mean his pension has 
been mismanaged.  
My final decision
As a result of all the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman