DRN-3590058
The complaint
Miss R, through her representative, complains that Everyday Lending Limited lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Miss R says that she applied for a loan and it was approved in February 2010. It was for 
£1,400 repayable over 24 months and the monthly repayments (including an additional 
insurance premium) was £145.35. 
Everyday Lending in its final response letter (FRL) following Miss Rs complaint thought that 
it had been brought too late. That element of the complaint about jurisdiction has been 
resolved by another ombudsman. I need say no more about it. 
Following that, one of our adjudicators considered the complaint on its merits, and thought 
that Everyday Lending had done nothing wrong. Miss R did not agree and telephoned to 
speak to that adjudicator. I have listened to that recorded call. Miss R was going to send to 
us additional information  whether that was through her representative or directly to the 
adjudicator  but never did. That was on 12 June 2020 and today is 21 July 2022 so almost 
six weeks ago. Miss R and her representative were informed I would be issuing my decision 
today  21 July 2022.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me. I consider it appropriate in the interests of both 
parties for this complaint to be resolved and I am issuing my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Miss R would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss R would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday Lending act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Rs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focussed  so Everyday Lending had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had 
to ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss R undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Rs complaint.
The monthly repayments (including the payment protection insurance Miss R was sold at the 
same time) was £145.35. The copy documents I have seen from Everyday Lending is that 
the PPI premium was £11.43 a month. 
The PPI claim has been dealt with separately and earlier to this irresponsible lending 
complaint. Miss R has said that the PPI claim was upheld. Miss R said it had been dealt with 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service but I have found no records about that in our systems 
for our case management. As Miss R says it was upheld then I must assume that the PPI 
premiums have been refunded. And as it has been the subject of a former complaint then 
I have not focussed on the PPI element of the loan taken with Everyday Lending. 
Miss R had told Everyday Lending that she was employed, provided payslips, and copy bank 
statements (for all four of her accounts), and was living at home with her parents. 
Everyday Lendings records show that she had no dependents and had outgoings of around 
£441 each month which consisted of living expenses £150,  £100 to £150 rent to her 
parents, petrol, mobile phone cost of £30, car insurance and one other monthly creditor 
repayment of £51.74. Theres also a different note to say that her expenditure was £491 each month. I add it up to 
be £471.48 if the contribution to her mother was £100 and £521.48 a month if the 
contribution to her mother was £150. From the copy bank statements Miss R provided for 
Everyday Lending at the time she applied, it seems that she gave her mother £100 one 
month and £150 another month so it did seem to vary. 
Her income had been verified as £1,043. The money left over after paying all her outgoings 
(including the other credit commitment costs), using the £491 figure, was £552.
I have seen from the bank statements that Everyday Lending had at the time, that in 
December 2009 Miss Rs salary had been £831 not £1,043. So, I think Everyday Lending 
ought to have used the lower salary when assessing affordability or at least an average 
which I have calculated as £937 a month.
The cost of this loan (with the PPI insurance) was going to be just over £145.
Her mobile phone cost appears on her bank statements as over £163 but had been counted 
as £30 a month. However, when I looked at this telecommunications credit commitment 
more closely I could see that the balance on the credit search results list dated as being an 
updated entry of 13 January 2010 was for £163. Her bank statement shows on 18 January 
2010 she paid the telecoms supplier that full amount. Which meant that she did not owe it 
anything. So, the £30 per month likely was the running costs and it seems that is what 
Everyday Lending included in its Income and Expenditure (I&E) calculations.  
The I&E seems to have a note attached to the living expenses of £150 as being Everyday 
which, if that means, Everyday Lending was counting her loan repayments to itself as her 
living expenses then I do not think that it had calculated enough for day-to-day living costs. 
The £51 repayment was for a loan she had taken in January 2010 for about £1,300 for 
36 months which meant it would have been due and owing for all the 24 months Miss R was 
having to repay Everyday Lending. I do think that having taken a loan just one month before 
she applied to Everyday Lending then that ought to have been an alert to it as to why Miss R 
needed another so quickly. But, even if it had decided to do further checks at that stage, 
having looked at the information and documentation it reviewed before approving the loan, 
I do not think it could have done more. 
Miss R had an overdraft of £1,400 on one of her accounts and it looks to be the situation 
where Miss R kept that account in its overdraft status up to its limit all the time. 
Therefore, having considered all of this, I have calculated Miss Rs outgoings as £521 which 
included a £150 payment to her mother and counted the £150 living expenses category as 
Miss Rs living expenses. Then adding on the cost of this loan at £145, Miss Rs outgoings 
come to £666. And using the average income figure of £937 to account for the lower salary 
in December 2009, even on those figures I think Miss R would have been able to afford the 
Everyday Lending loan. 
In a recent telephone call to one of our adjudicators Miss R has said she applied for this loan 
in branch and she was in a physical state which would have been obvious to an onlooker. I 
do not refer to is specifically to respect Miss Rs privacy. Miss R maintains that the Everyday 
Lending staff would have known that. Her claim is that she says it would have been clear to 
those staff that she would not be able to afford this loan because of the consequences of this 
physical state she was in. I have no evidence to substantiate any of this and so I have 
discounted it.
Miss R said on that telephone call that she had a medical condition as well and that varied as to when it affected her. I am sorry to hear of this. She also thinks that was important for 
us to know about but has sent no evidence of it. And having thought about this, even if 
Miss R had sent to us some information about that medical condition I doubt it would alter 
my view. 
And I say this because, unless Miss R told Everyday Lending in 2010 about her illness and 
unless that illness was one where it may have compromised her ability to make the monthly 
loan repayments, then any medical evidence I were to receive now would be unlikely to 
make a difference to my assessment of her complaint. And theres nothing in the 
documentation I have seen in the lead up to this loan approval in February 2010 to suggest 
she had told Everyday Lending about a medical issue. So, I doubt Id consider this relevant. 
Miss R seems to think that the PPI complaint and result was significant but we have no 
details of that complaint on our records that I have found. Miss R has sent us no evidence of 
it. I doubt that it would be relevant to an irresponsible lending complaint. 
Miss R has had time to send these details in if she considered them important to this 
complaint. And Miss R is professionally represented. Nothing has been received, even upon 
receipt I doubt I would have considered them relevant enough to make a difference and so in 
the interests of resolving this complaint I have proceeded to decide now. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman