DRN-3868216
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON (Aegon) failed to 
communicate important information concerning his Balanced Lifestyle Pension Fund and this 
prevented him from taking action that could have prevented losses his fund later suffered.
What happened
Mr P held a Personal Pension (PP) with Aegon. Mr P had invested his pension funds in 
Aegons Balanced Lifestyle Fund since its inception in 2012.
Mr P has said hes unhappy with the lack of communication from Aegon regarding 
information about the Balanced Lifestyle Fund. Specifically, that on 16 March 2022 Aegon 
published an article on its website called Important information about Lifestyle Funds March 
2022. Mr P feels this article warned investors of the fund to take action due to anticipated 
market instabilities.
Mr P has explained that he didnt see the article at the time it was published on Aegons 
website and only became aware of this information after his funds value had already 
dropped and hed complained to Aegon. Mr P has said that had Aegon sent this article to 
him directly hed have been able to take action with his investment which would have 
mitigated the funds losses. 
Aegon has said it doesnt provide financial advice to Mr P and while it publishes information 
regarding the funds it offers on its website, it wouldnt send this information directly to 
consumers as this could be seen as providing advice  something it isnt able to do. 
Aegon has also said it encourages consumers to seek independent financial advice 
regarding their investments.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with this answer from Aegon so he brought his complaint to this 
Service where it was assessed by one of our investigators. 
She felt the complaint couldnt be upheld. She was of the view that there wasnt a duty on 
Aegon to provide the website information to Mr P directly and it didnt offer financial advice to 
him. She agreed that had Aegon sent the article directly to him it could have been seen as 
providing advice, which it wasnt allowed to do. 
Mr P didnt agree with the assessment. He stated that he had requested Aegon provide him 
with news and updates regarding his account and so it should have emailed him the March 
2022 update. Mr P also stated that Aegon should have told him he needed to consult the 
website regularly to receive updates for the fund.
Mr P also noted that he had signed up for email updates but had not received any 
newsletters from Aegon due to his email address containing numbers. Mr P says Aegon 
never notified him of this problem and it unfairly prevented him from receiving information 
when hed explicitly requested this be sent. 
No agreement could be reached so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
First and foremost, the relationship between Mr P and Aegon was an execution only one. 
This means Mr P made his own decision about whether to invest, where to invest and how 
much to invest. 
I know Mr P feels Aegon should have sent him any information that was related to his fund 
and by failing to do so it has prevented him from taking action that could have prevented 
losses on his fund. But I must consider as an execution only client it was Mr Ps 
responsibility to monitor his funds and to ensure his investments still matched his risk 
preference. 
I dont see it as unusual for Aegon to provide information about the funds it offers via its 
website. I say this because our service does expect a business to provide clear information 
about funds that a business offers, to help consumers make informed decisions about their 
investments. 
And if Aegon sent specific fund information to targeted consumers it would be seen as 
providing advice. Mr P has himself said that he feels the March 2022 article was instructing 
consumers to move their funds. And had Aegon sent him this information directly and hed 
taken action based on this information alone it could be seen as Aegon providing advice, 
something it wasnt allowed to do.
I understand Mr P feels that by Aegon providing the link to the website article to some 
consumers that complained regarding the funds performance, or consumers that requested 
the information be sent to them it is the same as providing advice, but I disagree. Aegon 
responding to a request or complaint by sending the link with information, is not the same as 
Aegon sending the link or information directly without being prompted. Aegon replied to a 
request for information which the consumer actioned in those instances and it is not the 
same as a consumer receiving this information out of the blue  because in this context the 
consumer can interpret being sent unexpected communication as Aegon trying to give them 
advice.  
Mr P has stated that Aegon failed to send him newsletters by email, and if it had hed have 
been given more information that could have let him discover the March 2022 article in time 
to have taken action with his investment. 
Ive considered this argument and while I appreciate that Mr P feels receiving the 
newsletters would have encouraged him or led him to the website I cant be certain this 
would have been the case. Ive also seen a copy of a letter Aegon sent to Mr P in February 
2022 where it did encourage him to visit its website to get more information around the fund 
he was invested in. 
I must also consider that if Mr P never received a newsletter despite signing up for this he 
should have queried this with Aegon. Ultimately Mr P was the only one who could change the investment in his PP because that 
was the nature of the relationship he had with Aegon, and it was his responsibility to make 
sure the investment he held remained suitable for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman