DRN-2782483
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) wont assess 
his claim under his income protection insurance policy unless it is given further details of his 
medical history, which he considers to be unreasonable.  
What happened
In January 2017, Mr D, a teacher, applied to take out an income protection insurance policy 
with LV. The policy, after a waiting period of 12 months, would pay a regular benefit if Mr D 
was unable to perform his occupation due to illness or injury. Mr D also took out a waiver of 
premium policy which had a waiting period of six months. In his application, Mr D declared 
that he hadnt experienced any mental health problems in the past five years.
LV accepted the application. The policies started at the end of January 2017.
In June 2017, Mr D stopped working due to anxiety and depression. He remained off work 
and made a claim to LV.
LV spoke to Mr D and also obtained some medical information from his GP. However, it 
became concerned that Mr D had experienced symptoms of his condition before the policy 
began. It asked Mr D to allow it access to his full medical records relating to his mental 
health for the previous five years.
Mr D provided consent for certain information to be provided but did not allow LV to obtain 
the full information it wanted. LV therefore advised Mr D it was closing its file as it did not 
have sufficient information to confirm the eligibility of his claim.
Mr D was unhappy at LVs decision. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She considered that LV 
had received sufficient information from his GP to allay its concerns that Mr D may have 
misrepresented his medical history in his application for the policy. She considered it could 
adequately assess his claim without needing to ask for any further evidence relating to the 
period before the policy started. She considered that, while it should now carry out that 
assessment, its actions had caused Mr D some trouble and upset for which it should pay him 
£150 compensation.
LV didnt accept the investigators findings. It said there was good reason to believe Mr Ds 
mental health problems had started as early as September 2016. It therefore considered it 
was entirely justified in asking for more comprehensive information about his medical history. 
It questioned why it was, if Mr D had no background of mental health problems in the 
relevant five year period, he should object to LV seeking the information.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his application, Mr D was asked a series of questions about his medical history. These 
included:
In the last 5 years, regardless of whether you've seen a doctor, required treatment or had 
time off work, have you had  anxiety, depression, stress or mental illness (including eating 
disorders, addictions, work related stress)?
Mr D answered no.
In March 2017, two months after the policy began, Mr D had a telephone consultation with 
his GP in which he reported a deterioration in his mental health which he attributed to stress 
in his job. His mental health continued to deteriorate until, in June 2017, his GP certified him 
as unfit to work.
In December 2017, LV spoke to Mr D about his claim. In this telephone call, Mr D explained 
that a new head teacher had started at his school in September 2016 and this had changed 
the culture at the school. This had ultimately led to his illness which developed over just 
three or four weeks. LV inferred from this conversation that Mr Ds illness had started just a 
few weeks after the new head teacher joined the school. This would mean that his condition 
was pre-existing at the time the policy was taken out and that he had answered the above 
question wrongly. However, Mr D has explained that he did not mean this and that his 
mental health was fine until February 2017 but then deteriorated rapidly.
I consider Mr Ds explanation is plausible and that LV had misunderstood the sequence of 
events which he had described. Having said that, I consider that LV would have reasonable 
concerns about the sudden onset of his condition so soon after the policy had started, and 
given that the trigger was apparently an event which preceded the start of the policy. 
I therefore consider it was reasonable for LV to seek information to satisfy itself that his 
condition hadnt started sometime between September 2016 and January 2017.
Mr Ds GP had already completed a questionnaire for LV in which he advised that Mr D had 
been treated for depression by another GP in 2009 but had not otherwise consulted a GP 
about depression or a related condition until this current episode. LV subsequently received 
the GPs records relating to Mr Ds mental health but only for the period since 2016 because 
this was all that Mr D would consent to. The GP records supported the GPs statement that 
Mr D first consulted him about his mental health in March 2017.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) has a code of practice relating to the management 
of income protection claims. This says:
Insurers may ask for relevant medical or other information needed to properly assess a 
claim.
However, insurers should have a justifiable reason for requesting medical information at the 
point of claim. 
Accordingly, insurers should only ask for medical information beyond that needed to assess 
whether the insured event has occurred, or to case manage a disability claim, if and to the 
extent that the circumstances of the claim reasonably prompt the insurer to believe that there 
might have been misrepresentation by the customer.
The code also says that an early claim by itself is not a reasonable prompt for believing there has been misrepresentation (though it may be a relevant supporting factor).
I consider that the information which LV had already obtained should have satisfied it that 
Mr Ds condition had not started between September 2016 and January 2017, which was the 
reasonable concern it held. This being the case, I consider it had no reasonable grounds for 
continuing to suspect misrepresentation and furthermore did not need any additional medical 
information from before January 2017 to adequately assess the claim.
LV asks why Mr D should object to a fuller disclosure of his records and considers his 
behaviour to be suspicious. I understand LVs concern but the fact is that Mr D doesnt have 
to consent to the disclosure of medical records which are not needed to properly assess his 
claim. And a policyholders refusal to provide consent in such circumstances cannot, in itself, 
be regarded as a good reason to suspect misrepresentation because that would clearly 
make a mockery of the ABIs code.
I therefore consider that LV should go ahead and assess Mr Ds claim. I should point out to 
Mr D that this might still require him to provide further medical and other information, albeit 
relating to the period since his claim began. I should also point out to him that if LV decides 
his claim is payable my understanding is that, due to the waiting periods which apply to his 
policies, he would not become entitled to waiver of premium benefit until December 2017 
and to income protection benefit until June 2018. I note that Mr D has reported starting a 
new job in September 2018.
Finally, I consider that LVs handling of the claim will have caused Mr D a degree of distress 
and inconvenience for which it should pay him £150 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited to assess Mr Ds claim without seeking 
further medical information relating to the period before the policy began. I also require 
Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited to pay Mr D £150 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman