DRN-4435287
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B claimed on their travel insurance policy as they arrived at their destination a 
day later than planned. The first flight was delayed by an hour and a subsequent connecting 
flight was cancelled. They were put on an alternative flight around five or six hours later. On 
arrival, Mr and Mrs B had to then wait for a sea plane flight to their final destination. This 
meant they arrived more than 12 hours after their planned arrival time. They want Aviva to 
pay for a proportionate refund of their unused all-inclusive accommodation.    
Aviva declined the claim as they said there was no cover under the policy terms and 
conditions as Mr and Mrs B didnt incur any additional costs. And there was no cover in 
these circumstances for unused expenses. Mr and Mrs B complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. They also didnt think the evidence provided suggested that a 
payment could be made for delayed transport.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, 
she didnt think there was cover under the policy in the circumstances. And she also noted 
that the policy excess was likely to mean that Mr and Mrs B were unlikely to receive any 
settlement even if she accepted that there had been a delay of 12 hours. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They referred to section B of the policy which referred to 
cancelling or coming home early due to pre-booked travel arrangements which were 
cancelled or delayed for more than 12 hours. They also queried whether coming home early 
would amount to abandonment of their trip. The further representations didnt change the 
investigators thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint. So, the case was passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions say there is cover under section B for:
Cancelling or coming home early
What well cover:
We'll pay the costs shown in this section if an insured person unavoidably has to 
cancel their trip or come home early if one of these events happens
Pre-booked travel arrangements on the insured persons outward journey from the 
UK are cancelled or delayed for more than 12 hours or diverted after departure. 
There is also cover for unexpected expenses under Section D which says: 
What well cover:
Travel disruption
Well cover unexpected additional travel and accommodation costs to allow the 
insured person to continue their trip or to get home at the end of their trip, if their pre-
paid travel plans are disrupted for the following reasons: 
The insured persons pre-booked travel arrangements are cancelled or delayed 
for more than 12 hours from the time shown on their ticket or diverted after 
departure. 
Well also pay a proportionate refund for any non-recoverable unused pre-paid event 
tickets, green fees and excursion costs if the insured person arrives at their 
destination later than scheduled due to their travel plans being disrupted for one of 
the reasons listed above 
Missed transport
If the insured person misses their pre-booked transport because of an unexpected 
transport delay, such as the vehicle theyre travelling in breaking down, or public 
transport being delayed or cancelled, well pay for alternative travel and 
accommodation costs to enable the insured person to reach their destination. 
Delayed Transport
If an insured persons pre-booked transport is delayed and they decide to continue 
the trip well pay £50 for each full 12-hour period their transport is delayed. 
Well work out the length of the delay from the date and time of the scheduled 
departure. 
Have Aviva fairly declined the claim?
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
I dont think the claim should be paid under section B of the policy. Mr and Mrs B 
left the UK around an hour late. So, I dont think its reasonable to conclude their 
outward journey from the UK was cancelled or delayed for more than 12 hours. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt incur any additional travel or accommodation costs. So, 
theres no cover available under the travel disruption section for unused 
accommodation. There is cover for a proportionate refund for any non-
recoverable unused pre-paid event tickets, green fees and excursion costs. But I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that extends to cover all-inclusive 
accommodation which included a range of sports and activities. 
The missed departure section also offers cover for alternative travel and accommodation costs to enable Mr and Mrs B to reach their destination. That 
doesnt apply in the circumstances of this case because Mr and Mrs B didnt incur 
any additional costs. 
Mr and Mrs B arrived at their destination more than 12 hours after theyd planned 
to. But I think Aviva has fairly applied the policy terms as they refer to working out 
the delay from the date and time of the scheduled departure. In this case there 
was an initial delay of less than 12 hours, a cancelled flight and then 
Mr and Mrs B had to wait until daylight so they could take a sea plane. Therefore, 
I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva to conclude that theres no benefit 
payable because the terms dont say they need to calculate the benefit based on 
the delay to arrival at the final destination.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman