DRN-3290479
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have treated them unfairly 
following two escape of water claims made under their home insurance policy.
Any reference to Aviva includes that of its respective agents or representatives. For ease, 
any reference to a claim includes both relevant escape of water claims.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been discussed in 
detail by our investigator previously. For this reason, Ive focused on the key facts and 
issues left in dispute when summarising whats happened.
Mrs F is blind, disabled, and reliant on her guide dog for many activities. Members of 
her household are also medically vulnerable.
In July and December 2016 Aviva dealt with two escape of water claims. In 2017 
Aviva recognised the poor quality of these repairs and appointed contractors to 
rectify the problems. These attempts were unsuccessful, and the damage worsened. 
This led to the property being uninhabitable as it was entirely stripped out.
Mr and Mrs F and their family have spent the following years out of their home. They 
were placed in alternative accommodation (AA) by Aviva, which for much of this 
time was across hotels as it was unable to source a suitable property.
In September 2020 Aviva said it would cash settle the repair to the property to make 
good the damage caused by escaping water, and that caused by its contractors. It 
would also cash settle for the value of contents damaged by Aviva and pay for a six-
month let while the property was repaired including associated fees. It would also pay 
£1,000 in compensation, and £1,000 for the costs of re-training Mrs Fs guide dog.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us saying Aviva should demolish and rebuild the 
property as an effective repair wouldnt be possible, and it would have a negative 
impact on the value of the property.
They provided two independent structural surveys they said showed the propertys 
condition had deteriorated. Aviva reviewed these, and following a further report of its 
own, it accepted some of the additional damages under the claim but maintained the 
property could be repaired and didnt need to be demolished.
One of our investigators assessed the complaint and weighed up the evidence. She 
highlighted while Aviva had agreed to pay damage from the claims and damage 
caused by its contractors, it had said there was significant pre-existing damage that 
was not covered by the insurance claim. She considered it fair that an insurer 
generally should carry out uninsured work where this is necessary for an effective 
and lasting repair.
The investigator said Mr and Mrs Fs contractors had suggested the property should 
be demolished and rebuilt due to their view of the works being easier and faster to 
complete. But as this wasnt a necessity for an effective and lasting repair, Avivas 
decision to repair was reasonable and in line with its policy.
The investigator outlined the impact of the mis-handling of this claim on Mr and Mrs F 
and their family, describing how Avivas mistakes had led to around five years of 
delay, as well as many months of upheaval in the future before the matter is 
resolved. She also detailed the effect of being put in hotels as AA for prolonged 
periods, and the distress and inconvenience this caused to their quality of life and 
wellbeing.
She concluded Aviva should appoint an independent project manager to oversee the 
works going forward if it cash settles the matter. She said it should repair, replace or 
cash settle contents items that are outstanding. And Aviva should increase its 
compensation award to £10,000.
Aviva largely accepted the recommendations, but sought clarity on some specifics in 
implementing the investigators direction. Mr and Mrs F did not agree, providing a 
detailed response and additional reports and evidence.
oBuilding works: Mrs F had arranged several builders to provide comments 
about the proposed works as well as Building Control which she said showed 
the property should be demolished and rebuilt. She also provided comments 
from an estate agent which said underpinning works can impact the interest 
of future purchasers and a propertys value.
oContents: Mrs F asked for a more specific direction on each of the items due 
to the potential disputes about their value. She also highlighted the risk of 
Aviva attempting to clean and return items, specifically carpets, that were 
hazardous. And said Aviva should uplift its valuations to account for future 
price increases in items, as well as provide new guarantees on kitchen items.
oCompensation: Mrs F asked the investigator to reconsider the impact of the 
claim on the entire family, including her daughters mental health, as well as 
Mr and Mrs Fs physical health. She explained an instance where she 
became very unwell following consumption of takeaway food which Aviva had 
indirectly forced her to live on while she stayed in a hotel. As well as a 
separate instance where she said poor diet had led to the inflammation of her 
gall bladder, which needed to be removed.
She also quoted Avivas obligations to make reasonable adjustments under 
the Equality Act 2010 which she says it failed to do. And, in light of the £1,000 
retraining costs for her guide dog each time they move home, she said Aviva 
should make a donation of that sum to the relevant charity that provided the 
retraining.
oFinancial losses: Mr and Mrs F detailed additional losses they felt Aviva 
should cover. This included (but was not limited to) loss of Mr Fs income, 
satellite tv costs, osteopath appointments, dentistry, medical appointments 
and treatment, a personal assistant (PA) for Mrs F.
The investigator shared Mr and Mrs Fs comments and evidence with Aviva. And she 
commented on the points raised.
oBuilding works: She summarised each of the reports provided and said while 
some of the experts had indicated it would be more practical to rebuild the 
property, this wasnt enough to say it couldnt be repaired to an effective and 
lasting standard. And two of the contractors did provide quotes for a repair  
showing it would be possible.The investigator said she had previously directed Aviva to cash settle the 
value of the works to Mr and Mrs Fs cost, not its own, on the basis she 
understood they did not want Aviva to carry out any further works. However, if 
any discussions with Aviva led to a change in their opinion, Aviva should carry 
them out to an effective and lasting standard.
She also reiterated she was unable to become involved in the ongoing 
specifics of how the claim was proceeding, as we are not able to manage 
claims for Aviva. And the comments from the estate agent didnt impact on 
the claim as Aviva wasnt required to carry out works to ensure the best value 
for the property in the future.
oContents: The investigator said she would expect Aviva to consider whether 
an item can be safely cleaned or repaired when determining how to best 
settle a claim, but she would leave this for Aviva to consider in the first 
instance. She said she wouldnt expect Aviva to speculate on potential 
increases of items but would expect it to reconsider should this become a 
problem.
oCompensation: The investigator gave assurances she had previously 
considered the impact on Mr and Mrs Fs entire household, as well as taken 
into account relevant equality law, when reaching her view.
The investigator said this Service considers foreseeability of consequences of 
a businesss mistakes. And in this instance, an instance of e-coli wouldnt be 
reasonably foreseeable by Aviva, so she wouldnt look to hold it responsible. 
The investigator said she was unable to award any costs incurred by a 
charity. So, Aviva would only need to pay dog retraining costs paid by Mrs F.
oFinancial losses/new issues: The investigator said the financial losses 
mentioned hadnt been raised with Aviva previously. These were newly 
introduced losses and so Aviva would need to consider these in the first 
instance before this Service does. This also included the requested additional 
warranties on electrical items.
The investigator concluded that the direction, and compensation shed already 
awarded was fair, and didnt change her mind. And said the case would be passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
So, the complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional thoughts on the complaint on 
12 January 2022. I explained at the time of the decision, the matter of the claim was still 
ongoing, and I understood Mr and Mrs F were still in the process of arranging meetings with 
Aviva to determine next steps.
I explained the scope of the complaint Ive been asked to consider extends from the start of 
Mr and Mrs Fs claim up until 15 July 2021, so I wouldnt be covering more recent events 
within my decision. Nor would I be party to ongoing discussions or meetings between parties 
about the claim as this simply is not our role. However, I would still be considering 
documentation and reports provided after 15 July, as part of my consideration of whether 
Aviva had acted fairly in handling the claim.
At this time, Mr and Mrs F had indicated they still wanted further time to respond to the 
investigators opinion, requesting to see everything this Service had received from Aviva so 
they could share it with a solicitor. They also said they were hopeful a meeting between 
themselves and Aviva to discuss next steps would have taken place.
Our investigator previously explained this Service doesnt share full files with either party, 
and she had been very specific about all of the evidence shed relied upon in her assessment, offering to share any of these documents with Mr and Mrs F on multiple 
occasions  which they hadnt taken her up on.
Prior to my provisional decision being issued and after the deadline set by our investigator, 
Mrs F requested we send her all of the information relied upon without any specific detail on 
which document or documents shed like to see. To avoid any problems, I arranged the 
investigator to share all of the relevant documents that she relied upon when assessing the 
complaint with Mr and Mrs F alongside this decision. 
This did not include documents Mr and Mrs F had provided to us themselves. And I 
explained if Mr and Mrs F had any additional comments to make in light of these documents, 
they would need to make them known by the deadline set within my provisional decision.
I also said any solicitors opinion Mr and Mrs F intended to seek appeared to relate to their 
prospects of success in court. We are an alternative to the courts  Mr and Mrs F asked us 
to look into their complaint and my final decision would be the final stage of this process. 
And I said Mr and Mrs F do not have to accept my decision, and if thats what they decide 
then the outcome wouldnt be legally binding. So, I saw no reason to extend the deadline 
any further, particularly given the length of time since the investigator shared her first opinion 
(over three and a half months ago at the time of the provisional decision) and several 
extensions of time already granted.
I have included an extract of my decision below.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances I need to take 
into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
In line with the main areas of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, Ill consider the points in turn. 
And in doing so Im mindful of Avivas duty to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Mr and Mrs Fs submissions span many pages. Within this decision I wont be 
responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of 
the informal nature of our Service. My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of 
the complaint to be which means I will only comment on those things I consider 
relevant to the decision I need to make. That may mean I dont comment on 
everything Mr and Mrs F have said but I have read and considered everything 
provided by all parties.
Building claim
Mr and Mrs F have been clear they believe their property should be demolished and 
rebuilt. However, Aviva has said this wouldnt be necessary and that it would be able 
to complete repairs to meet the claim. 
So, the issue I have to consider, is whether or not it is fair and reasonable for Aviva 
to carry out repairs. And whether its plans to do so, would be effective and lasting in 
line with what this Service would expect to see.
As a starting point, I have reviewed the policy terms. The policy outlines that Aviva is 
able to choose how to settle a buildings claim by either replacing, reinstating, 
repairing or making a payment. This is common within policies of this nature, and 
means on its face, it is the decision of Aviva how to proceed, in this case by repair. 
And wed expect any repairs to be effective and lasting.Mr and Mrs F have said the repairs should not take place for various reasons, and 
provided several opinions from builders, structural engineers and others that they say 
support this. 
Within these opinions, Ive been given no evidence to show the property in question 
has been condemned by the relevant local authority and must be demolished. And 
having reviewed the comments from the builders, a property inspector and Building 
Control provided by Mr and Mrs F, I think the comments suggest a preference to 
demolish and rebuild for the purposes of practicality and cost  not that Avivas 
proposed works wouldnt work. Notably, two of the builders Mr and Mrs F contacted 
have provided quotes for the repair itself, supporting it would be possible.
Mr and Mrs F have also pointed to comments made about health and safety risks 
associated with carrying out repairs to the building. I would expect whichever builder 
or contractor who takes on the work to fully assess and manage these risks prior to 
carrying out the necessary repairs.
So, these dont persuade me the repairs outlined by Aviva wouldnt be possible.
Mr and Mrs F have said the builders they contacted agreed that rebuilding the 
property would be cheaper than the proposed repair. As a result, they may wish to 
discuss a cash settlement to the value of the repair with Aviva, and use these funds 
to carry out the rebuild themselves.
This matter is still ongoing, and discussions around the extent of repairs are still 
taking place between parties. I will leave this for Aviva and Mr and Mrs F to review 
and discuss. And I hope agreement about next steps can be met between parties.
Aviva had previously outlined certain works it considered to be pre-existing and not 
covered by the claim. Our investigator has provided detailed commentary on this 
topic explaining that if it wont be possible for the insured work to be effective and 
lasting without carrying out repairs to uninsured damage, then Aviva should carry 
these out. Aviva has subsequently agreed. For completeness, Im in agreement with 
the investigators comments on this topic and these works should form part of the 
overall claim that Aviva is covering.
In conclusion, Ive taken into account all of the opinions on the proposed works and 
Im satisfied the repairs option that Aviva has proposed is fair and reasonable, and in 
line with the policy terms. So, Im not persuaded to direct it to rebuild the property 
instead.
As Ive outlined above, this leaves Aviva in the position to choose how to settle this 
claim. In practical terms this means either a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs F, or for it 
to carry out the repairs in question itself. It isnt entirely clear to me what Mr and Mrs 
Fs preferred option would be in this instance. I will outline the two options available 
which Mr and Mrs F will need to choose.
Aviva carries out the repairs to the property going forward. And continues to pay 
for Mr and Mrs Fs alternative accommodation until the works are complete and 
they can move back into the property. Any policy limits around the alternative 
accommodation should not apply in this case in light of the delays Aviva has 
caused. 
I see no reason for Aviva to appoint an additional project manager to oversee 
these works (as our investigator has discussed) as this will be part and parcel of its role in carrying out the repairs anyway. But it still may choose to do this if it 
wishes.
Mr and Mrs F accept a cash settlement from Aviva for the works and associated 
costs (including alternative accommodation for the time it will take for the works 
to be reasonably completed). I ask Aviva to communicate this cash settlement 
sum to Mr and Mrs F and this Service following this provisional decision. And of 
course, this will be based on the schedule of works required to repair the 
property. 
In the circumstances of this case, I would not allow Aviva to limit this settlement 
amount to the costs it would incur itself, which often include discounts. And 
instead, I would expect Aviva to pay the reasonable market rate that Mr and Mrs 
F will have to pay for the repairs to be done.
If Mr and Mrs F believe the proposed cash settlement is not a reasonable market 
rate, then they will need to provide Aviva with three quotes from reputable firms 
for the repair works for it to consider. And Aviva will be able to then be able to 
make a settlement to the lowest of the three (if this is greater than the sum Aviva 
proposes).
While I understand Aviva has agreed to fund a project manager to oversee these 
works, again it appears to me this role would fall to the builder/contractor hired to 
include as part of their overall quote for carrying out the repairs. So, I dont intend 
on including duplicate project manager fees as part of my direction. Mr and Mrs F 
should ensure that any quotes they may need to obtain include such a fee.
Contents claim
Aviva hasnt disputed that belongings have been damaged by an insured event and it 
has agreed to cover a claim under the contents part of Mr and Mrs Fs policy.
The policy outlines that Aviva is able to choose how to settle this by either replacing, 
reinstating, repairing or making a payment.
As our investigator has outlined previously, in light of the considerable number of 
items outstanding at this time it would be impractical to make a finding on each 
individual item.
So, my direction to Aviva is on the steps it must first take. Aviva must do the 
following:
Return any undamaged items to Mr and Mrs F at their request or once the 
property has been repaired and they return to it, whichever is the earliest.
If the items can be returned but are damaged, then Aviva will need to repair or 
replace these items, taking into account any contamination that may have taken 
place and Mrs F has raised concerns about.
If the items are damaged beyond repair, lost or cannot be returned for any 
reason, Aviva can replace them or cash settle to the current value for suitable 
replacements at the cost to Mr and Mrs F (up to the limit of the policy terms).
Mr and F have asked for a specific direction on each of their contents items, including 
particular collectables that theyve said will be difficult to obtain. On the topic of the 
collectables, I understand some of these will only be able to be replaced by shipping 
items from abroad. I would expect Aviva to simply repair or replace each damaged 
item, or provide the equivalent cash settlement (including any associated shipping costs). Where an item may not be available, I would expect a cash settlement to be 
based on the current market value of the item.
Compensation
Aviva hasnt disputed that it has made numerous mistakes across the life of its claim 
handling which have had a significant impact on the lives and wellbeing of Mr and 
Mrs F. And it hasnt disputed the issues raised by our investigator, accepting the 
£10,000 compensation she suggested.
Mr and Mrs F disagree with the amount of compensation suggested and have asked 
for this to be increased in light of the impact of the overall experience on them and 
their family. So, Ive thought carefully about everything thats happened. And its clear 
to me that Avivas poor claim handling have caused sustained distress, and severe 
disruption to Mr and Mrs Fs daily lives for several years.
Ive considered the impact of being placed in hotels instead of more suitable 
accommodation for extended periods. In addition, the uncertainty and upheaval 
theyve experienced across life events, celebrations, as well as day to day living. And 
all this against a backdrop of seeing their home fall into a state of disrepair, which 
appears to me to have been almost entirely avoidable had the initial works been 
carried out correctly.
Ive also carefully considered the emotional impact Mr and Mrs F have described. 
And while no sum will ever put things right for them, Im satisfied £10,000 
compensation recognises the extreme consequences this has had on their lives and 
will continue to do so for some time.
Mr and Mrs F have said additional consideration should be placed on the impact of 
their physical health, from living in a hotel and being reliant on meals that werent 
home cooked. I accept this diet may have had an impact on their wellbeing, but this 
isnt something Id consider to be reasonably foreseeable on Avivas part or 
something Id look to hold it responsible for.
Mr and Mrs F have also referenced Avivas obligations under the Equality Act 2010 to 
make reasonable adjustments which they say it hasnt met. As Ive outlined above, 
Ive taken into account all the relevant law when deciding this complaint and Ive 
considered the impact of Avivas mistakes on them directly based on what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. It strikes me that Avivas 
actions, particularly to Mrs F, were often not considerate to disabilities or 
vulnerability. However, if Mr and Mrs F would like a specific decision on whether 
Aviva has breached this Act, they will need to take this matter to court as it will be 
best placed to consider this.
Other issues
Mr and Mrs F have said any underpinning works (repairs to the property rather than a 
rebuild) may impact the future sale value of the property, as well as their ability to 
insure the property and obtain a mortgage. These simply arent considerations that I 
would expect Aviva to account for when handling a claim and deciding on how to 
meet it in line with the terms of the policy. So, they havent changed my mind.
Ive been given nothing to support that the additional losses Mr and Mrs F have now 
raised with us (titled under Financial losses above) were ever raised to Aviva. So, 
Aviva will need to consider these in the first instance before this Service does. We have sent information on this to Aviva who will need to consider that information and 
respond to Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F have indicated they wished for concerns about Aviva contacting their 
neighbour to be considered separately from this complaint. Its unclear to me why, 
but Im unable to simply separate this matter from the events that have taken place, 
so it has fallen within the consideration of this final decision. Aviva seemingly 
contacted the neighbour without giving Mr and Mrs F notice, and this caused distress 
to them in light of unpleasant comments made by the neighbour following this. It 
seems to me Aviva has likely contributed towards any tension between parties, and 
the lack of notice was a failing on its part.
Mr and Mrs F have requested Aviva pay the associated costs of re-training Mrs Fs 
dog. As it was a charity that incurred these costs, and not Mr and Mrs F directly, this 
isnt something I will be telling Aviva to pay as this isnt Mr and Mrs Fs loss.
I told both parties I would consider anymore evidence or comments that I receive by 2 
February 2022. This date has now passed.
Aviva responded to say it agreed with the decision. And Ive been given nothing by Mr and 
Mrs F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive been provided with no new arguments or evidence to consider. So, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance 
Limited must do the following.
Pay Mr and Mrs F £10,000 in compensation;
At the discretion of Mr and Mrs F, Aviva must either:
oCarry out the repairs to the property, continuing to pay for Mr and Mrs Fs 
alternative accommodation until the works are complete; or
oProvide Mr and Mrs F with a cash settlement for the necessary works and 
associated costs (including alternative accommodation for the time it will take 
for the works to be reasonably completed)
If Mr and Mrs F believe this offer is not at a reasonable market rate, then 
upon receipt of three quotes from firms for the repair works (provided by Mr 
and Mrs F), Aviva should make a settlement to the lowest of the three.
Return any undamaged contents to Mr and Mrs F at their request or once the 
property has been repaired and they return to it, whichever is the earliest. 
If the contents items can be returned but are damaged, then Aviva will need to repair 
or replace these items, taking into account any contamination that may have taken 
place and Mrs F has raised concerns about.If the items are damaged beyond repair, lost or cannot be returned for any reason, 
Aviva can replace them or cash settle to the value of for suitable replacements at the 
current market value cost to Mr and Mrs F (up to the limit of the policy terms).
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr and Mrs F accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman