DRN-2037569
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy about being charged a second excess for a second phone claim by 
Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGIL). The mobile phone warranty is an added extra 
provided by Miss Ks bank account.
What happened
Miss K made a successful claim for a damaged screen on her phone. To settle the claim 
AGIL sent Miss K a replacement phone.
When Miss K received the replacement, she encountered problems with it straight away. 
She said there were problems with the battery, it was getting hot while charging, the screen 
kept freezing, it was vibrating during calls and she could only use it on loud speaker. Miss K 
contacted AGIL and it arranged for her to be sent package details so she could return the 
phone. 
Unfortunately, the package details didnt arrive and eventually Miss K contacted AGIL again 
who apologised for this and arranged for a courier service to collect the phone. AGIL advised 
Miss K to parcel the phone up securely. Miss K said she used all the original packaging 
provided when the phone was delivered to her and returned it securely.
AGIL contacted Miss K when it received the phone to say the rear camera was cracked and 
this meant the warranty was voided. Miss K confirmed the phone had no damage when she 
returned it. AGIL said it could give her back the phone in the damaged state or she could 
pay a further excess and start a new claim. Miss K didnt accept this and started a complaint.
AGIL upheld Miss Ks complaint on one point only. During the telephone calls it had said, in 
error, that there would be photo evidence of the packaging shed returned the phone in. So, 
it offered Miss K £25 redress for her distress and inconvenience as this wasnt true. But it 
maintained its stance on the other complaint points. It declined to deal with the repairs and 
said a new claim needed to be set up and a further excess paid. Miss K brought her claim to 
this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said there was no evidence to show the 
packaging was damaged when AGIL received the phone back from Miss K by its own 
admission. She noted that if the courier said it damaged the phone AGIL wouldnt hold Miss 
K responsible. Our investigator accepted Miss Ks evidence that the replacement phone 
wasnt working properly on the day she received it.
Our investigator referred to the warranty point raised by AGIL stating The warranty will not 
be valid if the defect is caused by misuse, neglect or tampering. But she pointed out AGIL 
had no evidence of this. She said there was no definition of defect. Our investigator asked 
AGIL to provide another replacement phone. But she also noted delays sending out 
documentation and on top of the £25 AGIL had offered she requested it pay a further £100 
for the delays and inconvenience of Miss K being without a working phone for the extended 
period.
AGIL didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AGIL said it was the responsibility of Miss K to ensure the phone wasnt damaged in transit 
but theres no evidence to suggest that it was damaged that way. 
AGIL was clear that if there was any damage to returned items it would spot these on return 
and pass them to the claims department to deal with. This wasnt the case with Miss Ks 
returned phone  there was no sign of any damage. So, based on AGILs own process, on 
balance, I think the phone wasnt damaged in transit.
Miss K contacted AGIL on the day she got the replacement. This was to raise concerns 
about the issues she was encountering while trying to use the phone. So, Ive no reason to 
doubt what Miss K said about having problems with the phone from the start. What it does 
show is that the replacement remanufactured phone wasnt fit for purpose and it isnt 
reasonable for AGIL to insist Miss K pay a further excess on the basis of a phone it sent her 
that wasnt working correctly.
Although AGIL refer to damage not being covered in their final response the warranty 
wording states The warranty will not be valid if the defect is caused by misuse, neglect or 
tampering. But theres no evidence to suggest any such action was taken by Miss K.
Based on the evidence I dont think AGILs offer to return the damaged phone is fair. I also 
dont think its reasonable for it to insist Miss K pay a further claim excess when the phone 
she received was faulty. I think AGIL should provide another replacement phone in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions.
AGIL was a long way outside its own time limits for sending out a replacement phone. It took 
double the length of time it aims for. There was also a delay in Miss K being able to return 
the phone as the details from AGIL didnt arrive. And there were delays in AGIL sending out 
necessary documentation. Based on the impact this had on Miss K I think a further £100 
compensation on top of the £25 it has already offered is fair.
Putting things right
provide another replacement phone in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
pay a further £100 for her distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
provide another replacement phone in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
pay a further £100 for her distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman