DRN-2344600
The complaint
Ms D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined her home insurance claim for 
storm damage to her chimney and roof.
What happened
Ms D made a claim for storm damage in March 2020. A chimney stack collapsed, which also 
damaged the roof below. She was alerted to the damage by a neighbour, and shes unsure 
when the incident happened.
Aviva assessed the claim from the photos provided by Ms D. Its surveyor made the following 
observations:
- The photos show a chimney with several missing bricks and mortar.
- The damage isnt consistent with the weather conditions during February and March.
- The chimney has fallen apart due to a lack of maintenance (pointing) over time.
- Therefore, the damage cant be considered under the storm cover.
- The damage caused by the falling debris also isnt covered as the policy doesnt 
include the accidental damage to buildings cover. 
Ms D referred a complaint to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators, but 
she didnt think it should be upheld. Our investigator reviewed the local weather records for 
17 February, which is when Ms Ds neighbour thought the incident may have occurred. Our 
investigator explained that because the policy storm definition hadnt been met on this date, 
she didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined the claim. She also went on to explain that she 
thought the main cause of the damage was maintenance related rather than storm.
Because Ms D disagreed with our investigator, her complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive or incomplete, I have reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  this means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to have happened, 
based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are: 
was there a storm?
is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have re-assessed Ms Ds complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind.
The policy requires wind speeds in excess of 55mph for a storm claim. Its my understanding 
that Ms D occupies the ground floor of the building, and shes explained the roof isnt easily 
visible to her. As such, I accept she doesnt know the exact date of the incident. 
Ms D reported the claim on 11 March. Having checked weather records around that date, 
there were four occasions at a nearby weather station where wind speeds above 55mph 
were recorded. The wind speeds recorded were between 56mph and 61mph, and they 
occurred between 9 and 16 February  which is just before the neighbour thought the 
incident may have happened. So, on balance, I accept the first condition was met. 
The Beaufort Scale notes that considerable structural damage could be caused by the winds 
recorded on those four occasions. So, Im also persuaded that a chimney stack collapsing is 
damage typical of that caused by the winds in question  which means Im satisfied the 
second condition has been met.
However, for Ms Ds complaint to succeed, I would also need to be persuaded those storm 
conditions were the main cause of the damage. On balance, Im not persuaded thats the 
case. Ill explain why.
Avivas assessor has highlighted the general poor condition of the chimney stack in terms of 
the pointing. In my view, the photos taken by Ms Ds builder supports Avivas observations. 
There are areas on the chimney stack where bricks havent fallen, but the pointing has 
deteriorated leaving gaps. I consider it likely that the area the bricks fell from was also 
suffering from similar maintenance issues.
I note Ms D is unhappy because Aviva reached its decision without assessing the damage in 
person. However, its not unusual for roof claims to be assessed from photos, often taken 
from the ground. Here, Ms Ds builder provided a clear photo of the damage. So, Im not 
persuaded it was unfair for Aviva to reach its decision without visiting or that a different 
conclusion would have been reached had it visited.
Although Ms Ds quote says the damage was due to recent bad weather, it doesnt provide 
any insight into the pre-storm condition of the chimney stack or explain why the winds were 
the main cause rather than the missing mortar. Therefore, Im not persuaded I can 
reasonably rely on the quote to support Ms Ds claim.
Having considered all the arguments made, Im more persuaded by the expert opinion of the 
surveyor, than anything Ms D has told us or presented. On balance, Im persuaded that the 
mortar had deteriorated over time, and this was the main cause of the chimney collapsing. 
So, whilst I accept the wind was a contributing factor, based on the information available, 
I consider it likely the storm winds simply highlighted an existing problem. The gradual 
deterioration of the chimney isnt something thats covered.
This means Im not persuaded Aviva unfairly declined the claim for storm damage. Having 
reviewed Ms Ds cover, Im also satisfied that the damage caused by the falling bricks isnt 
covered separately either. This is because Ms D doesnt have the accidental damage to 
buildings cover on her policy.
Ms D also says the damage to the chimney may have been caused by lightening, which the 
policy covers. However, the onus is on Ms D to show an insured incident occurred, and she 
hasnt provided anything to support lightening was the cause of the damage.My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms D. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman