DRN-3055396
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1989. Mr and Mrs C say Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting when Mr and Mrs C were arranging their mortgage. 
YBS isnt able to provide any paperwork from the time of sale - this is unfortunate, but 
unsurprising for a sale that took place so long ago. So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Cs 
comments alongside what we know in general about how YBS sold PPI at the time to 
decide whats more likely to have happened. Based on what I know about how YBS sold 
PPI I wouldve expected a discussion with the advisor to involve a decision about the 
level of cover and to set up the policy. 
I also think its likely Mr and Mrs C wouldve had to complete some paperwork at the time, 
and this is likely to have reflected the discussions they had at the time with the YBS 
representative. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs C 
knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
YBS hasnt been able to confirm who the policy covered, so I have looked at the 
complaint as if it covered both Mr and Mrs C. YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs C - so it didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for them. But it did 
have to give Mr and Mrs C enough clear and timely information so they could decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. However, Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs C  for 
example they werent affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. It 
also wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it 
would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs C would have declined the cover had YBS done anything more.
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Cs comments about the other means they had at the time 
of sale to help them meet the mortgage repayments if they were unable to work. The 
policy wouldve paid out alongside any employer benefits they may have received. It also 
wouldve helped preserve any savings they had.  
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
This means YBS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman