DRN-1937188
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the end of term charges that Arval UK Limited (Arval) asked her to 
pay when she returned a car she had been financing through an agreement with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs F acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs F responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in 
the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. 
othe front door dent  the BVRLA guidance says dents (up to 10mm in 
diameter) are acceptable provided. The ruler in the photograph isnt clear but 
I think its fair to say its likely to be the same ruler that was used when 
measuring the scratches to the other panels. Im persuaded using that guide 
that the dent is in excess of 10mm and is therefore chargeable;
othe scratch to the C post  the guidance says that scratches should not be 
down to the primer and Im persuaded that the scratches in the image are as I 
can see the white primer. I therefore think the charge is fairly made;
othe scuff to the bumper  the guidance says scratches should not be more 
than 25mm and I think this one is. So, the charge has been fairly applied.
I understand that Mrs F is upset that the damage wasnt brought to her attention at 
the time of the inspection. Ive thought about that, but I dont think Arval have been 
fair to levy charges as I think its most likely, even if the damage wasnt brought to 
Mrs Fs attention at the time, that the damage happened in her care. I say that 
because Ive been provided with no other reason for the damage and because the 
car was in Mrs Fs possession for much longer than it was in Arvals.
So, Im not persuaded that Arval have been unreasonable when levying the charges that 
they have.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman