DRN-3883608
The complaint
Miss B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) was unable to provide copies of 
her bank statements from 2020, which she said she needed as evidence for a court case.
What happened
Miss B contacted HSBC in November 2021 to explain she could not see bank statements 
between June 2020 and the end of December 2020 online. As a result of Miss Bs technical 
difficulties, HSBC sent her a copy of her bank statements.
Miss B says she didnt receive a copy of the statements. Miss B then contacted HSBC again 
on 13 February 2022 to ask for a copy of the statements and another copy of the statements 
was emailed to Miss B on 19 February 2022. However, Miss B says this was too late as the 
court case which she says she needed the bank statements for took place on 14 February 
2022.
In response to the complaint, HSBC paid Miss B £350 compensation.
After Miss B referred her complaint to our service, one of our adjudicators assessed the 
complaint and they concluded that HSBCs offer was reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think that HSBC needs to do anything more than what it 
has already offered to do to put matters right in this case. I will explain why.
I understand that Miss B first contacted HSBC in November 2021 to say that she was unable 
to view a large number of bank statements from 2020. Miss B says she needed access to 
these as she wanted to provide them as evidence that she had purchased high value items 
in a court case.
HSBCs records indicate that a copy of Miss Bs bank statements was sent to her by post in 
November 2021. However, Miss B has said that she didnt receive these statements. 
Based on what I have seen, I can only reasonably conclude that the statements that were 
sent to Miss B were lost in the post. But I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible if the 
statements were lost in the post, as that is outside the control of HSBC. 
I can see that as Miss B still couldnt access the statements in question, she contacted 
HSBC a number of times about this matter. And in the circumstances, I think that HSBCs 
offer to pay Miss B a total of £350 fairly reflects any frustration and inconvenience she 
mayve experienced in having to contact HSBC multiple times.
However, Miss B says that HSBC should pay her £2,190  which represents the amount she 
spent on the items in question, which was the subject of the court case. I understand Miss B 
says that because, had she been able to provide the statements in question, she believes 
that she wouldve won the court case. 
However, in the circumstances I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for Miss Bs 
inability to provide a copy of her bank statements from December 2020 in the court case  or 
indeed for her losing her court case. 
I say this because firstly, there is no guarantee that Miss B wouldve won the court case, 
even if she had provided the bank statements as evidence.  
Furthermore, if Miss B didnt receive the bank statements HSBC sent to her in November 
2021, she still had plenty of time in which to ask for another copy of them, before the trial 
was due to start, rather than waiting until the day before she says the court case was due to 
start. And I note that during a conversation with HSBC on 13 February 2022, Miss B was told 
that she could attend a HSBC branch to get a copy of the statements printed. So even 
though Miss B had left it very last minute to ask again for a copy of the statements, HSBC 
did still provide her with an option to get a printed copy of the statements in time.
So in the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for the loss 
that Miss B says she has suffered. It therefore follows that I dont think its reasonable that 
HSBC should pay Miss B £2,190 as she has requested.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I think HSBCs offer to pay Miss B £350 in full and final 
settlement of this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
I therefore dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything further in relation to this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman