DRN-3539014
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building Society unfairly refused their application for 
a retirement interest only mortgage (RIO), because of concerns about their property.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R own a property which was mortgage free. They decided to take out a 
mortgage to fund the purchase of a holiday home abroad, and applied to Nationwide for a 
RIO. A RIO is a particular type of mortgage aimed at older borrowers.
Nationwide considered their application and instructed a valuer to inspect the property. The 
valuer said that the property was a flat in a four storey block. He said that because of the 
potential that the block might have combustible cladding, and because of concerns about the 
construction of the balconies, an external wall system inspection was needed. He said that 
without an EWS1 form, giving the result of that inspection, the property was not suitable for 
lending a mortgage secured on it.
Mr and Mrs R complained. They said there was no EWS1 form because the building owner 
said one wasnt necessary. They said that it wasnt fair to refuse their application on this 
basis. And they said theyd incurred a non-refundable deposit on their holiday home. Theyve 
managed to buy the holiday home by borrowing from other sources, but this is more 
expensive and stressful than the mortgage would have been. Nationwide told them they 
would need to have an agreement in place to buy the holiday home before it would consider 
their mortgage application. Nationwide knew from the start what sort of property they had, 
but didnt mention the need for an EWS1 form until after the valuation, some months after 
they had begun their application.
Nationwide said that it was entitled to rely on the valuers opinion, and the property fell 
outside of its lending criteria. It said it hadnt given Mr and Mrs R any guarantee it would lend 
before their application was considered, and so it wasnt at fault if theyd incurred the deposit 
without being sure they had a mortgage in place. But it offered £100 compensation for 
delays in letting them know the outcome of the valuation.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly, so Mr and Mrs R asked for an 
ombudsman to consider their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The EWS1 form was introduced in collaboration between government, the mortgage industry 
and the surveying industry following the Grenfell Tower tragedy. The fire at Grenfell Tower 
led to concerns across the country about the possibility of combustible cladding and other 
fire safety issues  including balconies built on top of each other  which might allow fire to 
spread quickly through affected buildings.
The EWS1 process allows a qualified fire safety inspector to assess a buildings external 
wall system. The building will then be given a rating  showing that there are no fire safety 
risks, that there are issues but the risk is low, or that there are issues which are high enough 
risk to require remediation work. Obtaining an EWS1 form is the responsibility of the building 
owner / management company, not individual leaseholders, since the form covers the whole 
building.
The EWS1 process was designed, among other things, to give mortgage lenders enough 
information to decide whether a building presented a particular fire safety risk. Lenders will 
only lend where the property subject to the mortgage is good security for the loan  and if 
theres a fire safety risk, it might not be good security. Thats because theres a higher risk of 
damage to the property, and also a greater likelihood that it wont be able to be sold.
General guidance to surveyors and valuers from their professional body is that an EWS1 will 
be required where there are potential cladding or other issues and the building is six storeys 
or higher. And that an EWS1 may be required for smaller buildings too, if there are grounds 
for considering theres a risk that needs to be assessed.
In common with other lenders, Nationwide took these issues into account in setting its 
lending criteria for lending mortgages on properties in blocks of flats and similar buildings. Its 
instructions to valuers say that it requires an EWS1 on smaller buildings where the building 
has potential combustible cladding or balconies. And it will only lend where there is an 
EWS1, and where the EWS1 shows that there is no risk or no need for remediation work.
In this case, Mr and Mrs R applied for a mortgage. Nationwide took their financial details and 
considered their reasons for asking for the mortgage. Its adviser recommended a RIO and 
the application progressed to a valuation.
The valuers report says that the building is steel-framed with external cladding and a low 
pitched roof clad with metal sheeting. He said an EWS1 form would be required to determine 
whether the property was adequate security for Nationwide to lend on.
It was reasonable for Nationwide to rely on the opinion of a qualified surveyor, expert in 
assessing and valuing buildings, to decide whether or on Mr and Mrs Rs property was good 
security. The valuer said that based on his inspection of the building, there was cladding 
present and an EWS1 would be needed to determine if it was a risk.
Mr and Mrs R say that their building owner doesnt think an EWS1 is needed and so there 
isnt one available. Their building is less than six storeys, so there is more discretion about 
whether an EWS1 is needed than there would be if it were taller. But the guidance to 
surveyors is that an EWS1 can be required even for smaller buildings  like this one  if 
there are grounds for thinking theres a risk.
I can see this put Mr and Mrs R in a difficult position. Their building owner didnt think an 
EWS1 was needed and hadnt got one. But the valuer said one was needed  and so 
Nationwide wouldnt lend without one. Just because the building owner didnt agree, that 
doesnt mean the qualified surveyor was wrong.
But ultimately I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably here. It doesnt have to grant 
mortgage applications, and where it does lend money its entitled to satisfy itself that the 
property is adequate security  including factoring in fire safety risks. Nationwide takes a 
relatively cautious approach here. But some lenders have a lower risk appetite than others, 
and thats not unreasonable. In the end, Nationwide accepted the opinion of a qualified 
surveyor that an EWS1 was needed before he could be sure the property was acceptable, 
and that wasnt an unfair position for it to take. And that meant that in the absence of an EWS1 it couldnt lend.
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide should have warned them about this from the start. But theres 
no obligation for it to explain all its lending criteria. It couldnt have known that an EWS1 
would be needed until the building was inspected  until the valuer went out. And if it had 
talked in general terms about EWS1s and lending criteria, I dont think that would have made 
a difference. 
I say that because I think its likely Mr and Mrs R would have thought it wouldnt be an issue 
for them based on the building owners advice that an EWS1 wasnt needed. And so even if 
Nationwide had explained that it wouldnt lend on certain buildings without an EWS1, 
Mr and Mrs R would likely have thought that their building didnt come into that category and 
still gone ahead with the application to Nationwide. 
I dont think Nationwide gave any guarantee or assurance it would lend. And so 
Mr and Mrs Rs decision to commit to their property abroad before being sure they had a 
mortgage in place meant they were doing so at their own risk. Im glad to hear they did 
manage to purchase the property, and Im sorry doing so was more difficult than theyd 
hoped. But I cant fairly find that Nationwide unreasonably refused their application.
Nationwide did offer £100 compensation for a delay of a few days in telling them the 
outcome of the valuation. Im satisfied that was a fair offer and I dont require it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman