DRN-1766049
 
The complaint
Mrs G says Barclays Bank plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy was added 
when Mrs G applied for two cards (a visa card and a mastercard). The PPI policy and both 
cards had ended during or before March 2002.
Mrs G says Barclaycard mis-sold her the policy. She says she cant remember PPI being 
added but if Barclays did it would have mis-sold it to her as she had good sick pay already.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs case.
Barclaycard says that after seeing the application form, the cards and PPI were most likely 
taken out through the post or in a branch with Mrs G completing the application and handing 
it in. Mrs G has told us she is not sure where it was sold. After looking at the form and also 
the date when the cards were set up, I think it was more likely Mrs G completed the form and 
sent it to Barclays. So I will proceed that this was the case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint because:
I think Barclaycard made Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to 
take it. I say this because after looking through the application form I can see there is 
a tick box for PPI in the top right of the application form. The yes box is ticked on the 
form suggesting to me that the PPI policy is presented as an optional requirement.
 
Mrs G says she cant remember how PPI was added but doesnt think she would 
have given her consent. But her recollections of the sale are not detailed and so I 
have not been able to understand how she was not given a choice to have the policy. 
So with the sales documentation I have seen along with what I know of how these 
sales were conducted at the time, I am persuaded Mrs G was given a choice to have 
the policy.
 I dont think Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mrs G, but it still needed to ensure 
the information it gave Mrs G was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could 
make a decision about whether she wanted the PPI.
 
 I cant be sure if Barclaycard did give Mrs G clear information at the time. But even if 
it did I think Mrs G would have gone ahead and taken the PPI anyway. I say this 
because Mrs G says she had full sick pay at the time of sale. Our service requested 
further information about this and although she gave details of her employer it is still 
not clear how much sick pay she would have received. With this in mind, I think on 
balance, although Mrs G would have had full sick pay, she would have found the 
benefit offered by the policy useful in an extended period of sickness or 
unemployment. I also couldnt find any other reason why the policy would have been 
unsuitable for Mrs G such as an exclusion or limitation, as she wasnt affected by 
anything significant within the policy terms.
 
Its possible Barclaycard didnt give Mrs G clear information about the cost of the 
policy. But even if she was given better information I dont think it would have 
changed her decision to have the policy for the reasons I have already given.
 
In conclusion, I dont think the policy was mis-sold to Mrs G when she obtained two credit 
cards and so I dont uphold her complaint.
my decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman