DRN-3200462
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs S bought an annual travel insurance policy. In January 2020 
they booked a holiday to Spain. They were due to travel in September 2020. Following the 
impact of Covid-19 there were various travel restrictions in place during 2020, including the 
opening of travel corridors in the summer of 2020. 
Spain was removed from the travel corridor list and the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Development Office (FCDO) advised against travel to Spain.  Mr and Mrs Ss flight went 
ahead but they didnt travel due to the FCDO advice. 
Mr and Mrs S claimed for the cost of their flights, which were around £430. Great Lakes 
declined the claim on the basis that there was no cover for a change in FCDO advice. 
Mr and Mrs S made a complaint, but Great Lakes maintained their decision to decline the 
claim. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that 
the policy terms clearly explained that there was no cover for a change in FCDO advice and 
the claim had been fairly declined. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to 
review their complaint. They say that Great Lakes cant have it both ways  its not fair that 
they wouldnt be covered for travelling but also not covered if they cancel. And, they said that 
insurance was designed to cover unforeseen circumstances. So, I now need to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs S were provided with a key facts document. It says: 
The Significant Conditions and Exclusions
FCO & WHO directive
You are not covered to cancel or cut short your trip as a result of the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or other 
regulatory authority issuing a directive against all but essential travel to/from your 
travel destination for reasons other than earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane, unless 
you have the Optional Travel Disruption cover added to your travel policy. 
And under the cancellation section it says:
What is Covered
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all 
but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood or 
hurricane.
Was the claim declined unfairly? 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The trip was cancelled due to circumstances entirely outside of Mr and Mrs Ss 
control. But the trip wasnt cancelled for any of the reasons specified on page 15 
of the policy. Cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice isnt a valid reason 
for a cancellation claim to be paid under the policy except in the circumstances 
listed (earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane). So, cancellation for a change in 
FCDO advice for another reason isnt a listed, insured event for which cover is 
provided under the terms of the policy. 
Insurers are entitled to specify the risks they are prepared to cover, and no travel 
insurance policy will cover all unforeseen circumstances which may lead to a trip 
being cancelled. 
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs S have said about Great Lakes not being 
able to have it both ways (not covering them if they travelled, but also not 
covering them having to cancel). There are some limited situations where, if I 
considered that the policy documentation wasnt clear in signposting a 
policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and reasonable for 
an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, 
I dont think thats the case here for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
I think Mr and Mrs S might reasonably expect a restriction such as the exclusion 
of cover for cancellation claims relating to a change in FCDO advice to be 
prominent. However, Ive also considered the policy terms and conditions which 
form the contract of insurance between Mr and Mrs S and Great Lakes. As Ive 
outlined above the policy terms in relation to the lack of cover for the advice or 
recommendation of the FCDO are specifically highlighted in the cancellation 
section of the policy and in the key facts document. 
Although Mr and Mrs S may have been in the position of having no cover under 
this policy if they travelled and also having no cover if they cancelled, I think 
these exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms and conditions 
of this policy. It was up to Mr and Mrs S to ensure they had the level of cover they 
required to meet their needs and if they wanted cover for cancellation due to 
changes in FCDO advice for other reasons. And its likely they couldve found 
another policy on the market which wouldve covered the situation they found 
themselves in at the time they purchased their policy. 
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
Great Lakes to accept this claim. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman