DRN-3113837
The complaint
Mrs Y has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) misadvised her about her home 
insurance policy when she said it would be unoccupied.
  
What happened
Mrs Y contacted AXA to tell it her home would be unoccupied as she was in the process of 
moving elsewhere. AXA told Mrs Y that the property wouldnt be classed as unoccupied so 
long as she stayed at the property for a couple of nights every 60 days. However, AXA later 
wrote to Mrs Y and told her the policy would be cancelled as it didnt provide cover for 
unoccupied properties. 
Mrs Y complained to AXA. When AXA replied, it said the underwriting department had 
invoked the cancellation because Mrs Y had said she didnt intend to return to the property 
on a permanent basis. It apologised for any inconvenience caused.
So, Mrs Y complained to this service. While our investigator was looking at the complaint, 
AXA said it would offer Mrs Y £150 compensation, as it now thought it should have done this 
when it responded to Mrs Ys complaint. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part, as she said AXA had misadvised Mrs Y. When 
AXA realised this, she said it was reasonable that it issued a cancellation notice and that it 
also offered to continue to offer cover for a period because of the incorrect advice. Mrs Y 
had the benefit of the policy and AXA waived the cancellation fee and refunded some of the 
premium. She said AXA didnt need to refund any travel costs. She said AXAs offer of £150 
compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Mrs Y didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I will explain why.
When Mrs Y contacted AXA she was given incorrect information about whether her policy 
would continue to cover her, as she no longer lived at the property. She was told that so long 
as she stayed at the property for a couple of nights each 60-day period, it would re-set the 
occupancy requirement. Mrs Y spoke to AXA a few months later to explain her 
circumstances again and to check her cover. The call handler said it would need to be 
referred to the underwriter. I can understand that Mrs Y was shocked when she then 
received a letter from AXA saying her policy would be cancelled. 
AXA wouldnt normally provide cover in Mrs Ys situation, as the property was no longer her 
permanent home. AXA now accepts it made a mistake in the advice it provided because, 
based on the circumstances described by Mrs Y, this didnt meet its underwriting rules. 
However, this also meant Mrs Y did have cover in place with AXA and would have continued 
to have cover until the date on which AXA said it would cancel the policy. AXA has also 
confirmed that it would have dealt with a claim while the policy remained in place. If there 
were issues with AXA accepting a claim or how it dealt with it, Mrs Y could have raised a 
complaint with AXA about that. But, as that didnt happen, Im unable to comment on this any 
further.
Im aware that Mrs Y told AXA she visited the property for a 10-day period after she had 
moved elsewhere and that there were travel related costs as a result. Mrs Y has said AXA 
should pay those costs. However, Mrs Y had the benefit of the policy, even if she didnt need 
to make a claim. Im also aware that Mrs Y could have considered other policies where she 
didnt have to travel.
While the complaint was with this service, AXA reviewed what happened again and decided 
that it should have offered compensation when it dealt with the complaint. It has now offered 
Mrs Y £150 compensation, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
  
Putting things right
AXA should pay Mrs Y the £150 compensation it has offered, if she now wishes to accept it.   
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs Y £150 compensation, if she now wishes to accept 
it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman