DRN-2918273
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service provided by Openwork Limited when he made a mortgage 
application.
What happened
Mr A contacted Openwork in March 2020 as he was looking for mortgage advice. Openwork 
obtained a mortgage illustration based on Mr As requirements. And Mr A decided to 
proceed with an application. The illustration noted that a fee of £249 would be payable to 
Openwork for arranging the mortgage.
An application was made on Mr As behalf. The lender required a valuation of the property. 
This was initially delayed because of the pandemic. And then when the surveyor first 
attempted to value the property, they couldnt get access. So, the valuation had to be 
rescheduled. Unfortunately, due to a backlog as a result of the pandemic, the first available 
date was 10 July 2020.
I understand both Mr A and Openwork asked the surveyor to prioritise the valuation. While 
they were awaiting a valuation Mr A asked Openwork about whether he should pay for legal 
searches. Openwork suggested this shouldnt be done until a mortgage offer was obtained. 
Mr A however proceeded to pay the search fees before a mortgage offer was provided to 
avoid delays, as he needed to complete the purchase by a certain date.
Mr A contacted the valuer and managed to have the valuation rescheduled to 8 July 2020. 
The valuation was completed, and the lender issued a mortgage offer the next day. The 
mortgage offer reiterated the fee payable to Openwork and that this was due at offer stage 
and was non-refundable in the event the mortgage didnt complete.
There was a further query relating to the findings of the valuation. And this resulted in a 
delay to the completion of the purchase. I understand though that the purchase did go ahead 
and completed in August 2020.
While that issue was going on, Openwork contacted Mr A to say it understood completion 
was scheduled and asked him when a convenient time would be to pay the fee due.
Mr A complained to Openwork. He said he felt that the service hed been provided was poor. 
He said he didnt think Openwork had done enough to progress the matter or keep all of the 
relevant parties updated. And he was unhappy that it had requested payment, when the 
mortgage had not completed, something which it ought to have known. 
Openwork said it didnt think it had done anything wrong in how it had handled the 
application. In its response it also questioned the urgency of completion that Mr A had 
referenced.
Mr A raised a further complaint about the contents of this response, as he felt the person 
that handled his complaint had accused him of lying.
Openwork accepted that it wasnt necessary for the urgency of completion to have been 
addressed or questioned and apologised to Mr A. Unhappy with Openworks response, Mr A 
asked our service to consider his complaint.
One of our Investigators did so but didnt think Openwork had delayed matters and didnt 
think it was unreasonable for it to request payment when it did. She also said that complaint 
handling was not a regulated activity, so couldnt comment on Openworks response.
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain Im only looking at Openworks actions when considering this 
complaint. As with any house purchase and mortgage application, there have been a 
number of parties involved  including solicitors, surveyors, the seller and the lender. But Im 
only looking at whether I think Openwork has done something wrong and caused Mr A a 
loss. Mr A has said Openwork suggested the solicitors he used, so it should be responsible 
for delays the solicitors had caused. But I dont agree. The solicitors were not an agent of 
Openwork and were acting for Mr A. So, I cant hold Openwork responsible for their actions.
The purpose of Mr A speaking to Openwork was for it to provide mortgage advice and 
arrange a mortgage. Both of which it did. Ive seen evidence Openwork undertook a fact find, 
made a recommendation based on Mr As circumstances and that a mortgage has ultimately 
been arranged. I think the information provided throughout has been clear about the fee for 
Openwork doing this. So as a starting point, Openwork seems to have done what it said it 
would. And I think it is fair that it asked for the agreed fee to be paid.
Mr A has said he is unhappy with the service Openwork has provided, saying that he did a 
lot of chasing himself to other parties and doesnt think Openwork progressed the matter 
efficiently or shared the information it should with each of the parties involved.
Openwork provided a mortgage illustration promptly, after assessing Mr As circumstances. 
It then proceeded with an application once Mr A informed it he wished to go ahead. And I 
dont think Openwork caused any unreasonable delays in the initial part of the application.
As part of the mortgage application a valuation was required by the lender  which is 
common practice in mortgage applications. This was initially delayed by the pandemic  
which was outside of Openworks control. And then it was later delayed as the surveyor 
couldnt access the property when they first attempted to do so. Nothing Ive seen suggests 
this was because of an error by Openwork either. The delay to the valuation, approximately 
three months, seems to have accounted for the majority of the time the application took. But 
Im satisfied that this was outside of Openworks control and not something it is responsible 
for.
From the information provided Openwork seems to have been regularly chasing the lender 
and valuer to try and find a solution in order to expedite the valuation. Mr A was doing the 
same and managed to get the valuation moved forward by a couple of days. But I dont think 
this means that Openwork has done something wrong.
Mr A says Openwork didnt update all the parties about the delays in the valuation, and that 
led to the seller threatening to withdraw. He also says it told him not to pay for legal searches until a mortgage offer was provided. Mr A believes this advice was incorrect as it 
wouldve caused further delays and potentially led to the purchase falling through, which is 
partially why he ignored it.
As Ive said, the delays with the valuation were outside of Openworks control. It isnt clear if 
Openwork kept all parties informed about this  although the lender was already aware as it 
instructed the valuation. I note though Openworks role was to act for Mr A in arranging the 
mortgage. In any event, Im not sure if Openwork had done more that it wouldve made a 
difference. All it couldve done was say there was a delay, not reduce it. And I dont think this 
wouldve necessarily changed the sellers position.
Ive seen the emails between Openwork and Mr A in which it said it generally wouldnt 
recommend paying for legal searches until a mortgage offer was obtained. And I understand 
why it said this. There was still the chance that the results of the valuation wouldve led the 
lender to decline the application. The search fees wouldve been non-refundable, so 
wouldve been lost had this happened. Taking this into account, I dont think Openworks 
suggestion was unreasonable  particularly given the emails Ive seen indicate that, when 
Mr A asked about whether he should pay for searches, he hadnt yet indicated to Openwork 
that he was under pressure to complete by a certain date.
A mortgage offer was issued by the lender shortly after the valuation was completed. And 
Openwork provided a copy to Mr A. I think it was reasonable, at that stage, for Openwork to 
believe that the matter was due to be concluded and that the solicitors involved would be 
finalising everything.
Mr A has said, by that point, he was under pressure to complete the matter by a set date  
as his existing accommodation would no longer be available and the seller wanted the 
matter resolved or may withdraw. And he said he spent a lot of time speaking to the relevant 
parties about this. I can understand why this was frustrating and stressful for Mr A. But I 
dont think Openwork did anything wrong up to the mortgage offer being issued. And it 
wasnt in my view responsible for the time pressure he then faced  nor does it seem to have 
been aware of this until shortly before the mortgage offer was made. The information Ive 
seen indicates that Openwork did contact the lender for updates. But I dont think there was 
much else it couldve reasonably done  as the delay was due to an ongoing enquiry 
between the solicitors, lender and surveyor, not involving Openwork.
Taking everything into account, I think Openwork has done what Id reasonably expect it to 
have in relation to Mr As application and I dont think it has caused any unreasonable 
delays.
Mr A is unhappy that Openwork asked for its fee to be paid before the mortgage had 
completed. But I dont think it has acted unreasonably. It had arranged a mortgage and the 
lender had provided a mortgage offer. The information in the mortgage offer explained that 
the fee was payable at offer stage and wasnt refundable if the mortgage didnt subsequently 
go ahead. Based on this, I think it was reasonable for Openwork to ask about payment of the 
fee. 
Mr A has said he is unhappy that Openwork suggested the matter was due to complete 
when it asked for payment but was in fact aware of the ongoing delay. But based on what 
Ive seen, I think, at the time, it was reasonable of Openwork to believe that completion was 
scheduled. In any event though, as I think it had done what was required of it by that point 
anyway for the fee to be due, I dont think the content of the request for payment not being 
entirely accurate means that Openwork should refund its fee.
Mr A is also unhappy with the content of Openworks response to his complaint  in particular how the investigation was carried out and that the complaint handler accused him 
of lying. Our Investigator said that complaint handling was not a regulated activity so they 
would not be commenting on this point. And that is true  complaint handling itself is not a 
regulated activity. And we can generally only consider complaints about regulated activities. I 
note here though that Openwork did acknowledge that it wasnt necessary to question the 
point Mr A had made and so apologised. While I dont doubt Mr A found this issue upsetting, 
as Openwork apologised, and did so promptly, I wouldnt be asking it to do anything more in 
relation to this issue.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman