DRN-3739684
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his property insurer Aviva Insurance Limited as it declined his 
claim for a boundary wall which collapsed during a flood.
What happened
There was a flood in January 2021  parts of the field adjoining Mr Hs home, as well as the 
homes garden were under water. The boundary wall  made of specialist materials  
collapsed and Mr H made a claim. Aviva declined the claim because, it said, there hadnt 
been a storm. 
In July 2021 Mr H decided to challenge Avivas decision. Aviva reviewed the claim and said 
the wall was old, so it had likely been affected by wear and tear. Aviva said, as such, it 
wasnt minded to change its view on the claim. And Mr H complained to us.  
During the course of our complaint Mr H provided some expert reports on his wall. And 
Aviva, in July 2022, sent a loss adjuster to Mr Hs home to assess the wall. Avivas loss 
adjuster felt the wall hadnt been maintained. Aviva maintained its decline of the claim. 
Our Investigator, having taken all the reports into account, said he felt the wall had most 
likely suffered due to wear and tear, rather than having been affected by a one-off instance 
of flooding. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H was unhappy. His complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
My view on the expert reports differed to that of our Investigator. I felt the complaint should 
be upheld with Aviva needing to settle the claim and pay £500 compensation. So I issued a 
provisional decision to explain my views on this to both parties. My provisional findings were:
Having done so I intend to uphold it. If my final decision remains the same and Mr H 
accepts it within the deadline set, Aviva will have to reinstate the wall and pay £500 
compensation. Ive set out my views below and both parties will have a chance to respond 
before I make my final decision.
In my view Aviva failed Mr H at the first notification of his claim. Seemingly Aviva only looked 
at things at that stage on the basis of whether or not a storm had occurred. Whilst I know 
Mr H had mentioned heavy rain there doesnt necessarily need to be a storm for flooding to 
occur. Mr H accepted Avivas assessment initially, and that is understandable  it is the 
insurance expert. It was July 2021 when Mr H reverted back to Aviva. So his claim was 
delayed by around seven months or so at the outset because of Avivas initial failure to 
properly consider the claim.
I think Aviva then failed Mr H again when it reviewed the claim. It didnt have anyone attend 
to assess the wall. And Aviva didnt even ask Mr H for any evidence or photos of the wall or 
flood event. Rather Aviva chose to assume that because this is an old wall, it must have 
failed due to wear and tear. I think that was unfair and unreasonable of Aviva to make an 
important claim decision like this based on no more than an assumption.
Both parties though then did obtain expert reports. Mr H from specialist contractors and 
Aviva from its loss adjuster. On this occasion I prefer the evidence of the contractors. The 
wall in question is built of specialist materials and I havent seen that the loss adjuster has 
any particular specialist knowledge in this area. In fact, having read his report, he doesnt 
seem to have taken the specialist nature of the wall into account at all. I also bear in mind 
that because Aviva declined the claim on incorrect grounds at the outset and actively chose 
not to have anyone assess the wall when it had the opportunity to review the claim in 
July 2021, that it was 18 months after the event when the loss adjuster viewed the wall and 
made his report. So, before even taking the specifics of his report into account, Im not 
persuaded that its fair to give it much weight.
Ive looked at some of the specifics though. The adjuster seems to have come to 
conclusions about Mr Hs wall by viewing the walls that remain in the area around it. But 
I think the adjuster has failed to take into account the rebuild date of one of the nearby walls, 
and that another may sit on slightly higher ground. So it seems neither of these walls would 
have been affected in the same way as Mr Hs. So I dont think they give any indication 
about why Mr Hs wall might have fallen.
I also note the loss adjuster suggests that signs of previous maintenance to the wall might 
suggest it hadnt been in good condition. And that brick piers which still remain may not have 
been in good condition  which might have affected the walls stability. But on the point of the 
previous maintenance  capping tiles having been replaced  this merely shows the wall 
was looked after. And I bear in mind that independent advice about this type of wall says that 
ensuring the wall remains capped is an essential part of maintaining its integrity. So the 
presence of replacement tiles shows it was being maintained. And Ive not seen any 
evidence of missing tiles  which might suggest Mr H hadnt maintained it during his time at 
the property. Regarding the brick piers I note they are still standing and so Im not persuaded 
that a lack of some mortar in them caused a whole section of wall to fail  a whole section 
that was also partly submerged under floodwater.
The report from Mr Hs contractor is brief. But essentially says there is no sign of the wall 
having suffered long-term water damage. The contractor believes the flood caused the 
damage. And, for me, that seems to make sense given the independent advice Ive seen 
about these type of walls  seemingly they need little maintenance and will dry and/or be 
free draining as long as the base area is kept clear. Ive seen a photo from Mr H, and photos 
found on the internet by Avivas loss adjuster of the wall  seemingly soil was not built up 
against the wall. However, seemingly walls like this will suffer if they cant drain or water gets 
inside them. Looking at the significant flood which occurred here, I think its very likely the 
wall would have been negatively affected. And nothing Aviva has presented makes me think 
that it is more likely that the walls collapse was unrelated to the flooding and caused due to 
its (likely) poor condition.
So, Aviva has not satisfied me that it fairly and reasonably declined Mr Hs claim for flood. 
I think it must now settle the claim. The policy allows Aviva to choose how it does that. Often 
an insurer will want to arrange and complete repairs. However, I dont know if Aviva will have 
specialist contractors at its disposal that may be able to complete this type of skilled work. If 
it doesnt then it will have to settle the claim based on the cost Mr H will incur to get the wall 
reinstated. Aviva may think its liability for reinstatement will only extend to rebuilding the 
collapsed part of the wall. But Im not persuaded that would be reasonable here. Mr Hs 
reports suggest the flood affected the rest of the wall as well, although not so much that it 
collapsed. But also now the wall has been in an incomplete state with parts of it exposed to 
the weather for some considerable time. So I dont think that rebuilding the collapsed section 
only would equate to a reasonable reinstatement. I mention this now so it can be taken into account by Aviva when it is deciding the extent of its lability for reinstatement with a view to 
settling the claim.
In terms of compensation I bear in mind that Mr H and his family have now not been able to 
use their garden freely for two summers. Theyve also had additional concerns about safety 
at the property with the boundary wall down and the property left vulnerable as a result. 
I think Aviva should pay Mr H £500 compensation.
Mr H said he agreed with my findings and had nothing further to add. But when Aviva replied 
objecting to what I had said, Mr H responded to the points Aviva had raised.
As noted above, Aviva objected to my provisional decision. It had one of its technical 
oversight consultants give a view on the claim outcome and my findings, given the reports 
and photos available. In short, the consultant said that his opinion was that the claim should 
remain declined. He said it was his view that the wall was exhibiting signs of wear and tear 
and Mr H had been negligent in not carrying out any maintenance. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Avivas response to my provisional findings. But it hasnt changed my view 
on this complaint. The technical consultant acknowledges that this is an unusual type of 
construction that does not require much maintenance  but then seeks to criticise Mr H for 
not having done any maintenance. He also argues that the way the wall fell is not consistent 
with how walls, which are swept away by flood waters, collapse. But at no time has it been 
suggested that this wall collapsed because fastmoving flood waters had swept its base away 
whilst moving through the point where the wall stood. His comments in this respect are 
totally at odds with the issues at the heart of this claim and complaint  that this type of wall, 
due to its unusual construction, is vulnerable to the type of standing flood water which it was 
subjected to prior to its collapse.
Ive only noted a couple of points above from what the consultant has said, but I have taken 
everything into account. Overall, I dont find the consultants view of this compelling and it 
hasnt persuaded me that my assessment of the available evidence, as set out in my 
provisional decision, is unfair and/or unreasonable. As such my provisional findings, along 
with the comments Ive made here, are the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva to:
Settle the flood claim for Mr Hs wall, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy, such as excess. But taking into account my comments above about needing 
to pay Mr Hs cost to reinstate it if it cant provide suitably skilled specialist contractors to 
complete the work.
Pay Mr H £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman