DRN-4189833
The complaint
Mr B complains Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly approved a hire 
purchase agreement which he couldnt afford. 
What happened
Mr B took out a hire purchase agreement with SMFL on 11 April 2019. The cash value was 
£7,000 and the total amount repayable was £10,670.32. The monthly repayments were 
£222.09, and the duration of the agreement was 48 months with an option to purchase fee of 
£10. The APR was 24.9%. Neither party have provided our service with a copy of the 
agreement, but they have confirmed the terms, and this hasnt been disputed. 
Mr B is represented in his complaint. The representative contacted SMFL to complain on 31 
October 2022. The representatives said SMFL should not have entered into the agreement. 
They said Mr B had four late or missed payments in the three-month period leading up to the 
lending decision. They also said Mr B had to take out further borrowing which showed his 
dependency on credit. They said SMFL had failed to conduct thorough, appropriate, and 
reasonable checks, specific to Mr Bs application. 
SMFL responded to the complaint on 3 January 2023. It said Mr B told it he earned £2,500 
per month, was 28 years old, single and living at home. It also said it reviewed Mr Bs credit 
history which included eight active credit items, six defaults more than 18 months before the 
application and seven settled credit items. It obtained information from a credit reference 
agency to estimate Mr Bs cost of living and established the lending was affordable. It 
concluded the checks had been adequate and the loan affordable at the time. 
Mr B remained unhappy and asked our service to investigate. Our Investigator felt the 
checks were not proportionate and said SMFL should have done more to establish Mr Bs 
financial circumstances leading up to the lending decision. Our Investigator said SMFL 
should have done more to verify Mr Bs income and expenditure. However, our investigator 
felt even if SMFLs checks had been proportionate, it would have found the agreement was 
affordable and repayments sustainable. 
Mr B didnt agree with our Investigators view. Mr B said his basic wage after tax was around 
£1,600 to £1,700 per month. He said he had to double the number of hours he worked to 
reach his income. He also said he had a severe gambling problem for years and this is 
something they might have considered had they seen his bank statements. Therefore, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We explain how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. SMFL needed to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly as set out in the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). In practice, what this means is that SMFL needed to carry out proportionate checks 
to be able to understand whether any lending was affordable for Mr B before providing it. 
In this case, there are two overarching questions that I need to answer to fairly and 
reasonably decide Mr Bs complaint. These two questions are: 
1. Did SMFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
If not, would those checks have shown Mr B wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did SMFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Did SMFL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr B would be 
able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way? 
SMFL have told us Mr B confirmed he was single, 28 and living with parents when applying 
for the credit. Mr B also said he had an income of £2,500 a month. It said it verified Mr Bs 
income through a credit reference agency which assessed affordability. It took into account 
Mr Bs estimated cost of living and rent, as well as Mr Bs credit commitments. And it 
estimated Mr B had disposable income of around £1,800. This information confirmed Mr Bs 
income had not been overstated and the application was auto accepted on the basis it was 
affordable.  
Ive reviewed the credit history obtained by SMFL. I can see it showed Mr B had six 
defaulted accounts and the total default balance was around £2,000. The most recent 
default to the lending decision was recorded in November 2017. It also showed Mr B had 
eight active accounts and seven settled credit accounts. It recorded his monthly credit 
commitments as being £394.60. 
Having considered this, I think the information SMFL had about the defaulted accounts 
should have prompted SMFL to carry out more checks to verify Mr Bs income and 
expenditure, so it had a clearer picture of his financial circumstances at the time. I dont think 
it was reasonable to rely on the information obtained from the credit reference agency and 
SMFL should have done more to understand Mr Bs specific circumstances. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr B would be able to repay 
the agreement without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial 
situation?
As I dont think reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out, Ive thought about 
what such checks were likely to have shown and whether SMFL was likely to still have 
agreed to lend to Mr B. I think these checks should have included verifying Mr Bs income 
and expenditure. 
Ive carefully considered Mr Bs bank statements which cover the three-month period leading 
up to the lending decision. Im not saying SMFL had to gather bank statements. However, I 
think theyre likely to provide relevant insight into Mr Bs financial circumstances at the time. 
In response to the view, Mr B said his income was less than identified because he carried 
out overtime. He has provided a copy of his payslip which confirmed his basic pay was 
around £1,975. However, I can also see from his payslip from January 2019 he had received a cumulative total of around £31,377 for what seems to be a ten-month period as stated on 
the payslip. So, SMFL could have reasonably concluded Mr B consistently carried out 
overtime and could expect to receive more than the basic pay. 
Having reviewed Mr Bs income for the period leading up to the lending decision, I can see 
he received on average around £2,500 a month. This is in line with what he had declared to 
SMFL. On this basis, I think its likely this is what SMFL would have found had it carried out 
proportionate checks and its reasonable for them to rely on the income including overtime 
because the evidence showed he had received over and above the basic pay. 
There are also a number of committed expenses including to the DVLA. There also appears 
to be a regular payment to family which seems to cover living expenses as he told SMFL he 
was living at home at the time of taking out the agreement. He also had other regular 
commitments including a payment towards a debt charity for around £262 and payment 
towards a loan for £128.82. He also made contributions to reducing his credit card balance 
and had some overdraft charges. I note his account would be brought back out of his 
overdraft when he received his salary. Having considered all of this, Mr Bs committed 
expenditure seems to have been around £1,000. As he had a monthly income of £2,500, Im 
satisfied it seems he would have had sufficient remaining funds to meet the monthly 
repayments of £222.09 under the hire purchase agreement. 
Ive also thought about what Mr Bs credit file shows. I can see Mr B took out some payday 
lending agreements in 2018 and 2017. SMFL have said Mr B had six defaulted accounts all 
occurring more than 18 months before the start of the agreement. I can see his recent credit 
report shows the balance of four of these defaulted accounts with a total balance of around 
£2,000. The most recent defaulted account seems to be from November 2017. I can also 
see he entered an arrangement to pay in April 2017 which was settled in September 2017. I 
appreciate this does demonstrate Mr B had some difficulty meeting his financial 
commitments at this time. But sometime had passed before he entered into the agreement 
with SMFL, so Ive also thought about his credit history in the period closer to entering the 
agreement. 
Mr B had eight active credit accounts at the time of the agreement. I can see he did have an 
arrangement to pay but seems to have been paying this each month without issue. In 
addition to this, he had three late/missed payments in the 18 months leading up to the 
agreement. However, Im satisfied the information shows Mr Bs finances were being 
managed reasonably well and he was meeting the repayments. Having considered Mr Bs 
income and expenditure, Im satisfied it seems he had sufficient means of meeting his 
financial commitments and making the monthly repayments under this hire purchase 
agreement. 
In response to the view, Mr B has said he had to borrow money from friends and family to 
support him, and he has a gambling addiction. I have asked Mr B for some more information 
to understand the circumstances and whether its something SMFL would likely to have 
become aware of through proportionate checks. 
Ive considered the incoming and outgoing payments as shown on Mr Bs statements. But 
the statements Ive seen dont evidence the difficulties Mr B was having here. He has 
explained the gambling transactions wouldnt show on his account because he was part of 
the self-exclusion scheme, but he was transferring money to his brother in order to gamble. 
Mr B has provided his brothers bank statement from April 2019 to demonstrate this. 
However, I dont think this is something SMFL were likely to obtain if it had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and I dont think the information they did have would have alerted it to the problems here. Overall, the evidence Ive seen doesnt persuade me 
SMFL would have otherwise been informed even if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
However, I can see he received a large payment from his brother and Mr B has explained 
this was a loan. He was to repay £250 a month. Ive factored this into the disposable income 
Ive identified, and Im satisfied Mr B had sufficient funds to cover this, his credit 
commitments, cost of living payments and the monthly repayments under the hire purchase 
agreement. 
Therefore, Im satisfied had SMFL carried out reasonable and proportionate checks its likely 
it would have found the agreement was affordable. Whilst the credit file does show Mr B had 
some previous difficulty meeting financial commitments, the information leading up to the 
agreement showed he was managing things fairly. Additionally, his income seems to have 
been sufficient to meet his active financial and credit commitments, with sufficient remaining 
for the monthly repayment of £222.09.
I appreciate there were other circumstances which impacted Mr B and I know my decision 
will be disappointing. But based on the evidence I cant conclude its likely SMFL would have 
become aware of such circumstances had it completed proportionate and reasonable 
checks. This is because it seems such checks would have shown the agreement was 
affordable. Therefore, I wont be asking SMFL to do anything to resolve the complaint.   
Did SMFL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
Having considered the evidence, Ive no reason to conclude SMFL acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in some other way. Therefore, I cant say they should have done something 
differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman