DRN-3046018
The complaint
Mr T complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc has made an error in its interest 
calculations on a fixed sum loan and has not explained how it has calculated the interest.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
The world of interest rate calculations is somewhat complex and often not as straightforward 
as one might hope. However, I believe Santanders calculations are correct and I will 
endeavour to explain why I have reached that conclusion. I appreciate Mr T has made use of 
various online tools including one provided by Santander, but there are a wide range of 
loans and different ways of calculating interest.
Mr Ts loan is a fixed sum loan for £24,268 with an annual percentage rate (APR) of 2.9%. 
Santander has helpfully provided Mr T and this service with an amortisement statement. This 
shows the capital and interest due each month.
Mr T pays the same sum every month, but the split between capital and interest paid 
changes each time. The interest reduces and the capital repaid increases. That means there 
isnt a regular linear reduction in capital.
For example, in the first month Mr T owed £24,268 and he was charged interest of £57.88. 
This is 2.9% of the capital sum by the number of days in the period chargeable.   In simple 
terms this is calculated as £24,268 x 2.9% / 12 = £58.65. My calculation is a little rough and 
ready and uses 12 as a denominator rather than the precise number of days, but I trust it 
illustrates the calculation. One can repeat this calculation for each month and obtain the 
same result.
So, I believe Santander has calculated the loan interest correctly and it did send him the 
statement which shows this. I note Mr T didnt feel this was sufficient, but I dont consider the 
banks response unreasonable. 
Furthermore, the details of the interest and the monthly repayments were all set out in the 
loan agreement so Mr T had the opportunity to see what he agreed to pay even if he wasnt 
totally aware of the detailed interest calculations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman