DRN-4210383
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In June 2022, Mr W was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers. The agreement was for £5,500 over 36 months; with 35 monthly repayments 
of £194.72 and a final payment of £204.75. At the time the car was around eleven and a half 
years old and had done 106,170 miles.
The car broke down on 18 December 2022. The supplying dealership collected the car on 6 
January 2023. They told Mr W there was a problem with the engine, that it required 
replacing, and that he would have to contribute towards the cost of repair. Mr W didnt think 
this was fair, and he complained to Close Brothers.
Close Brothers arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car, but the inspection 
couldnt take place because the car battery was dead. So, the car has remained untouched 
at the dealership, and Close Brothers havent issued any response to Mr Ws complaint.
As Close Brothers didnt issue a final complaint response letter within eight weeks of 
receiving the complaint, Mr W brought his issues to us for investigation.
Our investigator said she was satisfied there was a fault with the engine but couldnt say 
what caused this. She also said she was satisfied the car broke down within six months of it 
being supplied to Mr W, as he had supplied text messages from the day of the breakdown. 
So, she thought it was Close Brothers responsibility to show whether the issue that caused 
the breakdown was present or developing at the point of supply.
As Close Brothers hadnt done this, and instead argued that the car mayve broken down 
after Mr W had had it for more than six months, the investigator said theyd caused Mr W to 
wait an unreasonable period of time and caused him significant inconvenience. As such, 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), it was reasonable to let Mr W reject the car.
The investigator said that Close Brothers should refund Mr W any payments hed made 
since the car broke down, plus statutory interest, as well as paying him £350 for the trouble 
and upset hed been caused.
Close Brothers didnt agree with the investigator and they didnt agree there was any 
evidence that showed the car had broken down within the first six months after supply. And 
they said that Mr W had only provided evidence that the vehicle cut out because the battery 
was flat and not due to a mechanical fault. 
Close Brothers also contacted Mr W and told him the text messages provided is not 
sufficient evidence that the supplying dealer was contacted within 6 months. As such, they 
asked him to provide an independent report on the car, at his cost, before they could 
respond to his complaint.
Because Close Brothers didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr W was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Close Brothers are responsible. 
Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a 
case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the 
vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last 
a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can show otherwise. But, where a fault is 
identified after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr W to show it was present 
when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr W took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right.
Its not disputed that theres a fault with the car, but the main point of dispute seems to be 
when the car broke down. Ive seen a text message exchange that took place in the evening 
of Sunday 18 December 2022, where Mr W explains that the car cut out outside a location 
where he had just dropped off his parents. He also says the battery was flat.
Close Brothers have taken the comment about the battery to mean that the car didnt 
breakdown at this point, and therefore mustve broken down on a later date. I could 
understand this argument if Mr W had tried to start the car at home, and it wouldnt start. And 
this would likely mean that something like the lights, radio etc. had been left on that resulted 
in the battery being drained.
However, the text exchange is clear that this happened mid-journey i.e. when he dropped his 
parents off. So, the alternator shouldve been charging the battery during the journey. Which 
means that, at the very least, the alternator had failed, and this meant the battery wasnt 
recharging. But I think its more likely than not that, after stopping the car to drop his parents 
off, the engine wouldnt restart. And Mr W assumed this was the battery. And this is very 
different to this definitely being the battery, and that the battery went flat for reasons other 
than an underlying mechanical fault or other issue.As such, Im satisfied that the car broke down on 18 December 2022. Its not disputed that 
Mr W didnt contact the supplying dealership about the issues with the car until January 
2023, which Mr W says was because they were closed for the Christmas and New Year 
break. Which seems a reasonable explanation. The car was supplied to Mr W on 23 June 
2022, which means it broke down within six months of supply, but the dealership werent 
notified of this breakdown until after six months from supply.
Close Brothers arguments about the car also seem to be based on when the supplying 
dealership was notified of the breakdown. But I dont consider this relevant as the CRA 
doesnt require any faults to be raised with the supplier within the first six months. But, as 
Ive already said, where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault 
was present when the car was supplied, unless Close Brothers can show otherwise.
Close Brothers instructed an independent engineer to inspect the car, with a view to 
identifying the fault and whether this was present or developing at the point of supply. 
However, this inspection couldnt go ahead as the battery was dead. As the car was at the 
dealership at the time, this wasnt something that was in Mr Ws control. So, I wouldve 
expected the dealership to either put a new battery on the car so the inspection could take 
place or arrange to charge the battery ready for a rearranged inspection. But neither of these 
actions took place. 
Instead, the car has remained at the dealership and Close Brothers have asked Mr W to 
arrange for an independent inspection to take place. I dont consider this to be a fair course 
of action as, because the car broke down within six months of supply, its for Close Brothers 
to show that the fault wasnt present or developing at the point of supply, not for Mr W to 
show that it was.
While the CRA allows Close Brothers one chance at repair, section 23 also says:
(2) if the consumer requires the trader to replace or repair the goods, the trader must  
(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
customer. 
The car has been with the dealership for around six months, during which time no action has 
been taken to identify the reason for the fault with the car, let alone repair it. And, during this 
time, Mr W has been without access to a car hes still paying for. Given this, Im not satisfied 
that Close Brothers have acted within the requirements of section 23(2)(a) of the CRA. As 
such, I dont think its reasonable that Close Brothers should still be given their one chance 
of repairing the car. And Mr W should now be allowed to reject it.
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car hasnt been drivable since 18 December 
2022, although I understand Mr W has continued to maintain payments to Close Brothers. 
As the car isnt drivable, and as Mr W hasnt been provided with a courtesy car to keep him 
mobile, I dont think its fair for him to pay for something he isnt getting the benefit of. So, I 
think that Close Brothers should also refund all the payments hes made from 18 December 
2022 onwards.Finally, Im satisfied that Mr W has been significantly inconvenienced and frustrated by 
whats happened. Despite the car breaking down within six months of supply, and Mr W 
providing Close Brothers evidence of this, they have continued to ask him to supply proof of 
when the car broke down, and to arrange and pay for an inspection on a car thats not 
currently in his possession. 
Whats more, they continued to do this even though theyd received our opinion that he 
should be given the right to reject the car. So, Im satisfied Close Brothers should 
compensate him for this. And they should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr W;
refund the payments Mr W has made from 18 December 2022 until the agreement is 
ended;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on this refund, calculated from the date Mr W made 
the payments to the date of the refund ;
remove any adverse entries relating to the above payments being refunded on Mr 
Ws credit file; and
pay Mr W an additional £350 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to take off tax from this interest. Close 
Brothers must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Close Brothers Limited. And 
they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman