DRN-1933137
 
Complaint
Miss M, who is represented by a third party, complains that she was mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store card in May 2002.
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
The PPI wouldve cost Miss M £1.00 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as I 
understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Miss M was off 
work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared.
In my provisional decision dated 19 May 2020 I explained why I was not intending to uphold 
this complaint for the reason given by our adjudicator. In addition, I explained why I was 
satisfied that Miss M was aware shed bought PPI and that the policy terms would not have 
put her off buying the policy. I set out an extract below: 
The adjudicator concluded that better information about the costs and benefits of the policy 
would have put Miss M off taking the policy out. This is because he thought Miss M had 
sufficient existing work benefits and savings available at the time of the sale. She told us 
recently that she would have received 6 months full pay followed by 6 months half pay. She 
also told us recently that she had no more than £3,000 in savings at the time of the sale.
Had it been the case that Miss M had provided a consistent account of her circumstances at 
the time of the sale, I may well have agreed with the adjudicator. But the information Ive 
been provided with is unclear and inconsistent which means I am unable to conclude that its 
more likely that Miss M did have sufficient repayment provisions in place.
For example, Miss M initially appears to have told AXA that she was entitled to 6 months full 
pay if she was off work sick. Miss M said she had between 6 and 12 months pay in her 
complaint and later told us she was entitled to 6 months full pay followed by 6 months half 
pay. In terms of savings it appears she initially didnt tell AXA about any savings, saying 
instead that he could have relied on her family to support her if necessary. When making her 
complaint to us she said she had a few thousand pounds in savings. But she later told us 
this was no more than £3,000  which could well be significantly less than £3,000.
Unfortunately, so far Miss M hasnt been able to provide us with proof of these savings.
I appreciate the sale took place a very long time ago and this may be the reason that Miss M 
is unable to recall how much she actually had in savings. But the difficulty is that based on 
this inconsistent information, I am unable to conclude that Miss M had sufficient cover in 
place at the time, such that this policy wouldnt have provided good value for her. I say this 
particularly as the PPI would have paid out in addition to Miss Ms existing means. And on at least one reading of Miss Ms sick pay and savings information, it would have done so for a 
longer period of time. And it would also have paid out if she lost her job.
If Miss M is able to sufficiently clarify her circumstances at the time of the sale with regards 
to her sick pay and particularly with regards to her savings then I could reconsider this 
aspect of the complaint.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in 
deciding this case.
I sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties. Neither party has come back with 
any further comments or any other information which they wanted me to consider before 
making my final decision. In these circumstances I see no reason to depart from the findings 
I made in my provisional decision.
It follows that I dont think Miss M has lost out as a result of the PPI and so I will not be 
requiring AXA to take any action to compensate her. 
My final decision 
For the reason set out above and explained in my provisional decision attached I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17July2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman