DRN-3361654
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the way Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited has 
handled his claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R had an accident while he was driving on the motorway, in which the rear of his car 
was damaged. He reported the incident to Markerstudy and said he wanted to claim for 
the damage to his car. Markerstudy arranged for the car to go to one of its authorised 
repairers, who Ill refer to as A. A produced an estimate for repairing the damage to the 
rear of the car. They said there was damage to the steering rack due to a steering track 
rod end having been heated up previously. They said it would cost around £2,500 to fit a 
new steering rack. Mr R has said when he went to A to discuss this, they suggested his 
car should be written-off. And when he said, if this happened, hed buy it back off the 
insurer, A said theyd prevent this.
Once A had told it about their concern with the steering rack Markerstudy offered a cash-
in- lieu settlement. It said it would only pay the amount quoted by A for the repairs, less 
the VAT until Mr R had had the repairs carried out; at which point it would reimburse the 
VAT element. Mr R was very unhappy about this, but felt he had little option other than to 
agree. A delivered his car back to him. Mr R has said when this was done in July 2020 the 
driver didnt wear a mask, despite the pandemic. Mr R also observed that the exhaust had 
become detached and was banging on the ramps, as it came off the delivery vehicle. 
Plus, he thinks A also damaged the rear suspension arm bush and this had to be 
replaced. 
Mr R has said when A retuened his car to him, they wanted him to sign a disclaimer 
which said it was a total loss. When he refused to sign this, they insisted he signed 
one saying it was unroadworthy.
Because Markerstudy excluded the VAT from the settlement amount it only paid Mr R
£5,730.87 net of the policy excess initially. Mr R has said this meant he couldnt afford to 
have all the repairs that were needed to the rear of his car carried out. So, he had work 
costing £5,400 carried out. He sent the invoice for this work to Markerstudy and it paid 
him a further £900 to cover the VAT on it. This means Mr R has received £6,380.87 to 
date, net of the policy excess. Mr R has said that to get the additional work required 
carried out will now
cost around £2,000.
Mr R has also said when he got his car back it hadnt been sanitised inside and the 
upholstery was dirty and marked. He paid for it to be deep cleaned and then valeted 
after it had been repaired.
Mr R has said A collected the courtesy car hed had from him without any warning. He 
thought it had been stolen and reported this to the police. Hes also mentioned the inside 
of the courtesy car was filthy and covered in animal hairs. Hes said this caused him to 
have an allergic reaction and he needed treatment from an ENT specialist. 
Mr R has also explained that when his car came back to him he discovered there was a 
problem with one of the wheels, i.e. it had been damaged. And the locking wheel nuts had 
also been damaged. He puts this down to A taking the wheels off without taking enough 
care and damaging both the locking wheel nuts and the wheel. Mr R had to pay for the 
locking wheel nuts to be fixed and for a new alloy wheel. Hes said sorting all this out also 
took a great deal of time and effort. Hes also said  because his car had been stationary 
for some time, he had to have the air conditioning checked and serviced. And he also had 
to have the car checked after it had been repaired to make sure it would pass an MOT.
Mr R has said he estimates he lost about one and a half days work as a contractor 
having to find a garage to repair his car and sorting out the locking wheel nuts. He thinks 
he should be compensated for this. Hes also said he was without his car for a long 
period as a result of Markerstudys failings, despite still paying his insurance premium. 
And, he had no car at all for five weeks, while his car was being repaired. He had to rely 
on friends and get taxis, as he didnt feel safe on public transport due to the pandemic. 
He estimates he spent around £600 on taxis in this period, which he paid for in cash. Mr 
R wants compensation for all of this, including something for the general distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what he considers was an unreasonable 
decision by Markerstudy based on incorrect information provided to it by A.
Mr R has provided evidence from a BMW specialist, which he thinks shows heating up a 
track rod end would not have caused a problem with the steering rack. His car also 
passed an MOT after it had been repaired without the steering rack being flagged as an 
issue, despite the fact it hadnt been replaced. Mr R is adamant this shows A fabricated 
the problem with the steering on his car.
Mr R also mentioned he felt Markerstudy was too quick to accept liability on his behalf for 
the accident.
Mr R complained to Markerstudy and it issued a final response letter. This only dealt with 
certain aspects of his complaint and did not address the problem with the courtesy car, 
as Mr R hadnt raised it at this point. Mr R asked us to consider his complaint and raised 
some further points. Originally, we only dealt with the points hed raised when he first 
complained to Markerstudy, but eventually Markerstudy reviewed the additional points 
and issued another final response letter. Markerstudy agreed we could look at all Mr Rs 
complaint points as part of this complaint.
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint in two stages. In his first view on it 
he concluded Markerstudy hadnt done anything wrong. He said it was entitled to settle 
Mr Rs claim on a cash-in-lieu basis and withhold the VAT. In his second view, he 
accepted the courtesy car was dirty and that this caused Mr R distress and 
inconvenience. And he suggested Markerstudy pay compensation for this, But, he still 
didnt support Mr R on his other complaint points. He didnt address Mr Rs concern 
about Markerstudy accepting
liability for the accident.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view and made lots of additional points. 
Markerstudy didnt accept it either, as it didnt accept the courtesy car was dirty. Its 
provided the document Mr R signed when he took it, which it thinks proves this.
Having reviewed Mr Rs complaint, I spoke to him at some length to check on the points 
hed made and clarify some things. He explained why there is now around £2,000 worth of work needed to finish the repairs to his car. He provided a rough breakdown of these 
costs from the repairer he used to do the repairs. He also provided me with details of the 
taxi journeys he made after he lost the courtesy car, while his car was off the road. Hed 
already provided invoices for the deep clean, valet, air conditioning service, fixing the 
wheel nuts, the alloy wheel, along with some other information.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 January 2022 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Markerstudy has explained that the reason it made a cash-in-lieu offer to Mr R was that its 
repairer thought there was a problem with the steering rack on his car following a 
geometry check. And theyd checked the track rod ends and discovered theyd previously 
been heated up. This led them to be concerned that when this happened the steering rack 
had also been heated up and that this may have caused damage to it.
Ive seen the geometry check Markerstudy has referred to and this does show there was a 
problem with the wheel alignment on Mr Rs car. And A also reported to Markerstudy that 
the front track end rods had been previously heated and that they were unable to adjust 
the steering. They also said this would be an MOT failure. And UK Government MOT 
guidance does say it is inappropriate to heat up stressed components and that the 
steering is considered a highly stressed component.
Mr R accepts the track rod ends had been heated up previously. So, while I appreciate 
Mr Rs point of view, I can understand why A was concerned about the steering rack 
and thought it needed replacing. And I dont think their concern was unwarranted or 
unreasonable.
I appreciate Mr R has now provided evidence to show that heating the track rod ends was 
acceptable and that they are just something to keep an eye on once this has been done. 
And his car did later pass an MOT without an issue being raised about the steering rack. 
But this doesnt mean that it was unreasonable for A to be concerned. I say this because, 
as I understand it, its possible a steering rack could be heated up when the track rod 
ends are heated. And this could cause a problem with the steering rack. Therefore, if a 
repairer knows the track rod ends have been heated and they have a geometry report 
showing a problem with wheel alignment, theyd be understandably concerned about the 
steering rack. And this was clearly the case with A.
As it turned out other mechanics who looked at Mr Rs car later were satisfied the 
steering rack was OK. And it was either not picked when the MOT was carried out or the 
garage that did it was happy with the steering. But this doesnt mean A were wrong to be 
concerned.
Mr Rs policy does give Markerstudy the option to pay the cost of the repairs to Mr Rs 
car instead of arranging for it to be repaired. So, I need to decide whether its decision to 
do this was reasonable in the circumstances.
I can see from exchanges between Markerstudys engineer and A that A told the engineer 
of their concern about the steering rack. And it was because of this that Markerstudy 
decided to make a cash-in-lieu off in accordance with the policy terms. And  bearing in 
mind I think As concerns were reasonable, I also think Markerstudys decision to make a 
cash-in-lieu offer was reasonable and that it was entitled to do this. It did this fairly soon 
after Mr Rs car had gone to A and more or less as soon as it became aware of As concerns. So, I also think it made the offer within a reasonable time.
Mr R being without a car for five weeks and the financial losses, the inconvenience and 
costs flowing from this were all as a result of Markerstudys decision to settle his claim 
on a cash-in-lieu basis. So, because I think its decision to do so was in line with the 
policy terms and reasonable, I dont intend to award anything for the losses and 
inconvenience that flowed from it.
As Ive already explained, Mr Rs policy does give Markerstudy the right to pay Mr R the 
cost of the repairs to his car, i.e. a cash in lieu settlement, as an alternative to arranging 
for it to be repaired by one of its approved repairers. But, I dont think this means 
Markerstudy was entitled to withhold the VAT. The cost of the repairs to a consumer - in 
this case Mr R  includes VAT, as they have to pay this. And I do not think its appropriate 
for an insurer to put a consumer in a position where he has to use his own funds to pay for 
a repair and face the possibility of not having sufficient funds to get all the repairs carried 
out initially, when the insurer has made the choice not to use its approved repairer.
Having spoken to Mr R, Im satisfied the fact Markerstudy unfairly withheld the VAT left 
him with insufficient funds to get all the work needed to his car completed. Mr R has now 
explained that to provide a proper estimate for the further work required his repairer will 
charge £300, because it will involve taking the bumper off and stripping the car down to 
some extent. Theyre not keen to do this without knowing theyll be doing the repair. 
Theyve given Mr R a rough cost based on the increased cost of labour and parts since 
he had the first part of the repair done. And Im satisfied that this is reasonable. This is 
because I know repair costs have gone up due to the pandemic and Mr R has explained 
how originally the repairer has said it would have cost about the same as Markerstudys 
repairer would have charged, i.e. around £6,900. It has now said its going to cost 
approximately £7,700 in total. This means Mr R should receive £7,450 for the repairs to 
his car, net of the £250 policy excess. Mr R has received £6,380 (rounded down to the 
nearest pound) so far from Markerstudy. So I think he should get a further £1,070 in 
settlement of his claim for the repairs to his car.
Because Markerstudy withheld the VAT and Mr R couldnt afford to get all the repairs to 
his car done at the same time, hes now going to be without his car for a further week, 
whilst the further work is done. As  in my opinion  this results from Markerstudy unfairly 
withholding the VAT, I think Markerstudy should cover the cost of a hire car for a week. Mr 
R has provided a reasonable quote for around £170, so I think Markerstudy should also 
pay him this amount in addition to the extra amount due for the remainder of the repairs.
I also think Markerstudy should pay Mr R compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of not being able to afford to get all the repairs 
done to his car. And for the delay in getting his car back, as he understandably challenged 
this decision. This must have been very frustrating and only happened because 
Markerstudy unreasonably withheld part of the amount due to him for the repairs.
I can understand A wanting Mr R to sign one of two disclaimers when they delivered his 
car back to him. One was to say the car was unroadworthy, which as far as they were 
concerned it was. And the other was to say it was a total loss. The second of these was 
because they estimated all the work that  in their opinion  needed doing on his car
(including replacing the steering rack) made it uneconomic to repair, i.e. a total loss. But I 
think the disclaimer referring to the car being a total loss was unnecessary and 
inappropriate. After all, whilst A had understandable concerns, theyd not actually 
estimated the cost of the repairs and didnt know for sure the steering rack needed 
replacing. So, I think asking Mr R to sign and disclaimer saying his car was a total loss was wrong and he should be compensated for the distress this caused him.
I asked Markerstudy to check with A regarding the damage to the wheels and locking 
wheel nut. Theyve said they did not remove the wheels from Mr Rs vehicle at any point. 
Mr R thinks they must have done, as he recalls last time he had tyres changed on his car 
the locking wheel nuts were fine. However, looking at the type of damage to Mr Rs car, I 
cannot see any good reason why A would have needed to take the wheels off to produce 
an estimate to repair it. If they needed to view the wheels or suspension, they could have 
put it on a car lift to look at the underneath of the car and check the wheels and 
suspension. And they would not have needed to take the wheels off to do a geometry 
check. So, I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to conclude that A caused the 
damage to the either the wheel on Mr Rs car or the locking wheel nuts. I appreciate Mr R 
will be disappointed about this, but I have to base my decision on what I think is most 
likely looking at the evidence available.
I asked Markerstudy to check with A whether they sanitised the courtesy car before they 
provided it to Mr R. And whether they put covers over the seats of Mr Rs car before they 
sat inside it, whilst it was with them. Theyve said that they sanitised all the touch points on 
the courtesy car and on Mr Rs car before returning it. But A havent provided any 
documentary evidence to show they did this or that they told Mr R theyd done it. So, I can 
understand why Mr R had the car cleaned inside when he got it back, as hed have been 
worried about contamination, bearing in mind it was fairly early in the pandemic. However, 
equally, if he was concerned Mr R could have called A and checked whether his car had 
been properly sanitised, but I cant see that he did.
In the circumstances, I think it is fair that Markerstudy pay half what it cost Mr R to have 
his car professionally cleaned to make sure it wasnt contaminated. This is because the 
reason he had this done was partly due to A not telling him theyd sanitised the main 
touch points and partly because he didnt call them to check. Im satisfied from the 
evidence Mr R has provided that he paid £100 for this. So I think Markerstudy should pay 
him £50 towards this.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr R had his car valeted after hed had it repaired. And I 
appreciate hes said this was because the inside was dirty when he got it back from A. But 
hes not provided photographs to show this and I cant see that he raised it with A at the 
time his car was returned or soon after. Therefore, I dont think it would be reasonable for 
me to make Markerstudy pay for the valet. Thats not to say it wasnt dirty, but I dont think 
it would be fair to ask Markerstudy to pay when Mr R didnt give them or A the chance to 
do anything about it. Also, whilst Ive got Mr Rs testimony this was the case, Ive also got 
a testimony from A to say they used plastic covering to protect the inside of the car. So I 
dont think Mr R has shown it is most likely the car was dirty because of a lack of care by 
A whilst it was in their possession.
I accept when A returned Mr As car the exhaust was loose and this banged on the ramps 
of the delivery truck. This is because I see no reason to doubt his testimony on this. 
However, I dont think this of itself warrants compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I dont think there is enough evidence for me to conclude A damaged the rear alignment 
bush on Mr Rs car. This is because they had no reason to touch this and it could have 
been damaged when Mr Rs car was hit in the rear.
I do think the driver who Mr Rs car should have worn a mask when he did this. This is 
because it was at the height of the pandemic and I think from a professional point of 
view it would have been reasonable. Unless, of course, he was medically exempt. But, 
Ive not seen any evidence that he was. The fact he didnt, clearly would have caused Mr R some distress.
Ive noted Mr Rs account of when A took the courtesy car back without telling him. And I 
accept Mr Rs testimony that this happened. This is because he reported the car as stolen 
to the police and has provided a crime reference. And I dont think hed have done this if A 
had told him they were coming to collect the car. Also, A cant provide any evidence to 
show they made contact with Mr R to make sure he was aware they were going to collect 
his car.
Collecting the courtesy car without telling Mr R was inappropriate and would have 
been distressing for him and inconvenient. And I think he should be compensated for 
this.
I also accept Mr Rs testimony on the state of the courtesy car he was provided with. This 
is because Mr R has been consistent on this since he first raised it and I cant see why 
hed have raised it if it wasnt true. Hes said the animal hair or whatever dirt etc was in it 
caused him to get an allergic reaction and this has led to a long period of unpleasant nasal 
symptoms, which he felt he needed to consult a specialist about. From what hes told me, 
Mr R had no such symptoms before he started using the courtesy car, so Im satisfied they 
were as a result of the state of the car. A have said they sanitised the main touch points of 
the courtesy car and theyve provided a copy of the check-in sheet Mr R signed when he 
collected the car. But the check-in sheet makes no reference to the state of the inside of 
the car and the fact the main touch points may have been sanitised doesnt mean it was 
clean inside generally.
Therefore, I also think Mr R should be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience flowing from the fact its most likely A supplied him with a courtesy 
car that hadnt been cleaned properly inside and the problems this led to for him.
I appreciate why Mr R had to have the air conditioning serviced on his car after he got it 
back. This is advisable and necessary when a BMW has been sitting unused for a long 
period of time. And at least part of the reason this happened was Markerstudys 
unreasonable decision to withhold the VAT due on the repairs to Mr Rs car. So I think it 
is fair and reasonable for Markerstudy to cover the cost of the air conditioning service. 
This cost £209 according to the invoice provided by Mr R.
In summary, in my opinion there were five failings on the part of A that caused Mr R 
distress and inconvenience. And  because A is Markerstudys agent  its responsible for 
them.
They were As unreasonable attempt to get Mr R to sign a disclaimer saying his car was 
a total loss, A collecting their courtesy car without warning Mr R, the fact the person who 
delivered Mr Rs car back didnt wear a mask, the fact the courtesy car was dirty inside 
and caused Mr R to have an allergic reaction. Plus, leaving Mr R not being able to afford 
to get all the repairs to his car completed. I think overall this caused him a significant 
amount of distress and inconvenience. And I think this warrants a compensation 
payment of £500.
Ive noted Mr Rs concern about Markerstudys decision to accept liability for the accident 
he was involved in. Markerstudy has the right to do this under the terms of the policy and 
Id only criticise it for doing so, if I thought its decision was unreasonable based on the 
circumstances of the accident. But, I dont. I think based on how Mr R described the 
circumstances, hed have been found to be fully responsible if the matter went to court. 
So , Markerstudy had no other sensible option other than to admit liability on Mr Rs 
behalf.My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive provisionally decided that Mr Rs complaint should 
be upheld and Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited should do the following:
Pay Mr R a further £1,070 in settlement of his claim.
Pay Mr R £170 so he can get a hire car whilst his car is in for further repairs to be 
carried out.
Pay Mr R £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Pay Mr R £50 towards the cost of having his car cleaned.
Pay Mr R £209 for the air conditioning service.
I gave both parties until 10 February to provide further comments and evidence. 
Mr R has responded to my provisional decision and provided many further points by 
telephone and by email and some further evidence and Ive detailed all of this below:
The Geometry report provided by A shows the front passanger side wheel was 
perfectly aligned when A started the check and by the end it was out of line. This is the 
wheel on which the track rod end had been previously heated up. The report also 
shows A adjusted the front drivers side wheel, but didnt align it properly and left it out 
of line. 
A raised the possibility of the steering rack being damaged to cover up the fact theyd 
damaged the locking wheel nuts by trying to get his car written off. And it wasnt a 
genuine concern. He has suggested the fact A never actually provided an estimate for 
repairing the steering rack, despite him asking for this, shows they knew there was 
nothing wrong with it. And he thinks the fact A tried to get him to sign a disclaimer 
saying his car was a write-off proves they were trying to get it written off.
The geometry report shows that A adjusted the tracking on the rear wheels of his car 
and he has said to do this they had to undo the bolt the suspension arm bush is in and 
he thinks they over tightened this and damaged the bush. He had to have this 
replaced and would like me to make Markerstudy pay for this. To replace this cost 
£170, plus a further £31 to have the tracking done again.
He understands that before adjusting the tracking Apollo would have needed to take 
the wheels off his car and he thinks they damaged the locking wheel nuts when they 
did this and damaged the rim on one of the wheels. He wants Markerstudy to pay the 
cost of having the locking wheel nuts sorted out and for a new alloy wheel. Plus, hed 
like compensation for the time he had to put in to get the wheel nuts sorted out. 
A should have told him theyd sanitised the car, as then he would have known he 
didnt need to bother having it done. 
A is lying about sending the car back to him dirty and he didnt raise it at the time, as 
there were many other issues of concern. So he still thinks Markerstudy should cover 
the cost of his car being valeted. 
What I awarded for the outstanding repairs to his car is not going to be enough, as 
repair costs have gone up in the last couple of years. Hes provided some further 
evidence in support of this. 
The £170 I awarded for a hire car whilst his car is in for repair isnt likely to be enough, 
as its based on the lowest quote he got and his car maybe in for longer than a week. 
He thinks I should award more for this.  
The £500 Ive awarded for distress and inconvenience isnt enough, especially considering all the hassle hes had putting together his submissions for his complaint 
and the health issues he suffered due to the pet hairs in the courtesy car. He should 
be compensated for not having his car for around five months.  
He should be compensated for the loss of a days work finding a repairer to repair his 
car, as this was only really necessary because of the concern A made up about the 
steering rack.
After he got his car back he had to get a mechanic to check it and get it ready for MOT 
and this should be covered as part of the repair cost. It cost £50.
He should have his hire car costs covered for the period after he got his car back and 
was waiting for it to be repaired. 
He should get the premium he paid back for the period his car was off the road, as he 
got no benefit from the policy in this period.
Markerstudy responded to my provisional decision and made the following comments:
A tried to contact Mr R regarding returning the courtesy car and spoke to him when he 
called in after it had been collected and said it had been stolen. They explained to him 
theyd collected it. So, Markerstudy dont think there was any need for Mr R to report it 
as stolen to the police.
A has said it doesnt have a total loss disclaimer that would have needed signing.
Having received Mr Rs and Markerstudys comments in response to my provisional 
decision, I reconsidered his complaint and wrote to Markerstudy to make some further 
points about As conduct and concerning further payments I intended to require them to 
make:
I pointed out Mr R had provided a copy of the total loss disclaimer hed been asked to 
sign by A. 
I said it should pay A further £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr R experienced as a result of As poor handling of the steering rack issue.
I said it should pay the cost of replacing the damaged suspension arm bush on the 
basis I thought it most likely A damaged this. 
I said it should pay the cost of sorting out the locking wheel nuts on the basis that I 
thought it likely A did remove the wheels on Mr Rs car and damaged them. And £100 
for the distress and incovnenience resulting from this. 
I said it should pay the cost of the new alloy wheel, as I thought it likely A damaged 
one of the alloy wheels when they took the wheels off Mr As car. 
I said it should pay £200 for a hire car, as I thought it likely it would cost Mr A more 
than £170. 
I sent a copy of my email to Markerstudy to Mr R for his comments and hes raised the 
following further points.
 
It took A too long to identify the issue with the track rod end and for Markerstudy to 
offer a cash-in-lieu settlement. 
He thinks he should get more for the time he used up to sort the locking wheel nuts. 
He thinks Markerstudy should pay for the healthcheck on his car that cost £50, which 
he had done after it was delivered back to him. 
He reiterated his view Markerstudy should be made to pay the cost of having his car 
valeted. 
Hes asked me to increase the amount for the hire car to £250.
Hes provided some further medical evidence to show that the fact the courtesy car 
was dirty caused him health problems. Markerstudy has now also come back with the following further comments from A:
They contacted Mr R numerous times to arrange the return of his car and collect the 
courtesy car. And none of these requests were answered. And they simply wanted to 
bring an end to the matter. I presume from this they are explaining this is why they 
collected the courtesy car without telling Mr R they were going to do so. 
The correct procedure for carrying out a four wheel alignment is to start at the back of 
the vehicle. Make adjustments to the rear geometry before any adjustments are made 
to the front. I have attached a clearer image of the geometry report and no 
adjustments were made to the front. As you can see the total toe for the front is the 
same before and after. The reason the toe is now showing out on the passenger side 
front is that the steering wheel is in a different position, hence the different readings.
Their technicians always follow procedures and would have torqued any suspension 
bolts and wouldnt have overtightened any fixigs and damaged any bushes.
To carry out wheel alignment there is no need to balance the wheels, so the wheels 
wouldnt have been removed from Mr As car. The only pre-requisite for carrying out 
an alignment check is that the tyres are at the correct pressure. They therefore dispute 
they damaged the locking wheel nuts and the alloy wheel. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its difficult to know for sure whether A removed the wheels from Mr Rs car. But, I have to 
decide whats most likely to have happened based on the evidence. On the one hand I have 
a testimony from Mr R that there was nothing wrong with the locking wheel nuts on his car or 
the alloy wheels. On the other hand I have a testimony from A saying they didnt remove the 
wheels. If they didnt this means that Mr R is lying about the locking wheel nuts and I think 
that is highly unlikely. And I also need to bear in mind that  according to Markerstudys 
records - A said the steering rack was damaged on Mr Rs car, when it doesnt seem it could 
have actually known this was the case. It knew a track rod end had been heated up and 
there was a chance this had damaged the steering rack, but  as far as I know  it hadnt 
taken the steering rack apart to check this. And it should have known heating up a track rod 
end wouldnt necessarily cause damage to the steering rack. Also, A has claimed they didnt 
give Mr A a disclaimer to sign saying his car was a write off, whereas Mr R has provided a 
copy of the one they did actually provide to him. And for me, this suggests their testimony is 
less reliable than Mr Rs. Bearing all this in mind, Ive concluded it is most likely that A 
removed the wheels on Mr Rs car and damaged the locking wheel nuts and alloy wheel in 
doing so. 
I also think this shows it is most likely A also damaged the suspension arm bush. I say this 
because if A took as little care as it seems they took when removing the wheels, it also 
seems most likely they failed to take reasonable care when tightening the nut that I 
understand holds the suspension arm bush in place. 
This means I think Markerstudy should cover the cost of replacing the locking wheel nuts, 
the suspension arm bush and the cost of a new alloy wheel. Mr R has provided an estimate  
from a BMW specialist for the alloy wheel of £580, inclusive of VAT. But he has explained he 
paid a bit more than this and has provided an invoice to show he paid this. But, he accepts 
he could have used the BMW specialist and that he should only receive £580, which I think 
is fair. It cost Mr R £103.51 to have the locking wheel nuts removed and replaced and £201 
to have the suspension arm bush replaced and the tracking redone after this. So, I think 
Markerstudy should pay a further £884.51 to cover these costs. It also remains my view that 
Markerstudy should pay a further £100 for the distress and inconvenience Mr R experienced as a result of these issues. I appreciate he says he lost an afternoons work getting the 
locking wheel nuts sorted out, but it was his choice to spend work time on sorting this 
problem. I appreciate he may well argue he had little choice, but I still think it is more 
appropriate for me to award compensation for distress and inconvenience for this than it is 
for me to award for loss of income. 
I still think A made far too much of the fact that track rod end had been heated up on Mr Rs 
car. And this perhaps led to Markerstudy deciding to make a cash-in-lieu offer instead of 
getting A to repair his car. Although, Im not willing to speculate on As reason for doing so. 
And, I have to balance this against the fact that it was Markerstudys right under the policy to 
pay cash, as opposed to arranging the repair. So, taking this all into account, I think a further 
payment of £200 for the distress and inconvenience Mr R experienced around this issue is 
fair and reasonable. 
Bearing in mind I dont find As testimony reliable; Ive also decided to award Mr R the cost to 
him of having his car valeted. This is because Ive no real reason to doubt his testimony that 
it came back dirty and he would most likely not have had to pay to have this done if this 
hadnt been the case. This cost him £141.60. Im not going to award any more for the fact 
that Mr R had the car sanitised, because he had this done without checking with A whether 
theyd done this. But, equally I think A should have told him they had done so. So I still think 
£50 for this is fair.
Im not awarding more for the outstanding repairs than I suggested in my provisional 
decision, as I think Mr R should have had enough to get all the repairs needed completed if 
he receives a further £1,070. But if they cost more than this he will need to present the 
evidence of this. And Markerstudy should consider the evidence and pay more if the 
additional cost seems unavoidable and reasonable.  
I think it is reasonable for Mr R to get back the cost of the health check he had carried out on 
his car. This is because I appreciate his concern about it after he heard a bang when it came 
off the transporter when it was returned to him and the problems he'd had with A. Mr R paid 
£50 for this. I dont think Ive actually seen documentary evidence of this, but accept his 
testimony on it.
I dont think Mr A should get anything for a hire car whilst his car was in for repair. This is 
because Markerstudy was entitled to offer a cash settlement and this would never have led 
to it covering hire car costs. Neither do I think Mr A should get any of his premium back. I 
appreciate he couldnt use his car for a period of time. And perhaps this was longer than 
should have been the case. But  under the terms of his policy the full premium is payable in 
he event of a claim even if the policy is cancelled early. Therefore, I dont think it would be 
fair for me to make Markerstudy pay any of the premium back when it has paid out a 
substantial amount on Mr Rs claim. Plus, Mr R would always have had to pay this premium 
even if his car had been repaired quickly by A, so I dont think hes lost out financially in 
terms of premium. 
Im satisfied £200 is enough to cover the cost of a hire car whilst Mr Rs car is back in for 
repairs to be completed. It gives him some flexibility and it is what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that A contacted Mr R several times to try to get him to return their courtesy car. 
But, this doesnt mean it was right for them to simply turn up at his home and take it without 
telling him. So, I think the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of this still 
needs to be reflected in the overall award I make. 
Ive considered the further evidence Mr R has provided on his health issues. However, I think this sort of issue was really an unforeseeable consequence of a dirty hire car. 
Therefore, I think it would be quite harsh for me to award more compensation for it when 
someones health and why they might suffer following an allergic reaction is so difficult to 
pinpoint. Clearly, Mr R experienced some distress as a result of the problem with the 
courtesy car and all the other issues he experienced. But I still feel that the compensation of 
£500 I suggested in my provisional decision, along with the further £300 I am now 
suggesting for the issues Mr R had around the steering rack with A and the damage to the 
wheels on is car is enough overall.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint and make Markerstudy do the following:
Pay Mr R a further £1,070 in settlement of his claim.
Pay Mr R £200 so he can get a hire car whilst his car is in for further repairs to be 
carried out.
Pay Mr R £800 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Pay Mr R £50 towards the cost of having his car cleaned.
Pay Mr R £209 for the air conditioning service.
Pay Mr R £884.51 for the replacement of the alloy wheel, the locking nuts and the 
suspension arm bush.
Pay Mr R £141.60 for the valeting of his car.
Pay Mr R £50 for the healthcheck he had carried out on his car. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and order Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to pay him what I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman