DRN-2433956
The complaint
Mr A complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wrongly declined
his claim for the theft of his car under his car insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, and were set out in my
provisional decision, so I am not going to describe them again here.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld and I set out my reasons why. I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say theft isnt covered if the key is left in or on the
car. For LV to fairly rely on this term to turn down Mr As claim, it needs to show this is what
is most likely to have happened and that this facilitated the theft of the car. I dont think its
done that, and Ill explain my reasons why.
Ive read what Mr and Mrs A have said about why they havent been able to locate the
second key. Mr A has said that it might have been hidden by their children or taken by
workers that had been in their house. Mrs A confirmed she didnt know where the second
key was but that it might still be in the car, as it was when they purchased it.
LV has said that data from the key that Mr A did send it, showed that it was last used on
14 July 2019. This is a few days before the date that Mrs A recalls last using the car. LV has
suggested that this means the missing key was being used in the days prior to the theft, and
as it cant be located, it is most likely to have been in the car when it was stolen. Whilst I
cant be sure whether the key was left in the car, I need to be satisfied that it most likely was
and facilitated the thieves in stealing the car.
I have reviewed the CCTV footage which shows the theft. It shows two people walking along
Mr As road and clearly look at the car which is parked on his drive, before continuing to
walk. They then return a couple of minutes later. One of them appears to kneel down by the
side of the drivers door at the front of the car, and another approaches the house. Shortly
after this lights flash, indicating the car is unlocked. This makes me think that they couldnt
have accessed the car using a key in the car, as up to this point the car was locked. Shortly
after this the ignition starts and one of the thieves gets in. The other, wearing the rucksack,
makes their way around the car and walks up the road.
This appears to me to be like a relay system in use. Where one is by the car and one is by
the house. Considering that one key was inside by the door of the house, I am not
persuaded that even if a key had been left in the car, it had any impact on the success of the
theft. I am persuaded it was a relay system. I am also mindful that this appears to have been
a planned theft. It happened in a residential area where there isnt much footfall and it
happened in the very early hours of the morning. And the car was a BMW X5, which is a
common car to be stolen in this way.
Overall, I am more persuaded the car was stolen using a relay system by way of the primary
key, meaning the theft would have happened regardless of where the secondary key was. It
follows that I think LV were unfair to decline the claim.
Mr A responded to confirm that he accepted my findings.
LV responded to say that they didnt agree with my findings but had no further evidence to 
submit. They said they felt that there was no emphasis being placed on the missing key and 
the evidence to support its likely use in the days prior to the theft. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has accepted my findings and LV have not raised any new information or evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. 
So I find no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.
Putting things right
As Ive said, I think it was unfair for LV to decline the claim. So, I think it should accept the
claim and settle it in line with the remaining terms, conditions, excesses and limits of Mr As
policy. It should calculate the settlement based on the market value of the car at the date of
loss and include simple interest* at 8% per year from the date of loss to the date of
settlement. If LV chooses to use the settlement to repay the outstanding balance on the
finance agreement for the car, it should pay the difference to Mr A.
This claim wasnt handled fairly and has been going on for nearly 18 months. Mr A has also
had uncertainty over whether he would be responsible for a large debt to a car finance
company and the need to make payments every month for a car he couldnt benefit from.
Taking all of this into account, I think £250 fairly reflects the impact this matter has had on
Mr A.
  
My final decisionI uphold Mr As complaint and require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to: 
Settle Mr As claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions, excesses and
limits of his policy;
Calculate the settlement based on the market value of the car at the date of loss,
and include interest1 at 8% simple per annum from the date of the loss to the
date of settlement. If LV chooses to use the settlement to repay the outstanding
balance on the finance agreement for the car, it should pay the difference to
Mr A;
Pay £2502 to Mr A for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman
1 If Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should
also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
2 Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the
date on which we tell it Mr A accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay
interest1 on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.