DRN-4384473
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Starling Bank Limited registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In February 2023, Mr A opened a current account with Starling, then another bank shortly 
after. He registered his mobile phone to it, as well as his genuine phone number and email 
address, and verified himself with his passport and a video selfie. The card and PIN were 
sent to his home address. He later registered other devices, again using selfies.
In March 2023, Mr A received credits totalling around £1,100. Immediately after, his card and 
PIN were used for a cash withdrawal at his cash limit, then a number of further payment 
attempts which were declined. Similar activity happened with the other bank account.
Both banks received reports that the money Mr A had received came from victims of fraud. 
Starling asked Mr A about the payments, and received replies from his email and from a 
login he made using a video selfie. The replies complained about Starling blocking the 
account, claimed Mr A was entitled to the funds, and sent screenshots from interactions with 
the fraud victims to try to show that Mr A knew them. 
Starling closed Mr As account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
In April 2023, Mr A told Starling his phone and card were stolen and none of the activity was 
him. He denied replying to Starlings earlier messages, saying he never got their emails. He 
also denied registering the devices used to carry out the fraud. When the Starling advisor 
pointed out that Mr A had registered those devices using video selfies of himself, Mr A was 
unable to explain this and ended the call shortly after.
Later that same evening, Mr A emailed Starling from the same address theyd been 
messaging before. He admitted opening the two accounts used for fraud. He said a friend 
and their relative had met with him a number of times. They coerced him into opening each 
account and handing over the cards and his passport, which they still had. He never 
accessed the accounts. He didnt tell the truth before, because he was in fear from their 
threats. But hed since spoken to a solicitor and reported the matter to the police, whod 
advised him to be truthful.
Starling asked Mr A for evidence, like his communication with the friend, but he said he had 
none. He was unable to evidence speaking to the police, saying he didnt trust the police, 
and declined to send details of the solicitor he said was advising him. When questioned 
about his lost passport, he said he had in fact been given it back. He later made a police 
report, but was told that from what hed given them, they had no lines of enquiry to pursue. 
Starling did not agree to remove the marker.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to register this marker, Starling were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr A had done something wrong  this decision is about a civil complaint, not a 
criminal case. Starling did need to have reasonable grounds to believe that Mr A had 
misused his account, which went beyond a suspicion or concern, and which had appropriate 
supporting evidence. Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and 
provided, I think Starling did have sufficient grounds to register this marker. Ill explain why.
Starling, and the other bank involved, received multiple official reports that Mr A had 
received the proceeds of fraud from victims of crime. 
Im afraid that Mr As testimony has been inconsistent, implausible, and at times clearly 
untruthful, even after he said he would tell the truth from now on. At different times, hes said 
notably different things or been contradicted by objective evidence about what happened 
when, what his involvement was, which devices he registered, what happened to his 
passport, when he reported this to the authorities, and so on. Mr A says that hes forgetful, 
and a number of months have since passed. But the contradictions in his testimony cannot 
be explained by simple forgetfulness, and much of this testimony was given not long after 
the fraud.
Mr A was unable to provide any evidence to substantiate of his latest version of events  not 
even a single text message. But he said he met with the friend and their relative a number of 
times in order to open the accounts, hand over the cards, set up new devices, and so on. So 
they would need to have communicated to arrange these meetings. And the friend was 
someone who Mr A had supposedly known fairly well before this, so naturally they wouldve 
had a message history over text, messaging apps, social media, or the like. It is simply not 
plausible that he would have no evidence of talking to these people.
Mr A did send in screenshots purporting to be an email from a solicitor who supported his 
innocence. But he repeatedly declined to let Starling see the date, time, email address, or 
other data which could let them verify if this email was real or not. And the text contains a 
number of spelling and grammar errors which a legal professional would be most unlikely to 
make, but which mirror Mr As writing style. I am not satisfied that this email was genuine.
I appreciate why Mr A would like to see CCTV footage. Such footage is only kept for about a 
month as standard, so it wont still be available. And Starling are a bank, not a police force, 
so they were not able to demand camera footage from his accommodation block. Then even 
if theyd got CCTV from the cash machine involved, it wouldve only shown what the person 
making the withdrawal looked like. It would not have shown whether they were acting with 
Mr As knowing consent or not.Despite saying he didnt access the account at the time, Mr A used video selfies to operate 
the account a number of times during the period of the fraud. In these selfies, he read out 
access codes which had just been sent to him, so these were live videos. Mr A did not 
appear to be under any duress in these videos. And his selfies were used to facilitate the 
fraud. So Mr A was directly involved in the fraud.
Similarly, I can see that in the other bank account involved, Mr A carried out account activity 
right before the fraud using his biometric fingerprint. And while the fraud was going on, he 
also logged in to that account using his own phone at his genuine IP address.
While Mr A says he didnt speak to Starling in March, I can see that Starlings messages 
were sent to Mr As genuine contact details  the same details he still uses. And one of the 
replies was made after Mr A logged in using a video selfie. So I think its most likely that 
Mr A made that reply. At the least, I can see he wouldve been present and aware of it.
That reply argued that the fraudulent funds were Mr As, attempting to use screenshots of 
interactions with the fraud victims to claim entitlement to the money. It also contained a 
complaint about Starling blocking some payments. Those payments were attempts to 
withdraw the fraudulent funds. So again, this strongly supports that Mr A was aware of  and 
involved in  the fraud.
Indeed, Mr A received notifications about what was going on throughout the fraud, and 
wouldve been aware of the activity at the time. One such notification informed him about the 
credits coming in. Just seconds later, his card was then put in an ATM to withdraw the 
fraudulent funds. Its unlikely to be a coincidence that the fraudster knew to start withdrawing 
money as soon as a notification was sent to Mr A. Again, this suggests that he was likely 
knowingly involved in the fraud.
In summary, Mr A has given inconsistent and implausible testimony, and has at points been 
untruthful, which he accepts himself. Hes not been able to provide any evidence to 
substantiate his latest testimony, even when such evidence should be quite straightforward 
to provide. Theres no evidence which shows or substantiates that he was an unwilling or 
unknowing participant in the fraud. Whereas theres quite a bit of evidence which strongly 
suggests that Mr A was a knowing, witting participant in the fraud. On that basis, I find it was 
fair that Starling registered the appropriate marker at CIFAS. It follows that it was also fair for 
them to close his account, which they were allowed to do under the terms.
This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr A to 
receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman