DRN-1712030
The complaint
Mr R says that Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, acted irresponsibly when 
it lent him money in 2018.
What happened
In July 2018 Likely Loans lent Mr R £3,500. Mr R agreed to repay this amount, with interest, 
over 24 months. The monthly instalments were £229.35 a month  and so if he made each 
of these payments when due hed pay £5,504.40 in total.
Mr R made the payments until November 2018. He then fell into arrears.
Mr R now complains that Likely Loans was irresponsible to lend him this money. His 
representative says that Likely Loans lent him the money without any evidence of income or 
his ability to meet the repayments. His representative also says Mr R also gave an address 
in the UK when he applied for this loan when he was in fact living abroad  and that Likely 
Loans should have checked this.
Likely Loans thinks it carried out the checks it needed to before it decided to lend Mr R the 
money.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr R didnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
In particular, at this time the relevant rules were set out in the Consumer Credit sourcebook, 
which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Likely Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. This means it had to consider the 
potential for the commitments under this agreement to adversely impact Mr Rs financial 
situation, taking into account the information of which it was aware at the time it made the 
agreement. It also had to consider the ability of Mr R to make the repayments as they fell 
due over the life of the regulated credit agreement.
The rules didnt say what checks had to be carried out in every case. The rules said instead 
that checks depended on, and should be proportionate to, the individual circumstances of 
the lending. This might depend on things like the type and amount of credit, how much it 
cost, and Mr Rs circumstances at the time. 
Checks needed to go further than just looking at whether Mr R could repay the credit. Likely 
Loans needed to make sure Mr R could meet the repayments under the agreement in a 
sustainable manner without incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse 
consequences. This meant Mr R should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments. He 
should also be able to make the payments over the life of the agreement, out of income and 
savings without having to sell assets.
Finally, the rules said that Likely Loans mustnt accept an application for credit if it knew, or 
should reasonably have suspected that Mr R had not been truthful in completing the 
application for the credit in relation to information relevant to the creditworthiness 
assessment.
Ive kept this in mind when looking at Mr Rs complaint. And so I think the main questions I 
need to consider are:
Did  Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay each new loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in any other way?
Based on what Ive seen, Mr R applied for this loan in July 2018. He wanted to borrow 
£3,500 over 24 months. He said the purpose of the loan was to consolidate existing debt. So 
I think Likely Loans needed to check whether he could sustainably afford the monthly 
repayments of £229.35.
Ive first considered the information Mr R gave Likely Loans. He told Likely Loans he was 
self-employed, earning £21,600 a year.
Likely Loans says that alongside this it obtained a report from a credit reference agency. Ive 
seen a summary of this information. I see that, in addition to what Mr R had said about his 
income, Likely Loans took into account a number of other factors, including how much Mr R 
had borrowed from other lenders, how much he was paying towards his existing debt, and 
the number of other open accounts. It also took into account an indebtedness score 
produced by the credit reference agency  which indicated whether or not Mr R had a high 
level of existing indebtedness and was therefore likely to have trouble affording a new loan.
Likely Loans says that, based on this information, it concluded that this new loan was 
affordable. It thinks that based on what Mr R said about his income, he earned around 
£1,680 a month  and that even allowing for payments towards this new loan alongside his 
existing debts, hed be left with around £1,300 a month for other expenses.
Ive therefore gone on to think about whether further checks would have been proportionate.
Looking at all the information Likely Loans had at the time, I dont think there was anything to 
suggest that Mr R might not have been truthful about his income. The report from the credit 
reference agency suggests that Mr R was paying his existing debts on time. It also suggests 
that the payments towards his new loan were less than what he was paying towards his 
existing debt  and I note Mr R said he planned to consolidate his existing debt using this 
new loan. This was Mr Rs only loan, and his first with Likely Loans. The loan repayments of 
£229.35 a month were low when compared to his declared income. Considering all of this 
together, I dont think Likely Loans needed to carry out further checks on Mr Rs income, 
beyond the checks it had already made.Mr Rs representative also says that Mr R said he was living at an address in the UK when in 
fact he was living and working overseas. Mr Rs representative feels strongly that Likely 
Loans should have checked his address details before agreeing to lend. Ive thought about 
this. I see that the credit report shows that Mr R was no longer on the electoral roll at the UK 
address at the time he applied for this loan  though he had been previously. But at the 
same time, his credit card, which he was using, was registered to this address. As the 
information from the credit reference agency showed that Mr R had existing debt registered 
at this address, I think it was reasonable for Likely Loans not to check this further. It was 
consistent with what Mr R had told them.
For these reasons, I think the checks Likely Loans carried out were proportionate  and that 
it made a fair decision to lend to Mr R.
Having concluded that the decision to lend was fair, Ive gone on to consider if Likely Loans 
treated Mr R unfairly in any other way. 
I see that a few months after taking out the loan, in December 2018, Mr R missed a 
payment. Mr R told Likely Loans this was because hed lost his job. (Mr Rs representative 
has explained that Mr R stopped work following a bad accident.) He offered to make reduced 
payments of £50 while he was out of work. 
I see Likely Loans agreed to accept these reduced payments between January and March 
2019. In March Mr R contacted Likely Loans again to see if he could extend the 
arrangement. At this point, Likely Loans asked Mr R for details of his circumstances. He told 
them he was still living with parents, and had agreed repayment arrangements for his other 
commitments. Likely Loans agreed an extended payment arrangement - and then agreed to 
extend it once more; with Mr R making a final payment of £50 in June 2019. I understand 
that in October 2019 Mr R settled the account with the help of a third party.
Looking at all this I think Likely Loans dealt with Mr R fairly and sympathetically. Im also 
mindful that, as the interest on this loan was charged up front, Mr R wasnt charged any 
extra interest because of his arrears. So I dont think Likely Loans treated Mr R unfairly in 
any other way.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman