DRN-4067351
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a credit card. 
I want to make clear that this decision is only about the PPI sold to Mrs W alongside her card 
ending 09. 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld because Mrs W had a pre-existing 
medical condition when the cover was sold. She thought that Mrs W wouldnt have bought 
the cover if shed known she may not be able to claim for that pre-existing medical condition. 
Our adjudicator also said there wasnt enough information to show Barclays had made sure 
Mrs W knew the PPI was optional when she took it out. 
Barclays didnt agree with our adjudicators view and it said Mrs W had successfully claimed 
on her PPI policy in 2005. 
As Barclays didnt accept what our adjudicator said, the matter was passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
I asked our adjudicator to obtain some further information from the parties. Mrs W told us 
she had been diagnosed with her pre-existing medical condition in or around 1993 and she 
had symptoms for five to ten years before she was diagnosed. 
Barclays was asked to clarify when the PPI cover started as the information it provided 
seemed to suggest two possible start dates  18 February 1999 and 1 July 2000. No 
substantive response has been received from Barclays. I can see our adjudicator gave a 
further deadline for a response of 29 June 2023. However, there has been no further reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have upheld Mrs Ws complaint for the same reasons as set out by our adjudicator. 
It is unfortunate that we didnt get a substantive response from Barclays as to when the PPI 
policy started. But in the light of what Mrs W told us about when she was diagnosed with her 
medical condition, I am satisfied that I have sufficient information to fairly determine this 
complaint. 
Irrespective of whether the cover was sold in February 1999 or July 2000, we now know that 
Mrs W had a pre-existing medical condition when the policy was sold to her. I accept that 
Mrs W was diagnosed with her medical condition in around 1993 and that she had been 
symptomatic for some years before that. 
Barclays says it doesnt have records showing the way it sold PPI to Mrs W. I know Mrs W 
told us that she thought the cover had been sold online. But when she said this, she 
appeared to be referring to a different account. In addition to that, Barclays told us it didnt 
have any point of sale documents and unusually, it wasnt able to tell us which policy was 
sold to Mrs W. 
Despite that, I have seen some policy certificates from the period we know PPI was sold to 
Mrs W. On that basis, it looks as though Mrs W wouldnt have been able to claim on the PPI 
policy if she had an illness which had started before the start date of the PPI policy. 
When Barclays sold cover to Mrs W, it had to give her enough information about the PPI so 
she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information should 
have been clear, fair and not misleading. 
With all of this in mind, Ive looked at what we know about how Barclays sold PPI cover at 
the time  whether it was in branch, on the telephone, by post or online. 
From what we know about postal and online sales between February 1999 and July 2000, I 
dont think the information about pre-existing medical conditions would have been set out 
prominently. Similarly, if the cover was sold on the telephone, we know that in July 2000, the 
telephone adviser wouldnt have been prompted to tell Mrs W about the exclusions around 
medical conditions. On that basis, I dont think theyd have been prompted to tell Mrs W 
about the exclusion around medical conditions if it was sold by telephone in 1999. 
Ive considered the possibility that PPI was sold to Mrs W in a Barclays branch. If the cover 
was sold face to face, I cant know what was said. But the exclusions around medical 
conditions werent set out prominently in any of the written information Ive been made aware 
of. On that basis, I think its unlikely that Mrs W would have been told it might be more 
difficult for her to claim on the PPI policy because of her diagnosis if the cover had been sold 
in branch.
Putting all that together, I think it is unlikely that Barclays would have drawn Mrs Ws 
attention to the exclusions around medical conditions regardless as to how the cover was 
sold. 
Ive next considered whether Mrs W would have acted differently if shed known about the 
restrictions on pre-existing medical conditions. I think she would have most likely thought 
that her ongoing medical condition was a likely reason shed need to claim. I dont think 
shed have bought the cover if that restriction had been brought to her attention. 
In its response to our adjudicator, Barclays said that Mrs W had been able to make a 
successful claim on the policy. I accept Mrs W may well have successfully claimed. I dont 
think that changes what I said above. I cant say why the claim was successful. But my view 
remains that if Mrs W had known it may have been more difficult for her to make a 
successful claim because of her pre-existing medical condition, I dont think shed have 
bought this policy. 
For those reasons, I require Barclays to take action to put things right for Mrs W. 
Putting things right
Barclays needs to put Mrs W in the financial position she would be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI. I understand the PPI policy was cancelled in 2005, but it is not clear if or when the 
credit card account was closed. With that in mind: 
a) if the credit card account is still open, Barclays must find out how much Mrs W would 
owe on her card if the policy hadnt been added to it. If the credit card account has 
been closed, Barclays must find out how much Mrs W would have owed when she 
closed her account if they PPI hadnt been added to it. 
To do this, Barclays must remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest 
charged on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by 
the mis-sale of PPI, as well as any interest added to those charges. 
If the account is still open, Barclays must then refund the difference between what 
Mrs W owes and what she would have owed if PPI had not been added. 
Alternatively, if the account has been closed, Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs W owed when the account was closed and what she 
would have owed if the policy hadnt been added to it;
b) Mrs W may have made a successful claim under the PPI policy. So, Barclays can 
deduct the value of that claim from the amount it owes. It can also deduct any other 
PPI amounts already refunded in respect of this account, in particular in respect of 
commission and profit share; 
c) if the account has been closed, Barclays should add simple interest* on the 
difference between what Mrs W would have owed when from the account was closed 
until she gets the refund. The interest rate is 15% a year from April 1993 and 8% a 
year thereafter;
d) if, when Barclays works out what Mrs W would have owed each month without PPI, 
Mrs W paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays must also pay simple 
interest* on the extra she paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs W would have owed something on her credit card again. The interest rate 
must be 15% a year up to April 1993 and 8% a year thereafter; and 
e) Barclays must tell Mrs W what it has done to work out (a) to (d) above. 
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Barclays to take tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, to put things right as I have set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman