DRN-2230213
The complaint
Miss S complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) was 
irresponsible to lend her money she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
This complaint is about three loans Satsuma provided to Miss S. 
Heres a table with more information about the loans: 
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest* repayment
1 12/05/2015 June 2017 52 weekly 
repayments£300.00 £54.80
2 20/08/2017 outstanding 12 monthly 
repayments£500.00 £83.00
3 30/01/2018 outstanding 12 monthly 
repayments£650.00 £190.90
*including combined repayments due on overlapping loans
Miss S complained that Satsuma failed to check her finances sufficiently to make sure she 
would be in a position to pay back the loans.
Satsuma mainly says that before the loans were provided it carried out all proper checks and 
based on the information it gathered the lending was affordable for Miss S. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and issued a view, not upholding the 
complaint. Another adjudicator looked at the complaint again and reached a different opinion 
which was sent to all the parties. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He felt she hadnt seen enough to say it was 
unfair for Satsuma to have provided loan 1 to Miss S but explained why he thought that 
loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been lent. 
And our adjudicator set out the steps he said Satsuma should take to put things right. 
We havent heard anything back from Satsuma and the complaint is still not settled  so it 
comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
Satsuma told us about the checks it did before lending. It asked Miss S to provide details of 
her income and to tell Satsuma what she normally spent each month. Satsuma also carried 
out some checks on Miss Ss credit file. Ive seen a summary of the results of the checks Satsuma did and they dont show anything 
that I think should reasonably have made Satsuma think loan 1 wasnt affordable for Miss S. 
I appreciate that Miss Ss circumstances might not have been reflected in the information 
Satsuma had. But, looked at overall, given the loan repayment amounts, what was apparent 
about Miss Ss circumstances at the time and her borrowing history with the lender at that 
stage, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Satsuma to ask her for the amount of 
information that wouldve been needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first loan.
As it seems that Miss S hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation in relation 
to this loan, I dont think I need to say any more about it.
So I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about loan 1  even though it turned out that she didnt 
make all the full contractual repayments shed originally signed up to on time.
When she asked for loan 2, Id expect Satsuma to have taken into account Miss Ss 
repayment record on loan 1 alongside the other information it could see. 
Satsuma gave Miss S loan 2 around two months after she finally repaid her first loan. This 
loan was for significantly more money (loan 2 was around two thirds bigger than loan 1). 
And Satsuma was aware that it had taken around a year longer than originally agreed for 
Miss S to be able to afford to repay loan 1. I dont think there was anything in the information 
that Satsuma had gathered about Miss S that couldve led it to think that she was now in a 
position to make monthly repayments of £83 on loan 2 when she had evidently found it hard 
to pay a much smaller monthly amount to clear loan 1 just a couple of months earlier. 
Taking into account all this information, I think a reasonable lender ought to have realised 
that Miss Ss payment record on loan 1 most likely indicated that she had money problems 
and shed found it difficult to afford the repayments. Miss S has provided some bank 
statements which cover this period and I can see from these that she was in fact having 
money problems and was borrowing from many short term and high cost lenders. 
I think that what Satsuma could see about Miss Ss financial situation should reasonably 
have led Satsuma to the conclusion that the information shed provided about her finances, 
which showed she had over £700 a month of disposable income, probably wasnt a true 
reflection of her underlying financial situation. To my mind, its not likely that someone with 
that level of disposable income would have had the repayment problems Miss S did or that 
they would be likely to need to borrow again so soon after repaying previous borrowing.  
So I dont think it was reasonable for Satsuma to conclude (even with the adjustments it 
made to the figures shed given about her spending) that it was likely Miss S would be able 
to repay loan 2, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable manner. 
Satsuma shouldve realised that this loan, and further lending, was likely to be unaffordable 
for Miss S. So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 2 and 3.
Putting things right
If Satsuma sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise Satsuma should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below.A. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balances on loans 2 and 3, and treat 
any repayments made by Miss S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. 
B. If this results in Miss S having made overpayments then these should be paid back 
to Miss S with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled; or
C. If (as seems more likely) there is still a relatively small capital balance left to pay, 
I invite Satsuma to consider writing this off given Miss Ss financial situation. But if it 
is unwilling to do so and should Miss S fail to repay this through her IVA, then 
I remind Satsuma it should treat Miss S fairly and sympathetically and try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with her giving her more time to pay if she needs this. 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Miss Ss credit file for loans 2 and 3 once they are 
repaid  and ask the debt purchaser to do the same if Satsuma sold this loan on. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ss complaint about loans 2 and 3 and Provident Personal Credit Limited 
(trading as Satsuma) should put things right for Miss S as set out above.
I understand Miss S has been in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Her IVA 
supervisor has expressed an interest in any compensation Miss S might receive. Miss S and 
Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) should bear in mind Miss Ss 
obligations under that IVA in respect of any compensation she gets and make sure it is paid 
to the right person(s). A copy of this decision will be sent to her IVA supervisor.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman