DRN-3666783
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited 
(Acumen) to transfer the benefits he held in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. The BSPS was a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. 
Mr J says the advice was unsuitable for him.
Both Mr J and Acumen have used third parties to represent them at times during this 
complaint. But, for ease of reading this decision, Ill largely refer to representations as just 
being made by Mr J and Acumen.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr J with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. This said his benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£78,599.96. And in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose 
letter which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move 
to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Mr J approached Acumen in October 2017 to discuss his BSPS pension.
Acumen completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js circumstances and 
objectives. It noted he was 35, employed full time, in good health and married with two 
children. He and Mrs J had an outstanding mortgage and car loan but there was no 
indication these were unaffordable or that they wouldnt be cleared in full by the time Mr J 
came to retire.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr J was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution pension scheme. He and his employer were making combined 
contributions to this equivalent to 16% of his salary. That pension arrangement had only 
recently begun though and the BSPS benefits made up the significant majority of his 
retirement provisions at that time.
Acumen says Mr J was interested in potentially retiring at age 58. But as that was 
approximately 23 years away his income needs in retirement, as well as whether he might 
look to take a tax-free cash sum, were unknown. Acumen says Mr J wanted to transfer his 
pension because he was concerned about the situation with the BSPS, the pension 
potentially entering the PPF and the viability of his employer. It says he therefore wanted 
control over the pension, the ability to take benefits flexibly to allow him to retire at age 58 
and preferred the lump sum death benefits offered by a personal pension.
Acumen also carried out an assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
highest medium or a 7 on a scale of 1 to 10.
Acumen has said that its adviser met with Mr J around 30 October 2017. During that meeting 
it says Mr J indicated he wished to proceed with a transfer and Acumen verbally advised him 
to do so and completed application forms to facilitate the transfer.
On 15 November 2017, Acumen sent Mr J a written summary of its advice. Acumen 
recommended Mr J transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension with a specific 
provider. It said transferring to a personal pension met his objectives. Acumen noted that the 
critical yield, the annual rate of return required of a new pension that would allow Mr J to 
purchase equivalent benefits to those he was guaranteed under the DB scheme, was 
unlikely to be achievable. So, by transferring he may receive a lesser amount in retirement 
and those benefits would now be entirely reliant on investment returns. But Acumen said it 
assumed that Mr Js desire to live on a lower level of income and the ability to have flexible 
access to your retirement funds, allowing you to control when and how you receive benefits, 
together with the substantially better lump sum death benefits was a higher priority and 
objective for him than the benefits being given up. And so, it felt transferring was suitable. 
Subsequent to the transfer, Acumen would also provide ongoing monitoring and servicing of 
the pension, at a cost.
Mr J complained to Acumen in 2020 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He didnt 
think it was a suitable recommendation for him to give up guaranteed retirement benefits so 
far from his intended retirement, particularly given his needs in retirement were unknown. 
So, he didnt think the recommendation was in his best interests.  
Acumen didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. It said Mr J had sourced a CETV before contacting it 
and had been clear he was looking to transfer his pension. Acumen said it felt it had taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that the advice it provided was suitable and that Mr J had made 
an informed decision to transfer. It said its advice had explained that, if Mr J was trying to 
match the existing benefits, a transfer might not have been appropriate. But because of the 
objectives hed outlined, Acumen had assumed these were more important to him and it 
believed the transfer was suitable. It added that the BSPS2 was not confirmed at the time of 
the advice. So, it couldnt have reasonably recommended joining it. And Acumen said it 
wasnt required to guarantee that the transfer would be suitable for Mr J when viewed with 
hindsight. Rather it needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for 
Mr J at the time.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and said 
Acumen should compensate him for any loss the DB transfer had led to as well as £300 for 
the distress caused. In summary, he didnt think Mr J was likely to be any better off as a 
result of transferring but doing so introduced significant additional risk. He didnt think Mr J 
had genuine need for flexibility or control at the time of the advice. Nor did he think 
transferring in order to achieve alternate death benefits was appropriate. He thought Mr J 
shouldve been advised not to transfer and instead move to the BSPS2.
Acumen didnt agree. It said it felt the Investigator had assessed the case on the wrong 
basis. It reiterated it wasnt required to guarantee that the transfer was suitable for Mr J, 
which it said was subjective anyway particularly with hindsight, which it thought had been 
unfairly applied. Rather it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable. 
Acumen also said the Investigator had placed too much weight on the critical yields and 
discount rate and said that it wasnt under any obligation to refer to the latter. Acumen felt 
Mr J had made a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer, which hadnt been 
taken into account. And it also maintained that the BSPS2 was not a confirmed option at the 
time of the advice. The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. He reiterated he was required to 
look at whether the transfer was in Mr Js best interests. And he didnt think it was, given 
how long it was until Mr J was due to retire and his plans therefore being largely 
unconfirmed. As Acumen didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Acumen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Acumen says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for Mr J. I agree that under the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) Acumen was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr J was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). However, as Ive mentioned 
above, additional regulations apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. 
These additional regulations say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business should only have considered a transfer 
out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js best interests 
(COBS 19.1.6). So, Im satisfied, as Acumen was advising on transferring out of a DB 
scheme, it was required to clearly demonstrate that doing so was in Mr Js best interests. 
And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. 
Ill explain why.
Financial viability As part of advising on a potential transfer of DB scheme benefits, the regulator required 
Acumen to obtain a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report. Acumen has provided copies of 
two TVAS reports it instructed approximately six days apart. These were carried out by two 
different pension providers. One by the provider that Acumen ultimately recommended Mr J 
transfer his benefits to and one by another business that Acumen has indicated it was 
considering as a potential option for Mr J. These reports included the calculation of critical 
yields. And the figures calculated were marginally different in each report.
The critical yields Acumen referred to in the suitability report were the lower of those 
calculated. But were calculated by the provider it did not recommend. I think itd have been 
more appropriate to use the figures calculated by the provider that Acumen recommended 
the pension was ultimately transferred to. And there was nothing preventing this, as Acumen 
recommended a pension provider within the suitability report.
Acumen says the critical yield is of limited relevance and can be unreliable. But the regulator 
requires this to be calculated and considered when giving pension transfer advice. So, I do 
think an analysis of the critical yield is a relevant consideration here. Acumen also says Mr J 
had no intention of purchasing an annuity, making the critical yield even less relevant. But 
Mr J was only 35 at the time of the advice  over 20 years away from when hed likely be 
able to take benefits in any form from the pension. So, I dont think a decision about his 
needs in retirement could be taken with certainty at that time  as the fact find suggested. 
And it was entirely possible that when he did retire, he may have wanted greater guarantees 
for his income, such as those an annuity would provide.
In addition to the choice of critical yield figures Acumen used, I also think the TVAS reports 
in general were not as effective and useful a tool as they shouldve been for enabling Mr J to 
make an informed decision. Which I think was because of what Acumen requested be 
compared.
The calculations of the critical yields by both providers only accounted for Mr J taking a full 
pension from the DB scheme. There were no calculations for what return would be needed if 
he chose to draw tax-free cash when he retired. The suitability report said one of the 
reasons for the recommendation was that the personal pension allowed 25% to be taken as 
tax-free cash (TFC). The fact-find suggested that Mr J did not know if he was likely to take 
TFC, because his plans were not finalised as he was over 20 years from retiring. But given 
Acumen said this was a reason for its recommendation, Id have expected to see a 
comparison to that scenario within the TVAS.
The critical yields in both TVAS reports were also based on Mr J retiring at age 65. But 
Acumen said retiring early, around age 58, was one of Mr Js preferences and the transfer 
providing the flexibility to enable this was said to be one of the reasons for the 
recommendation. Ill come back to whether this was a genuine objective later. But, based on 
Acumen relying on this objective, Id have expected the TVAS to include comparisons for 
retiring at that age to illustrate the value of the DB scheme benefits. 
And the critical yield figures were based on matching Mr Js existing scheme, the BSPS. But 
Mr J didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS as it was. He either needed to opt into the 
BSPS2 or move with the BSPS to the PPF if he stayed with the DB scheme. While critical 
yield figures were calculated in respect of moving to the PPF, which was appropriate, there 
was no comparison to the BSPS2. And I think there shouldve been. By the time the advice 
was given here, sufficient details around the BSPS2 had been provided for a meaningful 
comparison to have been made. 
Acumen has argued that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead. So, says it was not actually an 
option for Mr J. But I still think a comparison of benefits ought to have been carried out as part of the TVAS given the details of the BSPS2 that had been released at that time - that 
the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits as the BSPS but the annual 
increases wouldve been lower. 
And I think Acumen is also overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. The 
restructuring of BSPS had been ongoing for a significant amount of time by the point 
Acumen instructed the TVAS reports and provided Mr J advice. Mr Js employer had agreed 
actions with the pensions regulator, and these had been carried out as scheduled  not 
least a lump sum payment into the BSPS which enabled the provision of improved transfer 
value quotations in September 2017. Mr J had also received his time to choose pack  with 
joining the new scheme one of the options. And details of the new scheme had been 
provided. So, based on what had happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, not 
least the trustees, were confident the BSPS2 would go ahead. Of course, its possible it may 
not have done. But given it appeared likely to proceed I still think the benefits available to 
Mr J through the BSPS2 shouldve been factored into the TVAS reports and subsequent 
advice so that he was able to make an informed decision.
The issues with the TVAS reports notwithstanding, I have considered them when looking at 
whether the transfer was in Mr Js interests.
For matching the full pension, the BSPS wouldve provided at age 65 the report by the 
pension provider Acumen recommended said the critical yield was 7.6%. With the other 
report saying this figure was 6.9%. And for matching the full pension the PPF would provide 
at age 65 the reports gave critical yields of 5.8% and 5.1% respectively. The critical yields 
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits were not calculated  although again I think they should 
have been. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the 
critical yields somewhat in comparison to the BSPS. But I still think they wouldve likely been 
higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits and are likely to have been closer to those of 
the BSPS benefits, particularly at age 65.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Acumen says 
that referring to the discount rate was not required by the regulator when giving advice. So, 
has suggested our Service is wrong to take this into account. But I think it is a reasonable 
additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably 
achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses 
to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a 
personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. The discount rate would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of likely returns. And businesses were free to refer to it. So, whilst I 
agree businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, they are able to do so. And I consider they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.7% per year for 29 years to retirement (which would be the case if Mr J retired at age 
65). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, the 
term to retirement and the highest medium attitude to risk that Acumen said reflected Mr Js 
position. There would be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through a DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But 
here, I think Mr J was always likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value at age 65 as a 
result of transferring and investing in line with his attitude to risk than those he wouldve 
been due under the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
As Ive said, the TVAS reports did not include a calculation of the critical yield required to 
match what Mr J could take at age 58. But in my experience, critical yields tend to be higher 
for shorter terms to retirement, as the pension fund will have less time to grow in value, even 
accounting for the actuarial reduction in starting pension benefits. And the discount rate for 
22 full years to retirement, as wouldve been the case if Mr J retired at age 58, was lower, at 
4.5%. So, on balance I think it is also likely that Mr J wouldve received benefits of a lower 
overall value at age 58 than those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF 
as a result of transferring.
So, from a financially viability perspective, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Js best interests. 
And Acumen acknowledged this to an extent in its suitability report when it suggested the 
critical yields were unlikely to be achievable. But it believes there were other considerations 
that meant the transfer was suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. And it says 
Mr J was aware of the risk of receiving lower overall benefits and accepted this. Making Mr J 
aware of risk doesnt mean it was suitable advice to recommend that he take it. And, as Ill 
go on to explain, I dont think the other considerations mentioned mean it was in his best 
interests to transfer.
Flexibility 
Acumen says Mr J wanted flexibility in terms of how he could take his benefits, so that he 
could retire at age 58. But I dont think he had a genuine need for flexibility at the time the 
advice was given.
The BSPS2 and the PPF both allowed Mr J to take benefits at age 58 if he chose to do so. 
The amount he could take at that point wouldve been subject to an actuarial reduction. But 
an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer  7 
years longer if taken at age 58 rather than 65. The starting monetary amount when 
compared with the full pension payable from age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  
wouldve been less. But this was a trade-off for taking the benefits for longer, rather than a 
penalty. And, as Ive already explained, I think Mr J was always likely to receive benefits of 
a lower overall value than those hed have been guaranteed under the BSPS2 or the PPF at 
age 58 as a result of transferring.
I also note the fact-find said Mr J was not sure of his needs or income requirements in 
retirement  which I dont think was unreasonable given how long it was until he could retire. 
So, I dont think it can be argued he needed to transfer in order to achieve a specific level of 
income, when these needs were unknown. And by the time Mr J came to make a decision 
about retiring, this pension, which gave him valuable guarantees, wouldnt have been the 
only retirement provisions available to him. He was a member of his employers new defined 
contribution scheme and he had over 20 years to contribute to this or any other retirement 
provisions.
Ultimately, Mr J was only 35 when Acumen advised him to transfer  over 20 years from 
being able to take any retirement benefits. I dont doubt he was interested in retiring early if 
possible  I think most consumers would be when asked. But I dont think his thoughts or 
plans were definitive at the time of the advice. So, I dont think he had a need for flexibility 
when he transferred his DB scheme. And I dont think it was a suitable recommendation, or 
in his best interests, for Mr J to give up his guaranteed benefits when he did. If Mr J later had 
reason to transfer out of his DB scheme I understand that this wouldve been allowed under BSPS2. And he couldve done so closer to retirement
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Acumen explored to what extent 
Mr J was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits. The suitability report said Acumen assumed this was of a higher priority to Mr J 
than a higher guaranteed income. But I dont think that was a reasonable assumption or that 
accepting a lower income was in his best interests just to achieve alternate death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr J 
was married and had young children and so the spouses and dependents pension provided 
by the DB scheme  which I understand wouldve been replicated by the BSPS2 or the PPF 
- wouldve been useful to his spouse and dependents if Mr J predeceased them. These 
benefits were guaranteed and escalated. Whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was dependent on both investment performance and whether, and how much, Mr J 
had drawn an income from the fund before passing away, which wouldve reduced the 
amount available as a lump sum. And given he was recorded as being in good health, there 
was nothing to suggest he was less likely to reach his average life expectancy, meaning the 
sum remaining was likely to have been significant depleted by the time it was passed on and 
may not have provided the legacy Mr J mayve thought.
The fact find also recorded that Mr J had death in service benefits from his current employer, 
which I think appear to have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a legacy. 
The new defined contribution pension he was contributing to also provided alternative forms 
of death benefit to his DB scheme. And, if Mr J didnt think these were enough and genuinely 
wanted to leave a further legacy, which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of 
his pension fund remained on his death, I think Acumen shouldve instead explored life 
insurance  which given his age and apparent good health appears likely to have been 
obtainable at a reasonable price. But I cant see that Acumen did so.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
Acumen says Mr J wanted control of his pension. But I think this objective was more linked 
to the uncertainty about the BSPS and his concerns about how his employer had handled 
the scheme. 
The information Ive seen suggests Mr J was an inexperienced investor. He did say hed 
invested previously without advice in one of the risk profile questionnaires he completed. But 
this was quantified by saying it was in a junior ISA. And he was clear hed never invested in 
the stock market or other investments, such as structured products. So, Im satisfied he was 
inexperienced. And I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to 
manage his pension funds on his own. So, I think this desire for control has been overstated 
somewhat and I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr J  rather it was a 
consequence of transferring away from the BSPS.I dont doubt Mr J, like many of his colleagues, was concerned about his pension. His 
employer had been consulting on its plans for the scheme for some time. And there appears 
to have been a general mistrust and lack of optimism. And I think its quite possible that Mr J 
was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had about his 
employer and his negative perception of the PPF. But this meant it was even more important 
that Acumen gave Mr J an objective opinion and recommend what was in his best interests. 
Acumen has suggested that Mr J had a particular mistrust for his employer. But his employer 
and the pension scheme trustees were not entirely one and the same. And I dont think 
Acumen did enough to really draw that distinction to address Mr Js concerns. 
By the time advice was provided details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. The Time to Choose paperwork was clear that opting into that scheme was 
an option  so, Im satisfied it was envisaged that this would go ahead. And I think this 
shouldve alleviated some of Mr Js concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Acumen shouldve 
reassured Mr J that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. He 
didnt have firm retirement plans or know what he would require in retirement. But, as Ive 
explained, he could still have taken benefits early under the PPF. And he was unlikely to 
exceed these benefits by transferring his pension. And although the increases in payment in 
the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment 
risk. So, I dont think that Mr Js concerns shouldve led to Acumen recommending he 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr J. But Acumen 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr J might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was 
to really understand what Mr J needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. His needs in retirement were, 
in my view, very much uncertain. By transferring, he was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). And this action was irreversible. Mr J 
was always likely to obtain lower retirement benefits as a result of transferring. And I dont 
think there were any other reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this  
particularly given how far away from making any real decisions about retirement Mr J was. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension, particularly when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. I 
appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but while I 
know Acumen has disagreed, I think it was clear to all parties at the time that it was likely to 
be going ahead. 
Mr J had over 20 years before he expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in 
retirement would likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the 
reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF. I say this because 
while it is true the PPF wouldve provided a more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement, because his plans were not confirmed, there was no guarantee the reduction he 
accepted would end up being offset by this more favourable reduction. And by opting into the 
BSPS2, Mr J wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age if he needed to. The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was 
also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think if Acumen had correctly advised him 
against transferring Mr J wouldve opted into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, against Acumen's advice. And Acumen says he wouldve, as he made an informed decision when transferring.
Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr J wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Acumens advice. 
While Mr J had obtained a CETV from the trustees of the BSPS before speaking to Acumen, 
hed been told by that point about significant potential changes to the BSPS and that hed 
have to make a choice at some point. Obtaining a CETV allowed him to make an informed 
choice. But I dont think this means his mind was already made up.
I accept that Acumen disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr J and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr J to 
transfer his benefits, and I think Mr J relied on that advice.
Like many of his colleagues, Mr J had been given a lot of information about the BSPS in the 
months before taking advice. I dont doubt hed taken the time to take all of that information 
on board. And he may even have gone into the discussions thinking transferring was 
potentially a good idea. But Mr J was an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted 
for the majority of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Acumen had provided him with 
clear advice against transferring, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice. And Im not persuaded that Mr Js concerns about the 
consultation or the PPF, or the potential appeal of alternative death benefits and flexibility 
were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, 
whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
And if Acumen had explained Mr J had no real reason to take on additional risk or give up 
the guarantees he was entitled to and that he was unlikely to exceed the benefits available 
to him through the BSPS2 or PPF if he transferred out, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think hed have gone against the advice.
In light of the above, I think Acumen should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Our Investigator recommended that Acumen also pay Mr J £300 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr J has been caused distress and concern by 
finding out the advice may not have been suitable  particularly given the circumstances and 
uncertainty under which he first asked for this advice. And Im conscious this upset wouldnt 
have happened but for the unsuitable advice. So, in the circumstances, I think the award the 
Investigator recommended in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Acumens unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice. So, Acumen should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for 
comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice.
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr J whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. Mr J has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr J. 
Acumen must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr J has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Js acceptance of the decision.
Acumen may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Js 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Js SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Js pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr J within 90 days of the date Acumen receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Acumen to pay Mr J.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Acumen to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and / or guidance in any event.
In addition, Acumen should pay Mr J £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr J any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Acumen 
Independent Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr J any interest as set out above on the sum 
of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Acumen Independent Financial Planning Limited pays Mr J the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr J.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Acumen Independent 
Financial Planning Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman