DRN-3094778
The complaint
Miss W complains about the standard of remedial work undertaken by Fairmead Insurance 
Limited when dealing with a subsidence claim on her buildings insurance.
What happened
Any reference I make to Fairmeads actions include those of its agents unless specified 
otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties and has been 
comprehensively documented by our investigator, so Ill only provide a summary here.
Miss W originally made a claim to Fairmead for subsidence in 2015 but this was 
rejected so she arranged for remedial work to be undertaken herself.
In 2017 she made a further claim having noticed more cracking and this was the 
subject of a complaint considered by this Service, on which a final decision was 
issued in June 2019. This decision directed Fairmead to undertake further remedial 
work and make a number of payments to Miss W including £1,000 for the trouble and 
upset shed experienced.
Work to stabilise the property was completed in July 2019 and some further work on 
drainage and snagging items were undertaken.
In early 2020, further cracking was identified but the cause was thought to be thermal 
movement so repairs went ahead.
By the end of 2020, the property had experienced more cracking. 
Subsequently, Fairmeads agents investigated and concluded the stabilisation works 
hadnt been properly completed.
Further work was undertaken to address the problems with the stabilisation of the 
property and these were completed by Spring 2021.
Miss W complained about the claim again to Fairmead in March 2021 and it issued 
another final response in June 2021, acknowledging it hadnt provided an acceptable 
level of service. 
It awarded compensation of £1,500 but Miss W didnt think this was enough and 
brought her complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint so Miss W asked an ombudsman to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned above, a final decision was issued on a previous complaint about this claim in 
June 2019. So, while Miss W has made reference to the impact of the claim since it was first 
made several years before, I wont be re-considering things that happened in the period 
covered in that decision. 
Fairmead issued a final response on the new aspects of the claim under review in this 
decision in June 2021. So, my decision focuses on the events between those two key dates.
Subsidence, by is nature, is stressful and inconvenient for a homeowner to deal with and 
claims relating to it, particularly complex ones, often take considerable time to resolve. I cant 
hold an insurer responsible for that but I can consider if it did what it should have done 
during the claim. While assessing this complaint I have kept in mind an insurers 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and to carry out lasting and effective 
repairs while also being mindful of what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
There doesnt seem to be a dispute about the facts of this case, just what is fair 
compensation for the problems Miss E has experienced. Fairmead has accepted it didnt 
complete the required stabilisation works correctly the first-time round. If it had, they would 
have been finished in Summer 2019 and the repair works could have been completed 
without interruption. 
But as it was, further cracks appeared through 2020 and I understand why this would have 
been stressful for Miss W particularly as they were initially blamed on thermal movement. It 
wasnt until 2021 Fairmead confirmed the works were faulty and needed to be re-done and it 
took until early Summer 2021 for them to be completed. While this was going on, repairs had 
been started and stopped a number of times. 
Miss W has detailed the impact the delays caused by Fairmeads actions over this period 
had on her, and its clear these were significant. Its included, but not been limited to, a 
detrimental affect her family life, the way shes been able to use her house and an extended 
period where the house has been in an untidy and unsightly state while repair work was 
being completed.
Overall, Im not satisfied Fairmead met its obligation to complete lasting and effective repairs 
and to deal with the claim promptly and fairly. In reaching my decision on the amount of 
compensation I think is fair, Ill be keeping this in mind together with everything Miss W has 
said about the impact its had on her.
The new conservatory
Miss W has repeated her claim that the cost of her new conservatory has gone up as a 
result of the delays in the work being dealt with correctly and Fairmead is responsible for 
this. The previous final decision dealt with this issue and explained why the ombudsman 
didnt think Fairmead needed to do anything further. While our investigator invited Miss W to 
submit any new evidence to support her case, Ive not been given anything additional to 
consider. So in light of the evidence presented, Im not directing Fairmead to do anything 
further on this point.
Other issues
At the time of the final response being issued, Fairmead had agreed it would investigate 
Miss Ws concerns about issues with the drains. It said once any issues had been identified, 
it would agree how the claim would be concluded including a scope of works and schedules 
for the remaining repair work. As these issues were ongoing at the time, theyre not covered 
in this decision but may be the subject of a further complaint from Miss W to Fairmead.
Summary
I know Miss W acknowledges that putting a monetary amount on the impact of Fairmeads 
actions is very difficult. Ive thought about this complaint very carefully and kept in mind everything Ive said before and this Services general approach to awards. Having done so, 
Ive concluded the £1,500 awarded by Fairmead is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, for the specific issues and time period under review in this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And Im satisfied the offer of £1,500 
made by Fairmead Insurance Limited is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman