DRN-1959041
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is that Henderson Investment Funds Limited (trading as Janus Henderson 
Investors (JHI)) overcharged him management fees. He seeks a refund in this respect.
What happened
Mr O has holdings in two funds managed by JHI  the Japan Opportunities fund, which JHI 
managed since 1987; and the European Growth fund, which JHI managed since 1996. His 
holdings had been based on A class status, however in April 2019 JHI informed him that he 
could transfer his holdings to the newly created E class status because he did not have an 
adviser associated with them. 
The E class caters for holdings without associated advisers. It has the benefit of a 
management fee that is 0.5% lower than that for A class holdings because of the absence of 
an associated adviser in the former and the presence of an associated adviser in the latter. 
The additional cost for A class holdings reflects adviser fees.
Mr O considered this an indication that he had previously been overcharged  from the 
outset of his holdings and up to 2019  with regards to the management fees for his 
holdings, given that he did not have an adviser associated to them. He says JHI wrongly 
applied to him a fee rate for holdings with associated advisers  despite his having none  
and that it compounded this by failing to transfer his holdings to a cheaper fee rate (minus 
advisers fees) at the outset or much earlier than 2019. On this basis, Mr O says JHI was/is 
in breach of the following regulatory principles: 
Principle 2  a firms duty to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  a firms duty to manage and control its affairs reasonably and 
effectively.
Principle 6  a firms duty to pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them 
fairly.
Principle 7  a firms duty to communicate with its clients in a way which is clear, fair 
and not misleading.
JHI denies any wrongdoing. It says the fee rate that applied to Mr Os holdings prior to 2019 
was generic and that it applied irrespective of whether (or not) a holding had an associated 
adviser; however, subsequent to the regulators review and rules on making fees 
transparent, the new E class was created to distinguish the fee rate for holdings without 
advisers from those with advisers and to reflect the absence of an advisers fee through the 
discount. JHI says no adviser fees were erroneously applied to Mr Os holdings and that the 
standard (generic) fee that was applied up to 2019 was the correct (and agreed) fee to 
apply, so there has been no overcharging and there is no basis for the refund he claims.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, agreed with JHIs position and concluded 
that the complaint should not be upheld. He explained that this services remit does not 
extend to the regulation of firms. He focused on the issue arising from the complaint and 
took the view  based on available evidence and with reference to the regulators initial 
Retail Distribution Review (RDR) and its subsequent guidelines in 2018 on the matter of 
transparency of fees  that the new E class and notice about it in 2019 did not mean Mr O 
had been previously overcharged.
Mr O disagreed with this outcome. In the main:
He disagreed with the investigators view that this service does not interfere with 
firms practices and charges  he said it is this services role to give effect to the 
regulators rules about firms practices and charges.
He said this service is also obliged to give effect to the regulatory principles set by 
the regulator, that there is case law authority in this respect (some of which he cited) 
and that the investigator failed to properly address the principles he says JHI had/has 
breached.
He said, aside from but in addition to breaching the listed principles, JHI also 
breached a moral duty to apply the effect of the transparency of charges initiative 
retroactively in order to review and rectify existing and past erroneous fee rates.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators conclusion. Overall and on balance, I do not 
consider that the emergence of the E class and the invitation, in 2019, extended to Mr O to 
transfer his holdings to this class meant he had previously been overcharged; and there 
does not appear to be evidence that shows the wrong management fee rate was applied to 
his holdings.
I understand Mr Os points about this services role in giving effect to the regulatory 
principles and to the regulators rules in general. This is not in dispute, however the 
distinction the investigator sought to establish is that there is a difference between 
undertaking a regulatory investigation into the actions of JHI and undertaking an 
investigation into the complaint/issue that Mr O has raised. The former is beyond this 
services remit. The latter is within our remit. I do not suggest that the regulators principles 
and rules are irrelevant to Mr Os complaint  they are not irrelevant  but, primarily, the 
complaint must stand or fall on its own merits (or lack of).
If, based on the facts of, and available evidence in, the complaint it is found that JHI 
overcharged Mr O, unduly concealed this from him, unduly delayed in rectifying this and/or 
was inefficient to the extent of not identifying and rectifying this at the outset or much earlier 
than 2019, a basis could then exist to consider, treat and/or apply the principles cited by Mr 
O. However, if as the investigator and I have determined, JHI committed no such 
wrongdoings no such basis exists.
I have not seen evidence of a two-tier management fee structure with regards to JHIs 
management of holdings prior to 2019. Available evidence is that a single fee rate of 1.5% 
was applied to holdings with and without associated advisers. There does not appear to be a 
dispute that this was the fee rate agreed between the parties, so in the absence of an 
alternative fee rate there does not appear to be an issue about relevant fee rate information 
being concealed from Mr O. The same absence also means there is no basis to say JHI should previously have switched his holdings to an alternative fee rate  no such alternative 
existed.
As Mr O might be aware, the RDR (and subsequent guidance from the regulator on its 
purpose) had the effect of changing the way in which firms communicated and applied their 
fees and charges to retail clients. Whereas previously JHI applied the generic fee rate, 
regardless of whether (or not) a holding had an associated adviser, the new rules  and 
especially the regulators findings in 2018 about firms communicating costs and charges in 
the field of fund management  led to the separation of fee rates it conducted and 
communicated to Mr O in 2019. 
It was not required to apply this retroactively. I understand Mr Os argument about a moral 
duty to do so and an additional argument he made about a firm being capable of behaving 
above the minimum regulatory standard. However, I consider that these arguments go 
beyond the complaint and sit outside of it. Whether (or not) JHI had such a moral duty or 
could behave above the minimum regulatory standard, the point is that it was/is not required 
to apply this fee rates separation retroactively.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I am not persuaded by Mr Os claim for 
a refund of fees.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman