DRN-3483979
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) disclosed personal 
information to a third party.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R say that The Co-op disclosed their address to Mr Rs brother without their 
authority. They say Mr R updated his address in respect of his and his joint account with Mrs 
R, but The Co-op also updated the address for the joint account held between Mr R and his 
brother. Mr and Mrs R say Mr Rs brother used the address to circumvent legal action and 
that The Co-op received confidential information about the position of the relationship. They 
say their personal data has been shared and that they incurred legal costs as a result. They 
also say they received an account card for Mr Rs brother which is a further personal data 
breach and would like The Co-op to pay the legal costs of £12,000 as well as apologise.
The Co-op says Mr R holds a number of accounts including a joint account opened in 2018 
with his brother. It says its records show Mr R used online banking in May 2021 and selected 
the joint account with his brother before sending it a secure message updating his address. 
It says the new address would have been visible when Mr Rs brother used online banking 
and that it was unaware of any issues between them. The Co-op doesnt accept making a 
mistake and says only one address is recorded for a joint account. It says both parties 
agreed to account terms and conditions and say it was Mr and Mrs R that told it about the 
relationship background.
Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator looked at The Co-ops records and thought Mr R must have selected the joint 
account with his brother before being able to send the address change request. The 
investigator didnt think The Co-op had been told about any dispute between the parties and 
Mr Rs brother was entitled to access the account as well as see the new address.
Mr and Mrs R dont accept that view and dispute that Mr R accessed the joint account to 
change the address and in any event question why The Co-op didnt question that as that 
account was not regularly used. They say there are numerous questions unanswered and 
say The Co-ops systems have allowed a personal data breach. They also question why The 
Co-op changed all of the accounts address details when that wasnt requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly 
they feel about what has happened. 
I appreciate there is a dispute here between Mr R and his brother. I dont think it clear what 
that is about or how the address issue resulted in £12,000 legal costs but Im satisfied that 
The Co-op was unaware of that dispute and would only be aware that Mr R and his brother 
held a joint account since 2018 without apparent issue. I would have expected Mr and Mrs R 
to have told The Co-op that there was a dispute and it could have taken steps to mark the 
account with details of that dispute. 
I have looked carefully at The Co-ops records and its screenshots about changing an 
address. This was a joint account and either Mr R or his brother could if they wished change 
the address at any stage. I can see that before an address can be changed that an account 
has to be selected. After that selection, there is a process for changing the address. I 
appreciate Mr R may not have intended to have selected the joint account with his brother, 
but it is difficult to see what else could have happened as the Co-ops records confirm that is 
what took place. Im satisfied that by selecting that account and updating it that Mr Rs 
brother was then able to see the address in accordance with account terms and conditions 
as this was a joint account. It follows that I dont think The Co-op has made a mistake or 
acted unfairly and I cant fairly conclude that it shared personal information without authority 
when Mr R disclosed the address by updating the account details.
I appreciate Mr R says that he believes that he sent the address change request via a 
different account and the Co-op should have questioned why if that was the case, he used 
the joint account as it was not used regularly. But Im satisfied the records of the Co-op show 
that it was the joint account that was selected, and I cant fairly hold The Co-op responsible if 
a genuine mistake was made by Mr R in selecting the wrong account.
I also appreciate Mr R questions why all accounts had the address changed. I cant see why 
that is relevant to the complaint here and would have thought Mr and Mrs R would have 
wanted their and Mr Rs account details all changed to their new address. I dont think it 
clear if The Co-op send Mr R his brothers debit card for the joint account or his brothers 
debit card for his own account. If The Co-op sent a debit card for the joint account, then I 
dont think a mistake would have been made as Mr Rs address was registered on that 
account. And if it was incorrectly sent and was for a different account, then it would be a 
breach of Mr Rs brothers personal data rules not Mr Rs.
Overall, Im satisfied that The Co-op followed Mr Rs instructions and changed his address 
via the joint account held with his brother. Im satisfied that The Co-op hasnt acted unfairly 
or made a mistake and so I cant fairly order it to pay compensation or take further action in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I accept Mr and Mrs R will have unanswered questions 
that they raise about the accuracy of The Co-ops systems and about other matters. But for 
the reasons I have explained I find that it more likely that Mr R accessed the joint account 
when updating his address.
I have listened to the complaint telephone call between Mrs R and The Co-op and am 
satisfied that Mrs R told it that there was a dispute between Mr R and his brother. I have not 
seen any evidence that The Co-op was told any other information about the dispute from 
anyone else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman