DRN-2865677
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
when he made a claim under his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S holds a Home Care policy with British Gas that includes repairs to plumbing and drains. 
In September 2020 Mr S contacted British Gas as he had a blocked drain at his property. 
The engineer who attended jet washed the drain to remove the blockage. But he said a tree 
root was causing the problem and it would need to be removed permanently to avoid future 
problems. Mr S asked British Gas to pay for this further work but it said it would only pay for 
removing the blockage. So, he paid a third party about £500 to cut the root and install a 
patch liner. 
Mr S complained to British Gas and asked it reimburse him for the further work hed paid for. 
He thought his Home Care policy covered him for this further work. British Gas didnt agree 
and said it had fulfilled its obligations under the terms and conditions of his policy. It said, if 
theres an underlying issue, its the policy holders responsibility to get the work done to 
prevent further problems. Mr S remained unhappy so he approached this service. 
Our investigator said she was satisfied British Gas had acted in the way shed expect it to. 
She thought British Gas had fulfilled its responsibilities under the terms and conditions of the 
Mr Ss policy and wouldnt expect it to cover the cost of the additional work hed paid for. 
As Mr S remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss Home Care policy sets out what it covers and includes 
the following:
Repairing and unblocking drains to restore flow
Theres no dispute that British Gas unblocked the drain and restored the flow. There also 
seems to be no dispute that a root from Mr Ss neighbours tree was the underlying cause of 
the blockage. What I need to decide is whether British Gas has acted reasonably in refusing 
to pay for the further work Mr S paid for, which was to cut the root of his neighbours tree and 
install a patch liner to the drain where the root was coming through. And, on balance, I think 
it has. Let me explain why.
British Gas was responsible for repairing and unblocking Mr Ss drain to restore flow. As I 
see it, the key aim was to restore the flow. British Gas did that. It unblocked the drain by 
jetting it to remove the block and thus restored the flow. Any further repair wasnt necessary 
to achieve that aim. British Gas therefore resolved the immediate issue. 
Mr S paid a third party to do further work to prevent future problems and that seems to be a 
sensible thing to have done. Without removing the underlying cause of the blockage, its 
likely to have occurred again at some point in the future. But, in light of the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ss Home Care policy, I dont think it would be fair to expect British Gas to 
have carried out that work, or to pay for it now that its been done.  
British Gas suggested Mr S might be able to make a claim under his buildings insurance and 
thats an option he might choose to explore, if he hasnt done so already.
So, in summary, I dont think British Gas has acted unfairly in declining Mr Ss claim, and I 
dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman