DRN-3660259
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about QIC Europe Ltds (QICs) handling of a claim she made under 
the storm section of her home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mrs F made a claim for storm damage to her 
property, including felt lifting from a flat roof and her chimney partially collapsing, causing 
damage to the tiled roof below.
QIC declined the claim for damage to the flat roof on the basis that it was over 20 years old  
which significantly exceeds its expected lifespan. It said the felt had de-bonded due to its 
age, and it was this which was the dominant cause of damage, rather than the winds.
QIC initially accepted the damage to the chimney and made an offer to settle this element of 
the claim. Mrs F didnt accept the offer as she was unhappy with the decision not to cover 
the flat roof element.
QIC referred the claim to its in-house surveyors for review. The surveyor agreed with the 
decision to decline the flat roof element of the claim, for the same reasons initially given. But 
they also said the mortar of the chimney showed significant signs of age-related 
degradation. Based on this, QIC withdrew the offer to settle the claim, and instead declined it 
on the basis that the proximate cause of damage, to both the chimney and flat roof was 
gradual deterioration  which isnt covered by the policy. QIC said it could have covered the 
damage caused by falling debris under the accidental damage section of its policy. But 
Mrs F didnt take out that cover as part of her policy.
Our investigator considered this complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
didnt feel that QIC had acted outside the terms of the policy or treated Mrs F unfairly 
withdrawing an offer of settlement when further evidence came to light. She said she felt 
there had been storm conditions, and that the reported damage was consistent with damage 
typically caused by a storm. But taking into account the weight of evidence available, she 
didnt think the storm was most likely the dominant cause of damage. Instead, she was 
persuaded that the dominant cause of damage was gradual deterioration, which was merely 
highlighted by the storm. 
Mrs F didnt accept our investigators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs F is unhappy that QIC initially offered to settle part of the claim, but later changed its 
position based on a desk top investigation.
As the claim was still open, QIC were entitled to continue investigating the circumstances of 
the loss and to withdraw the settlement offer if it established that the damage wasnt covered 
under the terms of the policy. So, while I appreciate Mrs Fs disappointment, I dont think that 
QIC amending its decision after having made an offer is inherently unfair.
Ive next considered the fairness of the decision QIC reached.
When our service considers complaints about claims for storm damage, we ask ourselves 
three questions. Unless the answer to all three questions is yes, its likely that the claim 
wouldnt succeed. The three questions we ask ourselves are:
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of reported damage?
Is the damage reported consistent with damage typically caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
Ive considered each in turn:
Were there storm conditions?
QIC initially said the winds reported on the date of loss didnt meet the policy definition of 
storm. But it also initially made an offer to settle the chimney claim. So, Im unclear on QICs 
position as to whether or not there was a storm.
In any event, our investigator obtained additional weather reports which demonstrated that 
the windspeeds on the date of loss peaked at around 59mph.
Mrs Fs policy defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
a.a gale force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised 
Beaufort Scale) reaching winds of at least 55mph
Based on the available weather reporting data Ive seen, Im satisfied there were storm 
conditions.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
The damage in this case is consistent with damage typically caused by storm force winds.
Was the storm the main cause of damage?
QIC says the storm wasnt the main cause of damage. Instead it says the flat roof was at the 
end of its lifespan and the chimney was showing signs of gradual deterioration.
Under the storm section of Mrs Fs policy, it explains QIC will not cover:
d. anything that happens graduallyQIC has had the damage to Mrs Fs property reviewed by two separate surveyors. Both are 
in agreement that the flat roof was well past its designed lifespan and so susceptible to wind 
lift. They said the winds have highlighted the gradual deterioration of the roof, and that 
damage would have been inevitable owing to the age of the roof.
Mrs F has said that if the felt was in such a poor condition they would have had damp 
issues, which they didnt. She also says a neighbour had a similar claim covered by their 
insurer so she doesnt understand whats so different about her claim.
I should point out here that Im only able to consider Mrs Fs complaint about her claim with 
QIC, not her neighbours claim with their insurer. But its important to note that insurers each 
have their own terms, conditions and restrictions to cover. So, the fact that Mrs Fs 
neighbour might have had a similar claim covered, on its own, doesnt persuade me that 
QICs decision is unfair or unreasonable.
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Fs point regarding the damp. But ultimately, I need to reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely than not, 
based on the available evidence and arguments. And having carefully considered the weight 
of the evidence, I find the opinions of two qualified surveyors, on balance, to be more 
persuasive than the arguments put forward by Mrs F. So, I dont think QIC acted unfairly by 
declining the damage to the flat roof, based on the conclusions of the surveyors.
Mrs F is unhappy that QIC changed its decision on the chimney claim based on photos of 
the damage, rather than an in-person inspection. She also says her roofer, and her 
neighbours surveyor, told her that her chimney was in good condition.
Again, in order to determine whether QICs decision regarding the chimney was fair, I need 
to decide which evidence and arguments I find most persuasive. QICs surveyor may only 
have reviewed photos of the chimney, but based on these he said:
Following a desktop review of the damage to the chimney. It is clear to see that from 
the close up image we have that the mortar flaunching (sic) at the top of the chimney 
and the (sic) between the brickwork in the chimney is in a poor condition due to 
deterioration. The deterioration is a result of the age of the material that has broken 
down naturally over time. The proximate cause of the damage is the breakdown of 
the material and the wind has highlighted this poor condition resulting in the 
damage.
I appreciate the surveyor only reviewed the images. But having seen the image myself I can 
confirm it is a high-resolution image which allows you to zoom in closely to the mortar. So, 
Im satisfied that the surveyor had sufficient sight of the chimney in order to reach his 
conclusions. And having seen the images myself, I dont think the conclusions he reached 
are unreasonable.
Ive thought about Mrs Fs comments, and what shes said about her neighbours roofer and 
surveyor. But in the absence of any reports or direct comments from those experts, I find the 
report and conclusions of QICs surveyor to be the most persuasive evidence available.
Based on the surveyors expert opinion Im satisfied, on balance, that the dominant cause of 
damage to the chimney was most likely gradual deterioration of the mortar. So, as gradual 
damage is excluded under the policy terms, Im satisfied that the decision reached by QIC 
was in line with the policy terms, and that it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs complaint against 
QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman