DRN-3104988
The complaint
Mrs M says UK Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mrs M took out a guarantor loan from UK Credit in March 2018. It was for £4,500 over 36
months. The monthly repayment was £237.58 and the total repayable was £8,552.88.
Mrs M says the loan was unaffordable for her. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She said the lenders 
checks were not proportionate, and better checks would have shown the loan was most 
likely not sustainably affordable for Mrs M. 
UK Credit disagreed saying, in summary, the results of better checks do not show the loan to 
be unaffordable. 
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when UK Credit lent to Mrs M. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged UK Credit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether Mrs M could afford to repay what she owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mrs M. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mrs M, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mrs Ms loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some information from Mrs M before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of her income and checked this using a third-party income verification tool. It asked 
what percentage of the households monthly living costs she paid (but I cant see it asked 
what the total was) and it checked her credit file to understand her credit history and existing 
debts. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation, and it 
checked which of her existing debts she was going to repay. As these totalled less than the 
loan it asked of more information and Mrs M confirmed she was going to clear her husbands 
overdraft and settle a tax underpayment. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded 
Mrs M had sufficient monthly disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
But I dont think that these checks were proportionate. Mrs M was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from UK Credit. She was entering into a long-term commitment
and would need to make monthly repayments for three years. So I would expect that UK
Credit would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about
Mrs Ms financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I cant see it took any steps 
to verify her expenses. And it knew from the credit check it completed and the completion 
phone call that she was at her limit on her credit cards. So, in the round, I think it would have 
been proportionate for UK Credit to independently check the actual state of Mrs Ms finances 
before agreeing the loan.
This was the finding our investigator made and she went on to say that her review of Mrs Ms 
bank statements (as a proxy for better checks) showed Mrs Ms average income in the three 
months prior to this application (£894.06) was significantly lower than she declared (£1,500).
UK Credit challenged that this income should be used for the affordability assessment, 
saying it knew from the call Mrs M had recently changed jobs and so had it completed better 
checks it would have asked for an employment contract to verify income. And as we could 
see from bank statements in the months after her application Mrs Ms income settled at 
£1,253.31 (salary plus benefits) so that would be the right figure to use for the affordability 
assessment. 
I would make two points in response to this. I accept it is reasonable to use the income 
figure from the new job Mrs M started in March 2018. But the lenders affordability assessment focuses solely on the pounds and pence affordability of the loan. And to meet its 
regulatory obligations it had to do more than this  it had to consider if the loan could be 
repaid sustainably, so without Mrs M having to borrow to repay or suffering any other 
harmful financial consequences. 
Mrs M was consolidating a number of her debts (two credit cards, her overdraft, a catalogue 
account and an insurance account) but she would still be making monthly repayments of 
£188 on a 48-month hire purchase agreement that had 30 months to run. 
So by giving this loan UK Credit was putting Mrs M in a position where she would have to 
spend around a third of her income to service her debt. This is a significant amount and I 
think the lender ought to have realised from this that there was a risk the loan would not be 
sustainably affordable for her. In addition, Mrs M had confirmed she was not looking to 
reduce her £1,000 overdraft facility after repaying it suggesting she was not confident her 
finances wouldnt be under pressure.
It follows I think UK Credit was wrong to give this loan to Mrs M. 
 
I havent found any evidence UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mrs M to have repaid the capital amount that she borrowed as she had 
the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been given to her. So she has lost out and UK Credit needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mrs M made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mrs Ms loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mrs Ms loan accounts results in there being an outstanding capital 
balance UK Credit must work with Mrs M to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ms complaint. UK Credit Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman