DRN-4353900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Chubb European Group SE (Chubb) has turned down a travel 
rearrangement claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T have travel insurance through their employers group scheme.
In July 2022, Mr and Mrs T were due to fly abroad on holiday. Unfortunately, following a six-
hour delay at the airport, their flight was eventually cancelled by the airline due to scheduling 
reasons. As an alternative flight wasnt available, Mr and Mrs T drove to their holiday 
destination instead. Mr and Mrs T made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the 
additional travel costs and the costs for various bookings they were unable to use due to the 
changes.
Chubb turned down Mr and Mrs Ts claim. It said that the circumstances of the claim werent 
covered by the disruption section of the policy. This was because the reason for the 
disruption wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with Chubbs decision, and they asked us to look into this 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
claim was covered by the policy, so she didnt think it had been unfair for Chubb to turn 
down the claim.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed, and Ive summarised their response. They felt that the policy was 
unclear and ambiguous. Theyve said that they were claiming under the Specific Definition 
for Section 1  Disruption part of the policy. Theyve also said that as disruption isnt in bold, 
and therefore isnt a defined term in the policy, the English language definition applies 
instead of the terms set out in the policy.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, I think it was fair for Chubb to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. They 
also must not turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether I think 
Chubb treated them fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs T found themselves in was outside of 
their control. However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled 
to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. 
Therefore, Chubbs obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs T are limited by the terms, 
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy.
I appreciate that Mr T feels that the policy terms are unclear and ambiguous. However, 
having reviewed the policy terms, I think that the policy is clear about what is and isnt 
covered under each section of the policy. In this case, the relevant section of the policy is 
Section 1  Disruption. The policy says that Chubb will cover the rearrangement of travel 
costs of a policyholders trip if the rearrangement is down to one of the following, listed, 
insured events:
a) the death, serious injury, sudden illness, complications in pregnancy (as diagnosed by a 
Doctor or specialist in obstetrics) or quarantine on the orders of a Doctor, of You, a 
member of Your Immediate Family or Your Travelling Companions or anyone on whom 
the Journey depends, provided that such cancellation, curtailment or rearrangement is 
confirmed as medically necessary by a Doctor;
b) a Public Conveyance being cancelled or curtailed because of adverse weather, industrial 
action, or mechanical breakdown or derangement;
c) You being required to attend Jury service or being subpoenaed;
d) the hijacking of the conveyance in which You are travelling;
e) Your unemployment, which qualifies for payment under any applicable statute;
f) serious damage making Your home uninhabitable;
g) Your presence being required by the police following a burglary or attempted burglary at 
Your home;
The policy also sets out that if the event isnt in the above list, then it isnt an insured event 
under the policy. As the cause of Mr and Mrs Ts disruption was due to a cancelled flight 
because of an airlines schedule, this isnt in the above list which means it isnt covered 
under the policy.
I agree with Mr and Mrs T that the word disruption isnt in bold in the policy. A word in bold in 
the policy is one which has a specific definition as set out within the policy terms. I also 
agree that words that arent in bold would usually be defined by the English dictionary 
definition. However, in this case, disruption is used in the policy as a section heading. I dont 
agree that it not being in bold means that the above list is irrelevant and anything that would 
be deemed to be a disruption under the dictionary definition would be covered by the policy. 
I think the policy is clear about what is covered.
Mr and Mrs T believe they have a claim under Specific Definition for Section 1  Disruption 
which says:
Cancellation, Curtailment and Rearrangement Costs
Costs for unused travel and/or accommodation (including ski hire, ski school and ski lift 
passes), which You have paid or are contracted to pay and which cannot be recovered from 
any other source. Curtailment and Rearrangement costs include reasonable additional travel 
and accommodation expenses provided that such travel is of a standard no greater than the 
class of transport on the outbound part of the Journey and the standard of accommodation is not superior to that of the Journey.
As can be seen, it sets out what costs can be claimed if the event causing the claim is one 
from the list above So, Im not persuaded that this is a separate section that Mr and Mrs T 
are eligible to claim under.
Ive looked carefully at the remaining sections of the contract. But there simply isnt any 
section which provides cover in the circumstances which Mr and Mrs T unfortunately found 
themselves in.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ts position, I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Chubb to pay this claim. I dont think that 
Chubb have acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Anthony Mullins
Ombudsman