DRN-3553071
The complaint
Mr W complained to Wesleyan Assurance Society (Wesleyan) about the sale of his 
freestanding additional contribution (FSAVC) plans. Wesleyan upheld the complaint but Mr 
W doesnt agree with the redress methodology used to calculate the loss hes suffered as a
result of the FSAVC plans being mis-sold.
Mr W is being represented in his complaint by a claims management company. And both Mr
Ws representative and Wesleyan have actuaries assisting them with this matter
What happened
In 1996, Mr W was advised by Wesleyan to take out a FSAVC plan [plan 1], making 
contributions of £100 per month. At the time, Mr W was a member of his employers
occupational pension scheme (OPS). Mr W met with Wesleyan again in 1997 and started a
further plan [plan 2], contributing £130 per month. Both plans had a retirement age of 55. 
Mr W ceased making contributions to both plans in September 1998.
In 2019, Mr Ws representative complained to Wesleyan about the sale of the FSAVC plans.
Wesleyan upheld the complaint as it wasnt satisfied that the adviser explained the in-house
options Mr W had for topping up his pension through his OPS. And although Mr W had
indicated in his complaint letter that he would have bought added years, Wesleyan said that
the paperwork from the time of the sale showed that Mr W wanted to retire at the age of 55. 
And so it said it would be completing a calculation on a charges only basis, i.e. a
comparison of charges between the FSAVC plan and the in-house additional voluntary
contribution (AVC) plan, as it was satisfied that Mr W would have gone into the in-house
AVC scheme and not the added years arrangement. Wesleyan instructed its actuaries to
carry out the calculation on a charges only basis.
In December 2019, Wesleyan wrote to Mr Ws representative. It said that having completed
its review and calculations it had determined that Mr W had not suffered a loss as a result of
the advice he received to take the FSAVCs instead of being a member of the in-house AVC
scheme between January 1996 and August 1998. Its letter said:
up to 1 October 2019, the value of the investment charges incurred within both Plans
were higher than those under the AVC option by £4,068.23.
After allowance for the effect of future investment charges up to 27 October 2023, the gross
value of redress required as at 1 October 2019 is £4,766.18.
[Mr Ws] Plans [plan 1 & 2] benefited from a valuable Guaranteed Annuity Option (GAO)
which provided for a much-enhanced annuity at retirement by comparison with a competitive
annuity expected to be available in the annuity market. The enhancement in values due to
the GAO has been included in our loss assessment.
Under the GAO at age 55 there is a guarantee of £6.071 per £100.00 (of the fund value)
payable monthly in advance guaranteed 5 years and with no increases.
[plan 1 & 2] had a combined fund value of £49,815.10, as at 1 October 2019.
To use the funds to purchase an equivalent annuity based on the FCA calculation
methodology for defined benefits, assuming retirement at age 55, would require an amount
now of £80,572.19, a notional fund enhancement of £30,757.09.
The adjustment for the GAO described above is restricted to 75% of the fund, the balance
being the maximum 25% of the fund which may be taken as tax free cash. It is assumed that
[Mr W] will remain in good health and will not have a health impairment that will qualify for an
annuity on enhanced terms.
Comparing the charges loss of £4,766.18 with the notional fund enhancement of £30,757.09
due the GAO there is a gain of £25,990.91.
As a result, no compensation is due as our calculations show that [Mr W] has incurred no
financial loss.
Mr Ws representative had concerns about Wesleyans methodology so it challenged this. In
summary it said that the guidance states that GAO's on FSAVCs should not be included in
charges only loss assessments. This is because the calculation tables on pages 62, 63 & 65
of the guidance only include the following wording for the FSAVC side of the loss calculation,
"The value of the charges incurred on the FSAVC fund up to the Calculation Date allowing
for accumulation at the benchmark index" i.e., only the charges in the FSAVC should be
modelled.
Wesleyan responded to Mr Ws representative. It said that it was of the view that the FSAVC
review guidance supports the position that the annuity guarantee may be taken into account
when assessing a potential charges loss. It went on to explain that the particular FSAVC
product held by Mr W has an option that provides a valuable guaranteed income in
retirement, the value of which its actuaries have determined more than outweighs the higher
charges deemed to be associated with the FSAVC product - as compared with the in-house
money purchase AVC alternative offered by the OPS.
As no agreement could be reached on this matter, the complaint was referred to our service
for consideration.
My provisional findings
I reviewed the complaint and issued a provisional decision in June 2022. My provisional 
findings are set out below. 
Wesleyan has upheld this complaint and it considers Mr W would have joined his in-house
AVC arrangement had the FSAVC plan not been mis-sold. Mr W initially complained that he
would have bought added years but he no longer seems to be arguing this. And he hasnt
disputed the basis on which Wesleyan has upheld his complaint. So, all thats left for me to
decide is how Wesleyan needs to put matters right. However, for completeness, I should add
that I agree, given what was noted in the sales paperwork about Mr Ws desire to retire at
55, the in-house AVC does seem to have been a more appropriate option for him than
added years.
Following concerns about mis-selling, the regulator at that time, told businesses to carry
out a review of some FSAVC plans sold between 29 April 1988 and 15 August 1999. The
main aim was to review the FSAVC plans of consumers who might have lost matching
contributions or subsidies that the employer wouldve paid, had an in-house AVC plan
been started instead. The sale of Mr Ws plan didnt fall within the review because the OPSdidnt match or subsidise payments to its in-house AVC arrangement.
However, when we uphold a consumer's complaint and its determined that they shouldve
been advised to take in-house AVCs instead of FSAVCs, we do generally tell the business to
pay compensation in accordance with the FSAVC review guidance, even if the FSAVC plan
didnt fall within the scope of the review.
While acknowledging that the model guidance is useful, its simply that - guidance. It doesnt
set out rules that all businesses must follow. And, in some circumstances, its not
appropriate to apply the guidance if it will result in unfair redress for a consumer that has
been mis-sold an FSAVC plan.
Use of the GAO in redress calculations
Having reviewed matters, I do think the guidance allows firms to consider whether no loss
has been suffered by a consumer. And I also think that one of the situations where it can do
this is when the FSAVC has a GAO. Ive set out below the relevant section of the guidance.
6.25 Firms may wish to investigate whether there has in fact been no financial loss 
suffered despite the possible loss of employer matching contributions, subsidised 
benefits or lower level of charges in the in-house AVC arrangement.
6.25.1 If the investor has lost out on employer matching contributions or other 
subsidised benefits, it is almost certain that a loss will have occurred. However, an 
example of circumstances when a loss will not have occurred is where the 
investment performance of the FSAVC has exceeded that of the in-house AVC 
arrangement by more than the cumulative value of the lost employer contributions 
and any difference in charges. A further example might be where the FSAVC 
offers some kind of valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement.
6.25.2 If a firm finds an investor for whom circumstances such as those in paragraph
6.25.1 apply they may conclude that no loss has been suffered.
Its evident that 6.25 allows firms to consider whether no loss has been suffered and I think
the GAO would qualify as a valuable guarantee of benefits in retirement. However, I
dont think it necessarily follows that it will always be fair for a firm to include its value just
because an FSAVC plan has a GAO.
I think its important to highlight that the pensions environment has changed significantly
since the guidance was published in May 2000. The options a consumer had when taking
their benefits at that time were fairly limited. And I think its likely that it would generally have
been envisaged that the majority of consumers would take an annuity when they took the
benefits of their FSAVC plans. I think it would have been reasonable to suggest that many
consumers would have utilised their GAOs at retirement, had that been an option on their
plan. So in those circumstances, it might not have been unreasonable for a firm to consider
whether the inclusion of the GAO meant that the consumer may not have suffered a loss.
However, there have been several changes over the years to the rules for consumers
accessing their pension via drawdown, along with major changes introduced in April 2015,
widely known as pension freedoms. These changes have given consumers more flexibility in
the way they can access their pension benefits. And these freedoms apply not only to the
FSAVC plans but would also have accessible under the in-house AVC arrangement. The
result of this is that there has been a considerable decline in the number of consumers
taking annuities as drawdown or lump sum options are more widely available.I note that on another case we have considered here, Wesleyan has said that where a
valuable GAO exists, it would normally expect an investor to take it. I do accept those that
opt to take an annuity, may well utilise any guarantees available on their plans because
current annuity rates on the open market have dropped considerably. But ultimately these
changes mean that not all consumers with FSAVCs are taking an annuity  and in turn they
arent utilising the GAOs - when they take their FSAVC benefits.
In the case of Mr W, the GAO adds an additional £30,757.09 to the value of the FSAVC.
However, the GAO is only valuable if taken. If the consumer opts to take their benefits via
any other means, the value of the GAO is irrelevant. Had Mr W been a member of his 
inhouse AVC, he would also have had the option to take his benefits flexibly under
freedoms  but, as at 1 October 2019, he would have paid £4,766.18 less in charges to
the AVC.
For this reason, Im currently minded to say that, where the complaint has been upheld on
the basis that the consumer would have opted to contribute to the in-house AVC, its not
appropriate for Wesleyan to take account of the value the GAO adds to the plan.
Charges and performance
However, just because Mr W would have paid less in charges, it doesnt necessarily mean
that he has suffered a loss as a result of taking the FSAVC. And Im aware that Wesleyan
has raised this issue as it considers its FSAVC funds have performed particularly well.
As Ive said above, Im satisfied the regulators FSAVC review guidance allows a firm to
consider if no loss has been suffered and one of the instances where it can do so is where
the investment performance of the FSAVC has exceeded that of the in-house AVC
arrangement by more than the cumulative value of the lost employer contributions and any
difference in charges. So, in my final decision I intend to direct Wesleyan to carry out a
comparison between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC. If it can demonstrate that the
FSAVCs performance has exceeded the in-house AVC by more than the higher charges
Mr W has paid, then it may conclude that he has not suffered a loss as a result of taking the
FSAVC. However, if a loss is identified Wesleyan should pay Mr W the value of the excess
charges.
Im aware that, despite several attempts, Wesleyan has been unable to obtain notional
values from the in-house AVC scheme. This isnt surprising given that the firm operating the
scheme has changed over the years. So I have set out below, in the putting things right
section, details of the benchmark that Wesleyan should use to run the comparison.
What if Mr W uses the GAO when he takes his benefits?
As I understand it, Mr W is yet to take the benefits of his FSAVC plan. So I do accept there
is a possibility that when he comes to take his benefits, he may opt to take an annuity with
Wesleyan and utilise the GAO. If Mr W has also received a payment to reflect the higher
charges he has paid to the FSAVC arrangement, this could leave him in a better position
than he would have been in, had he joined his in-house AVC. He will effectively have
received a refund of the higher charges and hell also be benefitting from the increased
value the GAO adds to his FSAVC fund. In these circumstances, I dont think it would be
unreasonable for Wesleyan to take account of any payment it makes now as a result to the
higher charges when the benefits are taken, should Mr W use the GAO
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr Ws representative responded and confirmed it had nothing further to add.Wesleyan responded and said that whilst it maintained the view that the guaranteed benefits 
provided by the FSAVC plan are valuable and should be included in the loss assessment, it 
accepted the redress approach put forward in the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my provisional decision why I intended to uphold the complaint. I appreciate 
Wesleyan maintains that the GAO attached to the FSAVC plan is valuable. But, for the 
reasons explain in my provisional decision, I dont think its appropriate to take the value of 
the GAO into account. 
As both parties accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from these. So 
Ive set out below what Wesleyan needs to do to put matters right.
Putting things right
As at the date of my final decision:
If Wesleyan wishes to consider whether no loss has been suffered, it should calculate a
notional value for the in-house AVC scheme as if it had performed in line with the FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index for half of the investment, and for the other
half, the average rate from fixed rate bonds index. I've chosen this benchmark because this
would have achieved capital growth with a small risk to the capital. The average rate for the
fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve a reasonable
return without risk to the capital. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up
of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government
bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take a small degree of risk to
get a higher return.
So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position. It does not mean
that Mr W would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind
of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly
reflects the sort of return Mr W could have obtained from investments suited to his objective
and risk attitude.
Wesleyan should then compare the actual value of the FSAVC with this notional value. If
the actual value exceeds the notional value, no financial loss has been suffered and it need
not take any further action.
The Financial Ombudsman Service uses benchmarks like this as a proxy for the typical
growth that would have been achieved in investments that performed similarly to the
benchmark. The aim of any benchmark used in this way is for the investment provider to
achieve returns broadly in line with the benchmark, despite the charges that would
ordinarily be incurred. For that reason, Wesleyan should not deduct charges when taking
this particular step to calculate a notional value. This is consistent with the approach the
Financial Ombudsman Service takes with such benchmarks.
If Wesleyan doesn't carry out the above comparison, or the comparison produces a loss, it
must run a charges only calculation to establish the difference in charges between the
FSAVC and in-house AVC. This should be run in accordance with the regulators FSAVCreview guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Wesleyan should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If a loss is identified, Wesleyan should pay Mr W the value of the excess charges as a lump
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have
been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 40%. So making a
notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Wesleyan Assurance Society 
to calculate redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman