DRN-4164874
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) did after he made claims on his Bespoke Insurance policy.
What happened
In 2020 Mr C contracted with a builder to carry out work at his property (including the 
construction of a riding arena). Some of the work was completed later than specified in the 
contract and other work wasnt done. In January 2021 the builder abandoned the site. Mr C 
made a claim on his legal expenses insurance for assistance in pursuing a claim against the 
builder. He also made a claim on the policy for damage caused by the builder to the arena 
floor. 
NFU referred the matter to panel solicitors whose initial assessment was that it enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). Matters progressed and 
counsel was instructed to prepare court proceedings. However, in July 2022 the panel firm 
said an updated financial check found there were no longer reasonable prospects of 
recovery. As a result cover for the claim was withdrawn.
In relation to the separate claim for damage under the buildings section of the policy NFU 
said this wasnt covered. That was because the policy excluded damage caused by faulty 
design, material or workmanship. It thought that applied to this claim. 
Our investigator agreed that the claim for damage had been turned down in line with the 
policy terms. And it was reasonable of NFU to rely on the advice of the panel solicitors when 
withdrawing cover for the legal expenses claim. He thought an offer NFU subsequently 
made to cover the costs of Mr C obtaining his own prospects of recovery assessment (up to 
a value of £735 plus VAT) was fair.  He also thought NFU had provided Mr C with some 
inaccurate information after his legal expenses claim had been declined and said it should 
pay £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience that caused. 
In response to the view on the legal expenses insurance claim Mr C didnt agree the 
compensation was enough. And he subsequently issued court proceedings in relation to this. 
Our investigator explained we wouldnt be giving further consideration to matters that were 
the subject of ongoing court proceedings. In relation to the damage claim as it related to the 
riding arena Mr C didnt agree this wasnt covered. He said the builder wasnt carrying out 
work when the damage was caused but was inspecting in order to provide a quote for 
drainage. So I need to reach a final decision on this issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this matter has caused Mr C a great deal of distress and hes also incurred a 
significant financial loss as a result of the failure of the builder to complete the contracted 
works. I was very sorry to learn of these issues. And I appreciate hes unhappy with what 
NFU did in relation to the claim he made on his legal expenses insurance. 
But Mr C has issued court proceedings in relation to those matters. And it wouldnt be 
appropriate for us to consider matters that are also being considered by the courts. We 
previously asked him for copies of the court papers to understand exactly what the issues in 
dispute were here but these havent been provided. 
However, in his most recent view to Mr C our investigator acknowledged that hed initiated 
legal proceedings for matters relating to the legal expenses insurance complaint (including 
the issue of compensation). And he made clear those werent issues wed be considering if 
the matter progressed to a final decision. Mr C didnt provide any comments on that point in 
response or suggest there were issues in relation to this claim that he wanted to pursue (and 
which werent subject to the ongoing court proceedings). 
As a result I havent considered matters relating to the legal expenses complaint in this 
decision. Ive focussed on the damage claim as it relates to the riding arena which is what 
Mr C did challenge in response to the investigators view (I havent seen any evidence to 
show hes taken legal action against NFU in relation to this matter). 
In considering this Ive taken into account that the relevant rules and industry guidelines say 
NFU has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy. This does cover damage to 
buildings and it defines damage as unexpected and unintended physical loss or damage. 
But it excludes damage caused by faulty design, material or workmanship. 
In this case the specific issue Mr C is concerned about (and on which hes asked for a 
decision) relates to the floor surface of the riding arena. He says damage to this was caused 
by the builder in May / June 2021 (after hed left site in relation to the other works) and when 
he was carrying out an inspection to provide a quote for drainage. While carrying out that 
inspection Mr C says the builder dug a hole which damaged an existing membrane and 
pulled up stones making the surface unsafe and meaning it needed to be replaced. 
I appreciate this issue appears to have arisen after the builder had walked off site in relation 
to the work hed previously been contracted to carry out.  Mr C may be right to say the 
damage didnt form part of the contractual work. But I dont think that makes a difference as 
theres nothing in the policy that restricts the exclusion to work carried out under a contract. 
And I do think its reasonable of NFU to conclude the damage in this case results from faulty 
workmanship. That term isnt defined in the policy but I think a reasonable interpretation of it 
would be work that has been carried out poorly. In this case I appreciate the purpose of the 
builders visit was to provide a quote but he clearly decided to carry out work as part of that 
process (presumably to establish, in his view, what further work was required which he 
would then quote for). 
Mr Cs view is that the work was unnecessary and caused damage. And I understand he 
subsequently asked another builder to look at what happened who told them the surface had 
been ruined by what the previous builder had done. All of that suggests to me that this 
relates to work that had been carried out poorly and would therefore be caught by the 
exclusion in the policy as it relates to this. So I dont think NFU acted unfairly in declining the 
claim on that basis. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman