DRN-4454261
The complaint
Miss D complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect her against losing money
to a scam.
Miss D has used a representative to bring her complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly
just refer to Miss D herself rather than the representative.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2022 Miss D says she was the victim of a
scam. She found what she believed to be a legitimate online job submitting reviews. As part
of this she believed she had to make payments so her reviews would appear valid. Miss D
says the scammer told her to move her money to her account with another business W to
make her payments to the scammer from there. She was then supposed to receive a
commission and payment in return.
As a result of the scam Miss D made the following transfers from her Monzo account. All the
transfers went to her account with W. And from there, it was sent on and lost to the
scammers.
Time and Date Amount
12.18pm 27 November 2022 £916
1.26pm 27 November 2022 £955
2.26pm 27 November 2022 £2,425
4.42pm 27 November 2022 £2,800
On 16 December 2022 Miss D reported to Monzo that shed been the victim of a scam.
Monzo responded and said they couldnt offer a refund. In summary they said the payments
had gone to Miss Ds own account with W and so she should take it up with them. Miss D
complained and when Monzo maintained their position, she referred her complaint to our
service. She had also complained to W.
In summary our Investigator recommended that the final payment (less £150 that had been
recovered) should be refunded. However, she felt that Miss D should be responsible for 50%
of her loss due to contributory negligence. And as our Investigator also upheld the complaint
against W she recommended that Monzo and W each pay 25%. The complaint about W was
resolved on that basis. Miss D accepted what our Investigator said about this complaint, but
Monzo didnt. They didnt agree they should have to make a payment and asked for an
Ombudsman to review the complaint.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im
issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment before
finalising my decision.
I accept that the payments listed above were made as a part of the overall scam. And whilst
Monzos first obligation is to follow the payment instructions provided by their customers 
they should also do all they can to prevent fraud, scams and the misappropriation of funds.
Clearly there is a balance to be struck between allowing customers ready access to their
funds and stopping and checking payments where there is an increased risk.
Whilst Miss Ds submissions suggest that her account with W was opened on the advice of
the scammers, the evidence on the linked complaint doesnt. The evidence from W shows
Miss Ds account with them was opened on 1 June 2022. And the account activity between
that date and the scam payments (on 27 November 2022) shows there were at least 11
payments from Miss Ds Monzo account to the same account with W. I think this shows that
there was an established link between the two accounts.
And whilst those 11 payments between the accounts werent of the value of those made as a
result of the scam. In the context of the established link between the accounts, I dont think it
was unreasonable for Monzo to process Miss Ds payment instructions without doing more
than they did first. I understand the argument that a series of payments of increasing value
can be indicative of a potential scam. And that Monzo shouldnt automatically assume that
Miss D wasnt at risk of potential harm from fraud just because the payments were going to
an account in her name. But I have to balance that against what I think is reasonable and
proportionate in the circumstances of this complaint. In wasnt unusual for Miss D to top up
her Monzo account, either from a savings pot or externally, before either spending or
sending the money on. I accept the account activity on 27 November 2022 represented an
increase in the value of the transfers from the account. I just dont think it was so unusual or
suspicious that Id expect Monzo to have intervened. And as such, I dont think they
reasonably should have prevented the loss in this way.
I also dont think anything Monzo did or didnt do would have impacted what could be
recovered. Miss D accepts the account she paid was her own. And had funds remained, she
could have obtained them directly from W herself.
Miss Ds complaint form to our service also mentioned that she would like Monzo to pay her
£500 compensation and to cover any legal fees shes incurred. As I dont think Monzo fairly
and reasonably caused Miss Ds loss or that theyve provided poor service, there isnt a
reasonable basis upon which I can require them to provide redress or compensation.
The choice to use a representative to bring her complaint was Miss Ds. And if she has
incurred costs in doing so, that isnt something that I think Monzo are responsible for.
Monzo didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss D responded with some further 
comments that Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D maintains that Monzo ought to have intervened in the payments. Shes pointed out 
that multiple payments, increasing in value can be indicative of a potential scam. Shes also 
said that just because the payments were going to her own account, this doesnt mean the 
bank can sidestep their responsibility to her. Ive acknowledged both these things in my provisional decision. But it still must be balanced 
against what can reasonably be expected. And in the circumstances of this complaint, 
particularly in the context of the sums involved and the history of payments from Miss Ds 
Monzo account to her account with W, I just dont think Monzo not intervening at the time 
was unreasonable. 
Miss D made some further comments as to the nature of the questions she thinks should 
have been asked (had Monzo intervened). And she also mentioned the British Standards 
Institutes (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  Protecting Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud 
Code. 
As I dont think it was unreasonable for Monzo not to have intervened, there is no merit in 
discussing any questions or warnings that likely would have followed. And Ive taken account 
of the BSI report Miss D has mentioned, but it doesnt change my thoughts as to the 
outcome of this complaint. The crux of this complaint is a matter of balance and 
proportionality as to what can fairly and reasonably be expected. And as I said in my 
provisional decision, I accept the account activity on 27 November 2022 represented an 
increase in the value of the transfers from the account. I just dont think it was so unusual or 
suspicious that Id expect Monzo to have intervened. And as such, I dont think they 
reasonably should have prevented the loss in this way. So despite my natural sympathy for 
Miss D losing money as she did, Im not going to direct that Monzo need to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman