DRN-3879144
The complaint
Mr W complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna) have wrongly refused to backdate a default on his loan account.
What happened
Mr W took out a loan with Novuna in August 2015. In June 2018, finding himself in financial 
difficulty, Mr W worked with another business to put in place a debt management 
programme. That other business contacted Novuna on 27 June 2018, proposing a reduced 
monthly payment. Novuna says that it agreed this reduced payment for a period of 12 
months, and that this agreement was kept to. In May 2019, Novuna sold Mr Ws account to 
another business.
Mr W says that Novuna should have registered a default on his account from June 2018, 
when he entered the debt management programme and arrears began to accrue. He says 
that, by failing to register this as a default, Novuna have unfairly delayed the date at which a 
default would no longer show on his credit reference file. He says that this is the approach 
that other creditors have agreed to take with him. Novuna says that he was keeping to an 
agreement, and so registering a default was not appropriate. It has agreed to apply the 
default from May 2019, when it sold the debt. It has paid Mr W £50 to reflect its failure to do 
this proactively.
Mr W argues that this is not fair. He makes several points in relation to this, but ultimately 
argues that the agreement was inevitably causing further arrears to accrue, and that the loan 
ought to have been treated as being in default once these arrears amounted to three 
months worth of payments. He says that other creditors acceptance of this supports his 
argument.
Our investigator thought that Novuna had treated Mr W fairly. They thought that the 
agreement which was put in place by the debt management programme would have meant 
registering a default any earlier was unfair.
Mr W did not agree and so this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr Ws offer to pay a reduced monthly sum to Novuna was made through another 
business, I am satisfied that it was an effective offer, which was accepted. This amounted to 
an agreement between Mr W and Novuna that the latter would accept reduced payments 
toward the account. Novunas notes from the time show that it was accepted for a period of 
twelve months, at which time Novuna could revisit the situation. I think that is a fair way of 
approaching such an offer. Mr Ws finances could improve or deteriorate, and it is fair to 
revisit such plans. It is agreed between the parties that Mr W kept to the agreement. The 
relevant Information Commissioners Office guidance says that a default will not normally be 
registered in these circumstances.
I have considered whether there was anything in Mr Ws circumstances which would support 
departing from this usual position in his case. I am satisfied that there was not. An 
agreement was being kept to. If Novuna had registered the default during that period, then 
Mr W could reasonably have complained that this was unfair. While it would now be to his 
advantage to register the default as early as possible, lenders are under a duty to report 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies. Until the debt was sold, Mr W was 
keeping to an agreement with Novuna. It would not be accurate to report the loan as being in 
default until that stage.
I have considered what Mr W says about other lenders, and I can understand that he sees 
this as unfair. But, while I understand the difficulty Mr W has with this apparent 
inconsistency, the decisions of other creditors cannot bind Novuna. It must treat him fairly 
and reasonably, and in accordance with its wider duties as a responsible lender. I agree that 
registering the default from the time at which the debt was sold would be fair, and I can see 
that this has been done. The £50 already paid to Mr W reasonably reflects any distress and 
inconvenience which has been caused to him. I am not going to ask Novuna to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman