DRN-2297385
The complaint
Mr P complaints that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have mishandled his buildings insurance 
claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, however, Mr Ps complaint concerns UKIs handling of his 
buildings insurance claim and the fact that he is yet to receive a full repair to the damage in 
his kitchen. 
UKI have so far only offered a temporary solution to repair Mr Ps kitchen, as theyve said 
they cannot carry out a full repair until the joists in the flat above are replaced, which is the 
responsibility of the local council.
UKI have been in contact with the local council to arrange this, but until such time that this is 
agreed, they have offered the following:
To carry out temporary repairs to the hole in the ceiling; return Mr Ps goods/contents 
from storage; carry out a deep clean of the kitchen.
Pay disturbance allowance at a rate of £15 per day for a total of 72 days  spanning 
the period of 20 October 2019 to 31 December 2019.
Mr P has declined UKIs offer and had further refused to let them into his house until they 
agree to carry out full repairs.
Our investigator thought that UKIs offer to carry out temporary repairs was fair, as they 
could not reasonably carry out full repairs until the council had taken action on the joists and 
floorboards in the flat above. He also thought their offer of disturbance allowance was also 
fair, but noted there were avoidable delays of around two weeks in their handling of the 
claim, for which he recommended they pay £200 compensation. UKI accepted this, but Mr P 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it, but only in part.
In terms of the repairs to Mr Ps kitchen, UKI have shown from their engineers report that 
they are unable to carry out full and lasting repairs until the joists are replaced in the flat 
above, as any new plasterboard would perish underneath rotten joists. However, this 
required the co-operation of the local council and I can see that UKI have contacted them on 
numerous occasions to present their findings, and also to chase them into taking action as 
soon as possible. But it seems the council have been very slow to act in these 
circumstances, but I understand they have since investigated and progress is being made  
albeit slowly given the prevailing circumstances presented by the coronavirus pandemic.
These delays are outside of UKIs control and seem to have been largely unavoidable in the 
circumstances. The insurer cannot compel the council to act, and neither can they force the 
repairs as the joists and floorboards are not located within Mr Ps flat or indemnified under 
his policy. But I think UKI have been proactive and have done as much as they reasonably 
can to get the council to take action. And this service has no jurisdiction over local 
government agencies, so I am unable to comment on or make any award for the acts of 
omissions of the council. 
UKI offered Mr P a temporary repair on 15 November 2019, to patch the hole in the ceiling 
and carry out a deep clean until such time that they can affect a full repair. I think this is a 
reasonable offer, as its the most they can reasonably do until the council repair the rotten 
joists. However, this isnt to say that is the most UKI will need to do, as they are still obliged 
to carry out the full repair as soon as they are able to. And if Mr P has any further concerns 
about UKIs handling of his claim or subsequent repairs, he will need to raise this with the 
insurer as a separate complaint, as this decision concerns only the acts/omissions 
responded to in UKIs final response of 7 September 2020.  
UKI have also offered to pay disturbance allowance to Mr P at a rate of £15 per day between 
the period of 21 October 2019 to 31 December 2019. UKI offered Mr P alternative 
accommodation, but this was declined. And given that they have since offered Mr P 
temporary repairs and a kitchen pod to use as of 19 November 2019 (which has also been 
declined) I dont think its reasonable to expect the insurer to go on paying the disturbance 
allowance indefinitely as they have made reasonable attempts to make Mr Ps living situation 
more comfortable, which he has declined. So I consider that their offer to pay the allowance 
to 31 December 2019 is fair in the circumstances.
However, I acknowledge that certain aspects of UKIs handling of the claim could have been 
better, and they have also acknowledged that there have been avoidable delays of around 
two weeks in the progression of Mr Ps claim. So I consider this element of the complaint 
should be upheld and compensation awarded. Our investigator recommended an award of 
£200 (on top of the offer already made by UKI as outlined above), which I consider to be fair 
compensation.
Finally, Mr P also says UKI have not complied with his freedom of information (FOI) request. 
However, a FOI request provides public access to information held by public authorities. UKI 
is not a public authority and is a private limited company. As such, they do not need to 
respond to such requests. I note that they also offered to respond to a subject access 
request if there was any information Mr P wanted, but this was declined as he said he 
wanted them to comply with his FOI request. So, in the circumstances, I cannot say that UKI 
have done anything wrong in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part and direct UK Insurance Limited 
to:
Carry out temporary repairs (including a deep clean) to the kitchen until such time 
that the full repairs can be completed;
Pay disturbance allowance at a rate of £15 per day from 20 October 2019 to 
31 December 2019;
Pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the avoidable 
delays.Mr P should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, Mr P rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact itll purely be a matter between him and UKI as to whether they chose to comply with 
the above direction. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after rejection of it 
has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman