DRN-1909340
The complaint
Mrs G says Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank (Northern) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) when she took out a loan in September 2004.
What happened
Mrs G applied for a loan in 2004. Mrs G took out PPI with the loan at the same time.
Mrs G borrowed £5,000 to be repaid over three years. The PPI policy cost £830 and was 
added to the loan so Mrs G borrowed £5,830 in total.
The PPI covered Mrs G in case she could not work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. If Mrs G could not work due to an accident or sickness the PPI would have 
paid a monthly benefit of £163.05 until Mrs G returned to work or the loan was repaid.           
If Mrs G lost her job the benefit could have been paid for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so her complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs G applied for the loan by telephone and was then sent paperwork to sign and return. 
After so many years it isnt surprising that there is no recording of the telephone call 
available. But Northern has been able to show us copies of the credit agreement signed by 
Mrs G on 20 September 2004.
I can see the £830 loan for the PPI is set out separately from the main £5,000 loan on the 
credit agreement. The credit agreement sets out the interest it would attract, and the monthly 
amount of £27.32 that the PPI would add to her monthly repayment.
I also note that there are two prominent statements on the credit agreement. One for Mrs G 
to confirm she wanted the PPI, the other for her to decline it. I can see that Mrs G has signed 
below the statement to accept PPI.
Whilst I cant know what was said to Mrs G during the telephone call, the paperwork from the 
time suggests the optional nature of the policy was made clear. Taking into account 
everything Ive seen I think its most likely Northern told Mrs G she didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that she chose to buy it. Although I can understand why she might not recall this 
after so many years.I think its most likely Northern recommended Mrs G buy the PPI. That means it had to make 
sure it was right for her. And from what Ive seen it looks like it was.
I can see Mrs G was eligible for the policy. It didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as 
if these wouldve affected Mrs G. For example, she didnt have any medical conditions that 
wouldnt be covered.
Mrs G has told us she was entitled to full sick pay from her employer for up to three months 
if she couldnt work due to ill health. This would be followed by a further three months at half 
pay. But this particular policy couldve paid out a monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay 
and until Mrs G returned to work or the loan was repaid. And it couldve paid out for up to 12 
months if Mrs G lost her job. So, I think Mrs G wouldve found the policy useful if things went 
wrong.
And Mrs G has told us she had no other means such as savings that she could have relied 
on.
So, I think Mrs G had a need for the cover and the policy sold to her by Northern was right 
for her.
As well as making sure the policy was right for her, Northern should also have given Mrs G 
clear information about the policy so she could decide whether to buy it. Its possible 
Northern didnt give Mrs G all the information it shouldve done, but that is not enough for me 
to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide if it is likely Mrs G would have changed her 
mind and not bought the policy if she had been given all the information she should have.
Ive thought about this, but I think Mrs G agreed to buy the policy and was interested in this 
type of cover. And she appears to have had a need for the cover. The policy seems to have 
been right for her so I dont think any clearer information wouldve put Mrs G off taking it out. 
So, I dont think shes lost out because of anything Northern mightve done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint, and I make no award against 
Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman