DRN-3241602
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the amount that IGO4 Limited charged her when she cancelled her 
motor insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mrs L cancelled her policy after 74 days cover. IGO4 said Mrs L would have to pay £349.30 
to cancel her policy. This amount included commission and interest. But Mrs L thought 
commission shouldnt be charged and the interest she had already paid should be included 
in the calculation.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was unfair 
for IGO4 to charge commission as the amount hadnt been made clear when Mrs L took out 
her policy. He checked the calculations and thought that Mrs L needed to pay £169.85 to 
cancel with the commission deducted. He also thought IGO4 should pay Mrs L £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its unclear communications when she 
tried to learn how the cancellation charge had been calculated.
IGO4 replied that it thought it had acted correctly at the time of the cancellation, but it agreed 
to remove the commission. But it thought it was being held to blame for delays in resolving 
Mrs Ls complaint. And so it thought it shouldnt need to pay her any compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
IGO4 agreed to remove the commission it charged when Mrs L cancelled her policy. Im 
satisfied that, as our investigator explained, in keeping with our approach, the amount to be 
charged should have been made clear to Mrs L when she took out the policy. But it wasnt. 
And so I agree that removing the commission from the cancellation charges is a fair and 
reasonable response. 
What remains for me to decide is the level of service provided by IGO4 to Mrs L when she 
asked for clarification of the cancellation charge she was asked to pay. 
Mrs L said her total years premium was £1,102.50. When the policy was cancelled after 74 
days, she was told she needed to pay £549.73. I think it was reasonable for Mrs L to ask for 
a breakdown of how this significant amount had been calculated. Mrs L said she called IGO4 
and the agent couldnt provide this. An explanation was provided in writing. This said she 
owed £346.58. Mrs L asked for a breakdown of this amount, but this wasnt then provided. 
So she made a complaint. 
In response, IGO4 said the charges included its cancellation charge of £75 and a telematics 
renewal fee of £90. Mrs L accepted these. But she said she didnt know that she would be 
charged for IGO4s commission. And she thought IGO4 had twice charged her for interest. 
But IGO4 was then unwilling to provide any further explanation about the charges so that 
Mrs L could understand them. I dont think this was fair or reasonable. 
Our investigators then asked IGO4 for further details of its charges. These took some time to 
be provided, and then they had to be further clarified. So I cant say that the investigation 
caused delays in resolving the complaint so that the impact on Mrs L shouldnt be 
considered. 
IGO4 agreed that it had provided the incorrect amount to cancel the policy, £349.30 rather 
than £349.45. It thought this was due to a typo. IGO4 thought its charges included a 
clawback of a discount. But it later agreed this was incorrect as this term only applied to 
commercial policies. IGO4 charged Mrs L £176.99 for commission, which it agrees was 
unfair. 
It was only after the complaint came to our service that IGO4 provided a full breakdown of 
how Mrs Ls charges for her policy had been calculated. Our investigator has set out this 
breakdown. This calculation included the charges for cancellation and telematics and pro-
rata charges for time on cover and interest set against what Mrs L had already paid. I cant 
see that IGO4 has challenged this. So Im satisfied that the total cancellation amount due is 
£169.85. 
I think IGO4 should have provided Mrs L with better and clearer information about the 
charges it applied at the time she asked for this. Being asked to pay extra and for 
unexplained amounts has caused her distress. And she has had the trouble of pursuing this 
to resolve the matter. 
I think IGO4 should compensate Mrs L for this avoidable trouble and upset. Our investigator 
recommended that IGO4 should pay Mrs L £100 compensation for this. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as it reflects the impact the level of service had on Mrs L and its in keeping with 
our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require IGO4 Limited to waive its commission charge, as its agreed to do, and pay Mrs L 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service so that 
Mrs L needs to pay £69.85 for cancelling her policy.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require IGO4 
Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman