DRN-3235420
The complaint
Mr E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as B) wont refund the money he lost 
when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr E says that he was looking online to buy a Ford Ranger and in September 2019 he found 
one to his desired specification. Unknown to him, the seller was in fact a scammer.
Mr E did his research on the cars history as well as the company selling it before visiting a 
branch of Clydesdale Bank, where a member of staff helped him to send £8,550 to the seller 
using the banking app on Mr Es mobile.
Around a week later, when the car didnt arrive by the agreed date, Mr E realised that 
something had gone wrong. He reported the matter to Clydesdale Bank, and it looked into 
recovering the money from the recipient bank. But the money had already been transferred 
out. 
Clydesdale Bank said it wouldnt refund the money as Mr E had authorised the payment and 
it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recover the money from the 
recipient bank.
Unhappy with this response, Mr E referred the matter to our service. He felt Clydesdale Bank 
failed in its duty to protect him from fraud and should have done more, especially since hed 
made a large-value payment to a new payee and it was done in branch with assistance from 
one of its employees. Mr E thought Clydesdale Bank should have warned him about the 
potential risk, specifically that the payee name could have been fabricated. He told us theres 
no doubt he would have aborted the payment instruction had the bank asked the right 
questions. Mr E also complained that Clydesdale Bank didnt call him to check the 
transaction was genuine like it had done on a previous occasion when a payment was made 
in a similar way.
Our investigator accepted that the payment in question was large and had gone to a new 
payee. But he also considered Mr Es account history and thought it wasnt unusual or out of 
character to give Clydesdale Bank cause for concern. He concluded that the help Mr E 
received in making the payment using his mobile app was informal and not akin to 
processing it in-branch using the banks systems, where the member of staff would have 
been able to access Mr Es account history. The investigator was also satisfied that 
Clydesdale Bank did enough in its attempt to recover Mr Es loss once it became aware of 
the scam.
Mr E disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. In summary:
- Hes quoted the British Standards Institutions code of practice (BSI:PAS 2017) and 
in particular the section about banks having measures in place to detect suspicious 
transfers or activities that might indicate fraud or financial abuse.
- He says that the Banking Protocol  an initiative focusing on identifying any in-branch 
transactions which appear out of character for a customer with the aim of preventing 
fraud  is also relevant here given the active involvement of the branch staff in 
completing the transaction.
- He disagrees with the investigators opinion that the payment wasnt unusual or out 
of character based on his spending profile.
- He reiterates that Clydesdale Bank intervened during a previous large-value payment 
but didnt do so on this occasion. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr E; hes clearly been the victim of a cruel and 
sophisticated scam. My role is to consider Clydesdale Banks actions, and I can only make 
an award or direction if I find that it acted unfairly.
Its common ground that Mr E authorised the payment using his security credentials. So, 
while I recognise that he didnt intend for the money to go to scammers, the starting position 
in law is that Clydesdale Bank was expected to follow his instructions and process the 
payment. Mr E isnt automatically entitled to a refund. This is because under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice (including the BSI code that Mr E referred to in his 
submission to our service) and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Clydesdale Bank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers against the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive first considered whether the Banking Protocol is relevant here. The Banking Protocol is 
aimed at the branch staff in identifying customers who are in the process of being defrauded 
and implementing safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further 
loss of funds. 
In this case, although the transaction physically took place inside a branch, it didnt involve 
any in-branch systems or terminals which the branch staff would normally have used to 
process a payment instruction. So, the transaction wasnt processed in the traditional sense of branch-based banking where a member of staff would have accessed Mr Es profile, 
including but not limited to his payment history and other account information, while 
processing the payment.
As the investigator explained, and I agree, in Mr Es case the payment was made on his 
phone by him with support from a member of staff. Strictly speaking, the Banking Protocol 
doesnt apply here. But even if it did, by Mr Es own account the staff member asked him the 
reason for the payment while they were assisting him. They also asked Mr E to check the 
payment details and confirm that he was happy to send the money. So, it appears that 
Clydesdale Bank did make some enquiries at the time.
Mr E says he informed the staff member that he was buying a car and mentioned the 
website he was buying it from. I dont consider his response ought to have alerted the 
member of staff to the possibility that he was being scammed. The payment in question was 
to a new payee and was larger in value in comparison with Mr Es usual spending. But 
I dont consider these facts themselves meant that the payment was sufficiently unusual to 
require Clydesdale Bank to take any further action. Theres a balance to be struck between 
identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately 
to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments.  
Even if Clydesdale Bank had made further enquiries like Mr E suggests it should have, Im 
not persuaded the scam would have been uncovered. I say this because Mr E has told us 
that he did his due diligence, including reassuring himself that the company was a legitimate 
and professional business. So, any answers given to additional questions would likely have 
reflected this confidence. Im also mindful that hes told us this approach of buying a car 
wasnt new to him and that on a previous occasion hed bought a vehicle online and had 
paid in full in advance of delivery. Therefore, it is my judgement that Mr Es responses would 
have only gone on to reassure Clydesdale Bank that there was nothing untoward about this 
payment.   
Mr E has said that Clydesdale Bank should have warned him about the possibility of the 
payee name being fabricated. But at the time, all that was required to make a payment was 
the sort code and account number. The impact of this is that the payment was correctly 
processed if it went to the account number and sort code instructed by the payer (here, 
Mr E). There was no regulatory requirement to check the beneficiary name provided. So, Im 
not persuaded that Clydesdale Bank should have done more to check the beneficiary name 
or discuss this with Mr E. From what Mr E has said, Im satisfied it asked him to check that 
he was happy with the payment details before authorising the transaction. So, I think it did 
enough in that respect. 
  
Ive also considered what Mr E has said about Clydesdale Banks intervention when he 
made a payment of a similar amount in March 2019.  Its not for our service to dictate the 
checks that Clydesdale Bank should do or the questions it should ask. Just because a 
previous payment was flagged for additional checks doesnt mean every subsequent 
payment of a similar nature will as well. As Ive explained, a relatively larger payment to a 
new payee doesnt automatically imply that Clydesdale Bank should have identified that 
Mr E could be at risk of fraud. Looking at the account history in the ten months leading to this 
transaction, it follows an established pattern of large-value payments crediting the account 
(presumably from one of Mr Es own accounts) just before being transferred out. And for the 
reasons Ive already set out regarding Mr Es due diligence and car purchase history, Im not 
persuaded a subsequent call or further discussion would have led to the scam being 
uncovered. 
Mr E reported the scam to Clydesdale Bank on 1 October 2019 and it contacted the bank 
that received his funds the same day. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the recipient account. I understand why Mr E didnt report the scam sooner, but I dont find it surprising 
that the funds couldnt be subsequently recovered. Scammers usually remove funds 
immediately to avoid the possibility of them being recovered. But I dont think theres 
anything further Clydesdale Bank could have done to recover the money.
Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that Clydesdale Bank acted fairly and 
reasonably in following Mr Es payment instructions and in its subsequent dealings with him 
about this matter. So, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold it responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman