DRN-2575404
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited is unfairly restricting the basis on 
which he can take his pension benefits. He says this isnt in the spirit of the pension 
freedoms legislation.
Mr S also complains that Aviva gave him incorrect information about the amount of tax free 
cash he was entitled to if he transferred his pension fund to a drawdown product.
What happened
Mr S has an Executive Pension Plan with Aviva. Under the terms of the policy he is able to 
take enhanced tax free cash (ETFC) of up to around 40% of the value of the fund. This is 
more than the usual amount of 25%. 
In 2017 Mr S made enquiries with Aviva about taking his pension benefits. He says Aviva 
told him the only way he could take the ETFC was if the remaining fund was used to buy an 
annuity with Aviva. Mr S didnt want to do this because annuity rates werent favourable.
Mr S wouldve preferred to drawdown from the remaining fund, once hed taken the ETFC. 
But Aviva said this wasnt possible under the terms of his policy.
Mr S says he was told by Aviva on several occasions that if he transferred to a policy that 
allowed drawdown he would lose the option to take the ETFC. He says he was told that in 
those circumstances he would be able to take 25% of the value of the fund as tax free cash.
Mr S complained to Aviva that its restrictions meant he couldnt access his pension fund as 
he wanted to. He said this wasnt in the spirit of the pension freedoms legislation introduced 
in 2015.
In Avivas response, it said Mr S could take tax free cash up to the amount of the ETFC if it 
was through an Aviva policy.
But if Mr S wanted to drawdown from his pension fund he would need to transfer to a 
different policy or provider. In those circumstances he would lose the ability to take tax free 
cash before he made the transfer.
Mr S said this conflicted with what Aviva has said previously, when it told him he could take 
25% as tax free cash if he transferred to a drawdown policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that if Mr S wanted to take his 
ETFC he would need to buy an annuity with Aviva. She also found that if he transferred to a 
plan that allowed drawdown he would only be entitled to take 25% as tax free cash. The 
investigator said that the funds would need to be uncrystallised before they transferred to the 
new provider, which meant Mr S wouldnt be able to take any tax free cash at all before the 
transfer. She was satisfied that Aviva had explained this to Mr S.
The investigator wasnt persuaded that the terms of Avivas policy meant it was acting 
unfairly. She said the pension freedoms legislation was enabling rather than compelling, 
which meant individual providers could decide the terms on which they would allow 
customers to take their benefits.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said he was still unclear on how 
much tax free cash he could take, because the investigators conclusions appeared to differ 
from what Aviva had told him.
Mr S also maintained that Aviva was unfairly restricting his pension options, which was 
causing him financial loss.
The complaint has been passed to me for review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the information provided to Mr S by Aviva about the amount of tax 
free cash hes able to take, and in what circumstances. Ive also asked Aviva to clarify 
exactly what Mr S is able to do. 
My understanding is that If Mr S wants to take his ETFC he can only do so through an 
annuity with Aviva. He can choose how much tax free cash he wants to take, up to the value 
of the ETFC.
Aviva has also said:
Mr S would be able to transfer his benefits from his current policy to another Aviva policy 
that facilitates drawdown. This would allow him to take 25% TFC. He would lose the further 
[ETFC] he has. If Mr S requested this, he may also have to receive financial advice first. 
My understanding is that any transfer to a new policy would need to be made before the tax 
free cash can be taken  although Aviva hasnt specified this in its most recent 
communication. 
With that in mind, Ive thought about the information Aviva gave Mr S when he was deciding 
what to do with his benefits. He had several online discussions with Aviva in June 2017. It 
seems that on each occasion Aviva told Mr S that if he moved out of his executive pension 
plan, he would lose his entitlement to the ETFC  which was correct. 
He was also told that if he moved his fund to a different product with Aviva he could only 
take 25% as tax free cash. In another conversation he was told that if he moved his pension 
fund away from Aviva his available tax free cash entitlement would drop from 43% to 25%.
When Aviva wrote to Mr S on 18 November it said:
However, it would not be possible to take any amount of Tax Free Cash, then transfer the 
remaining fund to Drawdown.
Mr S took this to mean that if he had a drawdown policy he wouldnt be able to take any tax 
free cash at all. I can see how the confusion may have arisen. I think that what Aviva meant 
to say was that the 25% tax free cash could only be taken after the policy had been 
transferred to a new policy that facilitated drawdown.I accept that some of Avivas communication could have been clearer, but overall Im 
satisfied that the information it gave Mr S about the way in which he could take his benefits 
was correct.
Mr S considers Avivas policy terms arent in keeping with the spirit of the pension freedoms 
legislation. I can understand why he considers Avivas rules mean he will suffer financial loss 
 either through poor annuity rates or losing the ETFC. 
But as the investigator has said, the pension freedom legislation is enabling rather than 
compulsory. And in general terms it is beyond the remit of this service to tell Aviva how to 
apply the legislation to its policies. So while I can see why Mr S is unhappy, Im not 
persuaded that Aviva is required to treat his policy differently so that he can take is benefits 
as he wants to. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman