DRN-3841121
The complaint
Mr M complains about the valuation that Aviva Insurance Limited placed on his car following 
a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants this increased.
What happened
Mr Ms car was declared a total loss, and Aviva offered him £2,950, less the policy excess, 
as the cars pre-accident value in settlement of his claim. Mr M wanted to retain the cars 
salvage and so Aviva deducted £885 from the settlement. Mr M thought the valuation was 
unfair as it hadnt taken into account the cars low mileage, its attraction as a convertible 
during the summer months, and its hard top. Mr M also thought the salvage deduction was 
too high.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Avivas 
valuation had been made correctly according to our approach taking into account the 
mileage and the season. The hard top wasnt damaged in the incident. So he thought that 
Aviva not including it in the valuation hadnt caused Mr M any loss. If it had included it, he 
thought it could then have deducted its full value from the settlement leaving Mr M in the 
same position.
Mr M replied that the hard top was an integral part of the car and should have been included 
in the valuation and then an appropriate deduction made for the retained salvage. Mr M 
asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. He said hed lost 
about £1,000 in the settlement. The Investigator has explained this services approach to car 
valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is 
reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought that Avivas valuation of Mr Ms car was fair, so Ive checked how 
he came to this conclusion. 
I can see that Aviva, and the Investigator, looked for valuations of the car with the correct 
make, model, age, mileage, optional extras (excluding the hard top) and condition in the 
motor trade guides we use at the date of loss. So Im satisfied that the cars low mileage and 
its seasonal attractiveness were taken into account.
Aviva offered Mr M the highest valuation provided by the guides. And it didnt make any 
deductions for the cars pre-accident damage or its MOT failure, as it could have done. I 
think this was very fair and reasonable.
Mr M thought Aviva should provide him with evidence to support its valuations. But Aviva 
isnt required to do this. As the Investigator explained, its for Aviva to decide how to 
indemnify Mr M. Its chosen to pay him the cars pre-accident market value, as its entitled to 
do by the policys terms and conditions. And I can reassure Mr M that I can see that it carried 
out its valuations of the cars market value correctly according to our approach. 
Mr M was also unhappy that Aviva hadnt considered adverts he provided of similar cars 
advertised for higher prices. But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as 
these are essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade 
guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
The undamaged hard top wasnt included in the valuation and Mr M retained it. Mr M thought 
it should be included as it was integral to the car. But from what Ive seen I cant be satisfied 
that this was part of the manufacturers build but an after-market addition. 
This is because Avivas engineers report states in the list of specifications that the car had 
hard top preparation, but it was equipped with an electric folding roof. Theres no mention 
of it having a hard top as part of the specification. 
The date stamped images taken by the engineer show the car with a soft-top roof. And Mr M 
didnt raise this as an issue until his complaint came to us. So Im not satisfied that the hard 
top should be regarded as an integral part of the car and so included in the valuation.
As it was, Aviva provided Mr M with the highest valuation offered by the trade guides we 
use. Mr M wanted to retain the cars salvage and so Aviva made a deduction for the cars 
salvage value. 
The hard top was undamaged and so it had no salvage value for Aviva to retain. Mr M 
retained the roof without any deduction for its full value. So I cant say that Mr M has been 
caused any loss or treated unfairly. And I dont require Aviva to include the hard top in its 
valuation of the car. 
Aviva deducted 30% of the cars value for the salvage value. Its shown us evidence that this 
is less than it would have earned if it had sold the salvage via its agents. So I think thats fair 
and reasonable. 
So, in summary, I think Aviva has assessed the market value of Mr Ms car at the date of its 
loss fairly and reasonably and in keeping with our approach. And I dont require it to increase 
this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman