DRN-2853852
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse him after he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mr D agreed the sale of a valuable watch. He informed the buyer that they could collect it 
once hed received payment into his account. 
On seeing that his balance had increased by the sale amount  £7,000, he allowed the 
buyer to collect the watch.
The following day, his balance was reduced by the same amount and it came to light that the 
buyer had paid using an invalid cheque from a closed account.
Mr D contacted Santander. It said the matter was a civil dispute and it couldnt help. Mr D 
didnt agree  he thought it wasnt clear that the payment was a cheque and Santander 
hadnt taken his complaint seriously. In recognition of some contradictory statements in their 
communication, Santander paid Mr D £50.
One of our investigators didnt uphold the complaint. They thought Mr D ought to have done 
more than check the balance of his account before releasing the watch and, had he done so, 
it would have been apparent that a cheque had been received.
Mr D disagreed. He said that his balance shouldnt have increased by the value of the 
cheque if it hadnt cleared and his mobile banking application should have shown that the 
balance and balance including pending transactions were different, but that wasnt the 
case.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sympathetic towards Mr Ds position. Hes been the victim of a devious scam which, it 
seems, relies precisely on the victim failing to realise that theyve been paid by a cheque 
before releasing goods. But in order to uphold this complaint, Id have to be satisfied that Mr 
D has reasonably relied on incorrect or misleading information provided by Santander. I 
dont think thats the case and Ill explain why. 
Im not sure exactly what Mr Ds mobile banking application would have shown on the day in 
question. He says that both the balance and balance including pending increased to include 
the £7,000. Santander dispute this  saying that the cheque would not have been added to 
the balance of the account because it was still pending, but it would have been visible in the 
running balance for the transaction.
Santander havent provided any evidence to support this position and I think its very likely 
Mr D did see that his balance had increased  I dont think hed release the watch if he 
hadnt and messages between him and the buyer show that he confirmed receipt of the 
funds. Its also clear that the running account total from the day the cheque was deposited 
does show that the balance of the account increased. Given that the balance including 
pending would presumably include any pending transactions (such as the cheque) I have to 
assume that would have included the £7,000 too.
But, even accepting Mr D is right  and both balances increased, Im not persuaded that this 
amounts to Santander making a representation that cleared funds had credited his account. 
As Mr Ds own screenshot shows, the deposit was clearly labelled as a cheque and, while 
the transaction list might not be visible from the screen Mr D would have seen showing his 
various different accounts, this information was readily accessible to him by viewing the 
specific account in question. And, I dont think its in dispute that, if Mr D had seen that the 
payment was a cheque, he would have been more cautious about releasing the watch. Its 
also likely (though I dont have any conclusive evidence) that the cheque would have shown 
as pending on the account specific screen. 
So, while I can understand why Mr D feels the way the balances are displayed is misleading, 
overall Santander provided Mr D with sufficient information for him to establish that hed 
received a cheque. As such, I dont think the information it provided overall was incorrect or 
misleading and I cant hold it responsible for Mr Ds loss. 
Mr D hasnt commented further on the customer service aspects of his original complaint, 
but, for completeness, Im satisfied the £50 paid is adequate to address the upset caused by 
Santanders contradictory communications. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman