DRN-2879376
The complaint
 Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) took too long to send him a replacement debit 
card after his was cancelled due to being the victim of a scam.  
What happened
In March 2019, Mr B fell victim to a scam in which he gave his card details to a fraudster as 
he believed he was in contact with the council who were due to pay him a refund. The 
following day, he realised this was a scam and went into branch to inform TSB. They 
blocked his card, managed to prevent one £600 payment leaving his account, and reported 
the scam to the beneficiary bank. Four days later £1,100 relating to the scam left his account 
 but TSB refunded this on the 25 March when he attended branch for the second time. 
Whilst in branch, Mr B also ordered a new debit card. 
Mr B said he then had to return to branch on four further occasions as he received four 
replacement debit cards that didnt work. This meant he was without a debit card for 
approximately eight weeks. He did receive one payment from TSB for £25 for travel 
expenses and the inconvenience caused. 
Mr B complained to TSB  he felt that the fraudulent payment of £1,100 should not have 
been able to leave his account as hed been told the card had been blocked. He was also 
unhappy with the fact he had to go to branch six times, and that hed been without a card for 
so long. 
TSB felt theyd acted correctly after Mr B reported that hed given fraudsters his details. But it 
agreed that the time it took to provide a working replacement card was not ideal. Though it 
noted that Mr B was still able to access funds through different methods  such as using the 
branch to take out cash. 
Mr B remained unhappy, so he came to our service. Our investigator reviewed what 
happened, and recommended that Mr B be paid a further £100 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused by being without a working card for so long. Mr B didnt agree, so 
it has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am reaching the same conclusion as our investigator did, and for broadly 
the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr B has complained about the payment of £1,100 being allowed to go through when his 
card was cancelled; and the service issues of the repeated branch visits and the length of 
time he was without a working card, so I will deal with each point in turn. 
With regard to the payment going through, I can see that TSB blocked Mr Bs card as he had 
disclosed his card details to the fraudsters. But they didnt block his telephone or internet 
banking as Mr B had requested. The fraudsters had set up a standing order rather than a 
card payment  this meant that despite the fact the card was blocked, the payment did go 
through. I can understand why this concerned Mr B, but I can see that they refunded the 
payment within days as I would have expected. So I dont find that TSB need to do anything 
further with regard to this point of Mr Bs complaint. 
So I will turn to the service matters Mr B has complained about. It is undisputed that Mr B 
had to attend branch numerous times in order to sort out the issues caused by the initial 
fraud. Then Mr B had no working card for approximately eight weeks due to the issues with 
the replacement cards. He explained this was his only account, and it is clear he used his 
card reasonably frequently prior to this. From reviewing the file, it is clear he had to attend 
the branch on eight occasions to withdraw cash. He explained this often meant leaving work 
early to get to branch before it closed  and travelling 15-25 minutes by train or on foot. Its 
clear this caused Mr B distress and inconvenience and so I do agree that a payment was 
due in recognition of this. 
Putting things right
Whilst I know money cannot replace the time and effort spent during the time he was without 
a card, when considering the circumstances of this complaint I agree with our investigator 
that a payment of a further £100 in recognition of this is appropriate. This is in addition to the 
£25 already paid by TSB.   
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB should pay Mr B £125 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience he suffered, minus any amount already paid to him. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman