DRN-2915216
The complaint
Mr U complains Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to return money he sent to pay off his 
former wifes mortgage account 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ill only provide a summary 
here:
Mr U separated from his wife (Ms U) some time ago
They agreed he would pay off her mortgage in one lump sum
He instructed Barclays to make the payment
Later the same day, following a disagreement with Ms U, he changed his mind and 
asked it to return the money but it said it would take a few days for the payment to 
show on the mortgage
About a month later, he contacted the bank again and it asked him to get his wife to 
confirm the payment should be reversed 
She provided her instruction and Mr U was told the request would be put through and 
he should hear more in a few days
Two months later, when he still hadnt heard anything, he contacted the bank again 
but it said it was too late as the mortgage had been repaid and the legal charge over 
the property released
He complained to Barclays but it said it had acted on his instructions and hadnt done 
anything wrong so Mr U brought his complaint to this service
Our investigator said Barclays wasnt clear in communicating what Mr U needed to 
do to have the payment returned and this led to the problems he experienced
He said Barclays should refund any extra payments Mr U had made to the account 
since the problem occurred, together with interest at 8% simple on the amounts he 
paid and pay him £400 for the trouble and upset it had caused
Barclays disagreed and so the complaint has come to me to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr U asked for the payment to be made to Ms Us mortgage. He has 
now reached a private agreement with Ms U about the return of the funds so I dont need to 
consider either of these issues when reaching my decision.
What is in dispute though is whether Barclays communicated its requirements to have the 
funds returned in a timely and clear manner and thats what Ill be considering in my 
decision. In cases where the evidence is either inconclusive or conflicting  which it is in this 
case  Ill make my decision on the balance of probabilities, thats to say what I consider 
most likely in the circumstances while also keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable.
Our investigator has helpfully explained in detail what happened on this complaint and his 
reasons for upholding it, so I dont propose to repeat those here and will refer to them in 
summary only.  
Barclays internal calls in August 2020
The same day he requested the transfer, Mr U went into the branch and spoke to the 
manager to attempt to recall it. The manager phoned the mortgage department to see if this 
could be done. Ive listened very carefully to this call.
The manager spoke to the department and explained that Ms U had duped Mr U into 
making the payment. His colleague said only Ms U could authorise the return of the money 
as the funds were due to arrive into an account in her name only. 
The manager quickly responded - without speaking to Mr U first - to say that Ms U wouldnt 
agree to this this as they were separated and there was a martial dispute. He went on to say 
that Ms U falsely got Mr U to make the payment. Concluding the conversation, he explained 
hed try talking to the department that made the payment to see if they could help.
On balance, I think its more likely than not the manager made his own judgement about 
whether Ms U would authorise the return of the funds and assumed she wouldnt without 
clearly explaining the requirement to Mr U. I didnt hear anything in the conversation that 
persuades me he intended to even mention this requirement to, or discuss it with, Mr U; 
more that he planned to continue his attempts to arrange the return of the funds through 
other internal Barclays departments.
Barclays says it thinks its manager would have explained the requirement to Mr U but Ive 
not seen enough evidence to persuade me this is more likely and, on the balance of 
probabilities, I dont think Barclays made it clear to Mr U what was required during its 
communications with him at this time. This meant Mr U was deprived the opportunity to 
resolve the issue from this day.
Subsequent contact
When he didnt hear anything after the conversation in August, Mr U got back in contact with 
Barclays in September and this is when he says he was advised Ms U would need to 
authorise the return of the money. Both he and Ms U attended the branch the same day to 
make the arrangements and Barclays indicated it might still be possible for the payment to 
be reversed. But it became apparent later, it was already too late by this point.
Im satisfied this adds further weight to my conclusion above that Mr U wasnt told of the 
requirement in August as I think it more likely than not he would have attended the branch 
with Ms U shortly after the conversations as he subsequently did in September. 
It then wasnt until November 2020 when Mr U got back in contact, as he hadnt heard 
anything again from Barclays, that he was finally told that returning the funds wasnt 
possible. This was some three months after he originally requested the reversal of the 
payment and I think Barclays should have done this much quicker than it did.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Barclays should have let Mr U know what was 
required much sooner than it did and should have kept him informed about what was happening throughout the process. 
In failing to do so, things took longer than they should have and Mr U incurred extra costs as 
a consequence and he was deprived the opportunity to have the transfer reversed rather 
than having to make alternative arrangements with Ms U. It also caused him trouble and 
upset at an already difficult time.
Barclays should refund any extra payments made on his mortgage current account following 
the transfer together with interest at 8% on the amounts. It should also pay Mr U £400 for the 
trouble and upset it caused and should amend his credit file to remove any adverse 
information registered as a consequence of this issue.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Repay to Mr U any extra payments on his mortgage current account, such as interest 
and charges, that he paid following the transfer to Ms U
Pay Mr U interest on these amounts at 8% simple from the date the individual 
payments were made to the date Barclays makes settlement* 
Pay Mr U the sum of £400 for the impact of the trouble and upset it caused (by 
cheque, direct to Mr U)
Make any necessary amendments to Mr Us credit file, removing any adverse 
information reported as a consequence of this issue
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr U accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr U how much its taken off. It should also give Mr U a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman