DRN-2405655
The complaint
Mr A complains TFS Loans Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says the loan he was 
approved for was unaffordable to him.  
What happened
TFS approved Mr A for a £7,500 loan in April 2015. The loans term was 84 months with 
monthly repayments of approximately £255.
Mr A complains this loan was unaffordable to him. He says TFS did not complete reasonable 
and proportionate checks before lending to him. Mr A says had it done so TFS wouldve 
seen he had a poor financial record  including missed payments  and realised the loan 
was unaffordable to him. Mr A says he has lost out financially as a result of the loan as he 
has had to pay additional interest and charges.
TFS has defended its decision to lend to Mr A. It says it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks (largely over the phone) before it approved the loan to Mr A. It says it 
completed a detailed income and expenditure assessment and searched Mr As credit file. It 
says it was aware of Mr As missed payments, but Mr A had explained this situation during 
the affordability assessment calls he had with it. TFS also highlighted that the loan was for 
debt consolidation and as such it felt it had a good understanding of Mr As financial 
circumstances. TFS says because the checks covered Mr As main expenses and showed 
his financial circumstances that they were proportionate. It also says that because these 
checks showed the loan was affordable to Mr A that its decision to lend was reasonable.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She did not think TFS had 
completed proportionate checks. And if it had done so it wouldve seen the loan was likely 
unaffordable to Mr A. TFS disagreed with this recommendation. It says the loan was still 
affordable to Mr A, and disputes the information he has provided our service.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me to issue a final 
decision on. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint.   
TFS has objected to our investigators recommendations on the basis that it feels the loan 
was affordable to Mr A. It hasnt specifically commented on the investigators findings on 
proportionality of the checks, but for the sake of completeness Ive considered this too.
As TFS loans is aware the regulations which applied at the time, required it to carry out an 
assessment on whether Mr A could repay any loan in a sustainable way. These checks are 
referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability check.
This means TFS needed to consider if any repayments which Mr A would be required to 
make would cause him any financial difficulties or have any adverse consequences on his 
finances. The checks also needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan which was being approved.
The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to complete for them to be 
reasonable and proportionate. But these checks needed to be proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. It is also not sufficient for TFS to just complete proportionate checks. It 
also needs to consider the information it is provided with and make a fair lending decision.
TFS says it completed a detailed income and expenditure assessment on Mr A; as well as 
searching his credit file. TFS say Mr As answers gave it no reason to think the loan was 
unaffordable or that the information he had provided would be incorrect. It says Mr A 
explained this loan would be used to consolidate some of his existing debts. It says Mr A 
also provided explanations for historic missed payments on his file. It says therefore these 
checks were proportionate as they highlighted the main issues with Mr As finances.
Ive considered this argument but disagree that TFS checks were proportionate in this 
instance. Whilst it mayve had a detailed discussion with Mr A regarding his finances, Im 
satisfied there are still sufficient markers on his credit file which would warrant TFS to have 
conducted further checks. 
In particular I note that Mr As credit history had shown signs of poor management or 
potential financial hardship. There are a number of historic defaults including one such 
marker being registered a year before the application of this loan. The credit file TFS 
searched also showed that Mr A had a number of open active credit accounts including 
credit cards. Some of these credit cards had exceeded the balances. I can see one credit 
card had a limit of £3,600 and was showing as having exceeded it by nearly £300. The same 
card also had issues with missed payments in the past. Whilst these indicators may 
themselves not be enough to decline an application outright, I think they provide sufficient 
doubts about the creditworthiness of the applicant, and as such shouldve prompted TFS to 
conduct further checks in order for them to be proportionate.
I appreciate TFS says Mr A explained some of his financial history in his application calls, 
and that he was consolidating down the debt. However, Im still persuaded that the markers 
on his credit file shouldve prompted TFS to conduct further checks. TFS is aware it has an 
obligation to carefully consider the information it is provided, and especially when there is 
evidence which may be contradictory to that given in the application. So, I dont find its 
argument in relation to these persuasive. And for the reasons Ive outlined above Im 
satisfied further checks shouldve been completed to verify Mr As creditworthiness. As TFS 
didnt do this, Im satisfied its checks werent proportionate in this instance.
Our investigator felt that further checks wouldve shown the loan was unaffordable to Mr A. 
In particular she highlighted that Mr As expenses from his various bank statements meant 
he did not have enough disposable income to meet his repayment of this loan. TFS 
disagreed with this assessment. It says that Mr A was registered at various addresses at the 
time of the application; and it disputed Mr As expenses for costs such as rent. TFS 
maintained that the loan was affordable to Mr A.Ive looked through the statements and considered these in determining what further checks 
wouldve likely shown when Mr A applied for the loan. The statements show that Mr A is 
managing his account to a relatively tight budget. Whilst there is a mixture of essential and 
non-essential spending; I can see that Mr A is entering in and out of his overdraft as the 
month proceeds. Over the course of the months leading up to the application this pattern is 
consistent, suggesting he wasnt able to meet his regular commitments (which would be 
consistent with his application for debt consolidation). The statements dont appear to show 
the disposable income Mr A declared on his application.  
I appreciate some of the expenses Mr A is paying may be consolidated by the loan TFS is 
approving, but the statements dont suggest that Mr A was likely able to meet the circa £250 
monthly payment sustainably. As TFS is aware it needed to be satisfied Mr A could meet the 
repayment without incurring financial difficulties or having to borrower further. From these 
statements, as well as the information on Mr As credit file Im not persuaded this can be said 
in this instance. Mr A has shown he has issues managing credit in the past, and these 
further checks seemingly support this. As such Im satisfied had TFS requested this 
information at the time of the application it ought reasonably to have seen this too, and as 
such wouldnt have lent. 
TFS disputes some of the figures Mr A has declared for costs, but the evidence on file 
seemingly supports Mr As version of events. And Ive not seen persuasive evidence that 
would suggest Mr As expenses were lower than that which appear on his statements and 
those which he declared. So, for the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that further checks 
wouldve shown the loan was likely unaffordable to Mr A at the time he applied for it. As such 
Im satisfied TFS shouldnt have approved the loan to him.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require TFS Loans Limited to:
To add up the total amount of money Mr A received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Mr A made should be deducted from this amount.
a) If this results in Mr A having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr A.
To remove any negative information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans Limited to take off tax from this interest. TFS 
Loans Limited must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TFS Loans Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Tom WhittingtonOmbudsman