DRN-2103842
The complaint
Ms B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (American Express) will 
not refund her via the chargeback scheme for taxi services that she did not receive, that she 
paid for using her American Express credit card.
What happened
Ms B booked a taxi service to collect her from an airport in October 2019. She provided them 
with her flight details and approximate time of arrival - which was 12.35am. Ms B explained 
that she didnt receive any booking confirmation from the taxi company via text message or 
email. 
Ms Bs flight arrived early and when she made her way to arrivals she explained didnt find 
anyone waiting to collect her. She said she didnt receive any communication from the taxi 
company. So Ms B made her way to the train station and boarded the a train which departed 
at 12.46am. At approximately 12.51am, Ms B received a call from the taxi driver telling her 
he was at the airport to collect her. 
Ms B was unhappy as the driver had arrived over half an hour after her flight landed, and 
she was unable to contact them as she said she didnt have their contact details. As such 
she asked American Express to raise a chargeback, to refund her the cost of the taxi that 
had been charged to her card, but she was not refunded. 
She complained to American Express but her complaint was rejected. It explained that it 
raised a chargeback in October 2019 when Ms B had contacted them and applied a 
temporary credit to her account. It said the merchant bank responded with evidence that the 
taxi company had attempted to provide the agreed service to Ms B, but she had not been at 
the airport when they arrived. American Express said Ms B tried to raise the chargeback 
again but with no further evidence. American Express concluded that it could not uphold her 
complaint. 
Ms B came to our service as she was not happy with the response she received from 
American Express. Our investigator reviewed the evidence and felt that American Express 
had acted correctly within the chargeback process. Ms B remained dissatisfied as she feels 
that American Express should have done more, and so it has come to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
A chargeback describes the dispute resolution process between card issuers and merchants 
under the relevant card scheme rules. What this means is for this particular complaint is that 
American Express can, in some circumstances, ask for a transaction to be reversed due to 
problems with the merchant that Ms B paid. It is important to note here that the chargeback 
process is a voluntary scheme and isnt guaranteed to result in a refund. It all depends on 
what the merchant says in response to the request the bank submits. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided based on the card schemes rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. American Express role is to raise the 
appropriate chargeback and consider whether any filed defence complies with the relevant 
chargeback rules. From what Ive seen, thats what American Express did here. 
There are a number of reasons why a chargeback may be attempted, this one was raised 
under the code for goods or services not received. In this case it would be that Ms B didnt 
feel the taxi company provided her with the service she had paid for using her American 
Express credit card account  namely the service of the taxi taking her from the airport to her 
intended destination. This code is correct in the circumstances of this complaint, so Im 
satisfied American Express correctly identified the problem she was raising. 
After the chargeback process was started, American Express provided Ms B with a 
temporary refund to her account. This is in line with what I would expect American Express 
to do in the circumstances, so Im satisfied that it acted correctly here too. 
However, after American Express raised the chargeback, the merchant bank sent 
information from the taxi company in its defence. This included an email confirming the 
details of the booking sent to Ms B, photos showing the driver went to and waited at the 
airport, parking charges from the airport, and evidence that theyd tried to contact Ms B. As 
such the merchant rejected the chargeback and American Express decided that it did so with 
valid supporting evidence. Having reviewed the evidence, I agree that American Express 
were entitled to conclude that the taxi company had made steps and incurred costs in order 
to provide the service that Ms B had paid for  and it was Ms Bs decision to get the train that 
prevented them from doing so. So I think American Express acted fairly in rejecting this 
complaint. 
I appreciate Ms B wasnt happy that American Express reversed the temporary refund it had 
applied after the response had been provided. However, reversing a refund isnt 
unreasonable in circumstances where a merchant defends a chargeback and provides 
evidence that supports the transaction that is in dispute. 
Based on the evidence I have reviewed I think that American Express acted fairly in 
reversing the refund. I can see that Ms B was warned this may happen if the merchant were 
to send them documentation to support the charge, which they did. And I can see Ms B had 
been informed that American Express intended to re-apply the amount to her account 
balance and the reasons why, which is what I would expect it to do. I think American 
Express have acted fairly and reasonably in response to the chargeback and complaint, and 
as such I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 Katherine Jones
Ombudsman