DRN-1081403
Complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance policy (PPI) when they took out their mortgage in 2007.
Background
Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI at the same time as taking out the mortgage. This policy 
covered them if they were off work because of an accident, sickness or if they lost their jobs. 
It cost around £47.18 monthly and would have paid out the monthly benefit of £782 split 
between Mr and Mrs W. 
Mr W would have received 30% - £234.60 of the benefit and Mrs W 70% - £547.40 of the 
monthly benefit on making a successful claim for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with 
this view and asked that their matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs W were given a fair choice about 
buying the PPI. They say they thought it was mandatory, and they only found out it was 
optional when they raised their complaint. 
I wasnt at the meeting when the policy was sold, so I cant know what was said to Mr and 
Mrs W. But in order to help me decide Ive considered what both parties have told me and 
thought about what we know about these types of sales at the time. Santander has also 
been able to send me copies of some paperwork from the time, so Ive looked carefully at 
this. 
The document headed Your payment care needs and Our recommendations, states Mr and 
Mrs W wouldnt have been able to afford monthly mortgage and related outgoings should 
they be unable to work. So, I think this shows a discussion likely took place and this 
paperwork more likely reflected the conversation they had in which it was recorded there 
was a need for the cover.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer from the time. On the paperwork, section 9 is 
headed Insurance. Its states Insurance you must take out through Abbey. You are not 
required to take out any insurance through Abbey. So, I dont think this wording would have 
led Mr and Mrs W to think they had to take it out in order to secure the mortgage. And Ive 
seen a copy of the Welcome Letter to Mr and Mrs W in May 2007, confirming the cover and telling them about the cost of the PPI being taken by direct debit. I think they likely had to 
complete a separate direct debit mandate for the PPI. The charges for PPI also appeared on 
their statements, so I think they would have likely realised it was separate from their 
mortgage repayments and could have questioned the PPI if they were unsure. I havent seen 
evidence that they did so. Overall, I think they chose the cover for the benefit it gave each of 
them and realised they could have declined the PPI if they didnt want it.
Ive treated this as an advised sale because its a higher test for Santander to satisfy. If 
Mr and Mrs W were advised to buy the cover, Santander had to make sure it was suitable for 
their needs. To help me decide whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs W have told us about 
their personal circumstances at the time. 
I cant say this policy was unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs W were eligible for the cover and as they were both working and didnt have any 
unusual employment circumstances, I dont think they would have been affected by any of 
the main limitations and exclusions in relation to employment which might have made it more 
difficult to make a claim. Mrs W was in good health, so I dont think the terms of this policy 
would have been stopped her from making a successful claim.
Mr W has told us he suffered with a pre-existing medical condition when he bought the 
policy. Ive carefully considered this, and I have looked at the policy terms and conditions in 
relation to medical conditions which can sometimes be a barrier to making a claim. But these 
terms and conditions allowed Mr W to make a claim regardless of any pre-existing medical 
condition after 12 months of cover. So thinking about the PPI covering their mortgage, I still 
think it would have been suitable and could have been useful if Mr W had to have some time 
off work due to ill health.
Mr and Mrs W have told us that they had good sick pay from work. Mrs W had 6 months full 
sick pay followed by a further six months half sick pay from work and Mr W has said he 
would have received six months sick pay. Theyve also told us about savings they had of 
around three months sick pay. This policy would have paid out over and above what they got 
from work and potentially for longer than their full sick pay would have lasted. And any 
savings they had could have been used for other important living expenses, so I still think it 
was suitable and could have been useful if things went wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the cover was unaffordable for them.
Overall, Im satisfied the cover probably was suitable for them. Even so, Santander still had 
to give Mr and Mrs W enough information about the cover so they could decide for 
themselves whether it was right for them. That information had to be clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
I accept its possible that Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs W everything it should have done 
about the cover. But Ive set out above how PPI could have been helpful to them if they 
couldnt work or lost their jobs.
 
I appreciate they dont now remember everything from the time of the sale  which is 
understandable after so long. But I think Mr and Mrs W chose to buy the PPI  so it looks as 
though they wanted this type of cover at the time. With all of this in mind, I dont think more 
or better information about the cover would have put Mr and Mrs W off buying PPI. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld this 
complaint. I dont need to tell Santander to take any further action. 
My final decision  
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman