DRN-3212007
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain  through a representative  about a life assurance policy sold to 
them by Lloyds Bank PLC. They feel the product should have been separated into a life 
assurance policy and a savings product, rather than the two being linked. 
What happened
In response to this complaint, Lloyds felt information provided when the policy was sold 
made clear how it would work. They also noted that details about the value of the investment 
side of it had been given to financial advisers working for Mr and Mrs H in 2007 and 2008. 
So Lloyds felt they didnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to us. Their view is that the product would have been 
simpler and more transparent if it had been two separate products. 
Lloyds Bank PLC consented to us putting our time limits aside to consider this complaint. 
Our investigator looked at it, but found the life policys terms were fairly standard for this type 
of product. And he felt enough had been done to make its details clear to Mr and Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept that view, so the case has come to me for a formal decision. 
Our investigator looked at another complaint that had been brought to us, about contact with 
a company that administers the ongoing policy. Ive written to Mr and Mrs Hs representative 
to explain I wont be making a decision about that complaint here. My decision is only 
looking at the complaints that Lloyds Bank PLC are responsible for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts about this product are agreed by both sides. Its a life assurance policy that 
included an investment element to it.
As our investigator noted, thats not too unusual. The idea behind these products is to plan 
for rises in the cost of life assurance. Rises can happen because  statistically  a claim is 
more likely the older someone gets. 
The investment part of the product is essentially trying to build a pot of money to use later 
on, when life cover is more expensive. In this way, the policy holder will be protected from 
the premium  which has to pay for that life cover  rising sharply at that point. 
That does mean the premium in the early years is perhaps higher than it would be, if all you 
were buying was the life cover. But the extra bit serves the purpose Ive mentioned above. 
So its reasonable to suggest this sort of product as suitable for someone whos looking to 
make a long-term commitment to having life cover. 
The documents Ive seen from 1993 all show this is how the product was being sold to Mr 
and Mrs H. Its referred to as unit-linked, which indicates theres an investment element to 
it. And Mr and Mrs H have been able  through their financial advisers  to receive details 
about the value thats built up in the investment side of the policy. 
At no point can I see this was sold to Mr and Mrs H purely as a short-term life assurance 
product without the investment element. I cant see anything Lloyds did here could have 
given them that impression. So if theyd wanted separate savings and life cover, it would 
have been clear that this wasnt the product for them. 
So although I note Mr and Mrs Hs comment that things might have been clearer if theyd 
had two separate products, I cant see that makes this product unsuitable. It had a valid 
purpose, and Lloyds dont look to have misrepresented what that was. I find they sold the 
product to Mr and Mrs H fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman