DRN-3107475
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs B have complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited mis-handled a claim made 
on their car insurance policy.  
What happened
In 2018 Mr F, a named driver on Mrs Bs car insurance policy, was involved in a collision 
with another vehicle. The incident was reported to Tesco who investigated by obtaining, 
among other things, information from Mr F and an engineers report.  
Based on the information, and the advice of its appointed solicitor, Tesco attempted to settle 
the claim on a 50/50 basis. The driver of the vehicle (the third party) rejected the offer and 
Tesco ultimately increased its offer, again on the advice of the solicitor, to around £4,700. 
The third party accepted the offer.
Believing that Tesco had mis-handled the claim and hadnt acted in their interests, Mr F and 
Mrs B complained to Tesco. They said Tesco hadnt acted on the evidence theyd provided 
from a witness which, they believed, showed Mr F wasnt at fault for the accident.
Tesco confirmed that it believed it had dealt with the claim correctly. It said it had settled the 
claim without admission of liability on Mr Fs part and not on the basis that he was at fault. 
Tesco said it took into account the witness evidence but that it had taken the advice of the 
solicitors to settle the claim. It said, as a result, Mr F was free to pursue a personal injury 
claim. 
Unhappy, Mr F and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. Among other things, they said one 
of Tescos representatives had been rude to them and unprofessional  they questioned 
whether theyd been discriminated against because of their ethnicity. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. They 
felt that, although the representative could have handled things better, this hadnt damaged 
their claim and there was no evidence of discrimination. The investigator believed, overall, 
that Tesco had settled the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions and had acted 
fairly. 
Mr F and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings and said they hadnt answered 
the questions theyd raised. Among other things, they said the appointed solicitor had mis-
handled the claim and failed to properly defend them. The complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh. 
I considered the complaint and issued my provisional decision in September 2021. In it, I 
explained why I intended to uphold the complaint in part. Essentially, I also thought Tesco 
had settled the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. But I believed Tesco should pay 
Mr F and Mrs B £150 as compensation for the way in which it  and one of its staff in 
particular  had handled their claim and complaint.
I gave the parties the chance to respond before I reconsidered the complaint. Tesco said it 
didnt have anything to add.
Mr F and Mrs B said they agreed with some of my findings but not others. In summary, they 
said Tesco initially wanted to accept liability for the incident. They went into some detail 
about the incident itself, among other things providing images and copy witness statements, 
to explain why they felt Mr F wasnt responsible for it. Regarding compensation, Mr F and 
Mrs B thought they should be awarded more than £150 given the distress theyd suffered as 
a result of the customer service theyd received, which they found to be extremely poor and 
unprofessional.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focussed on the key issues I think I need to address to decide the case. So, although 
Ive considered everything thats been said, including everything that Mr F and Mrs B have 
provided in response to my provisional decision, I wont necessarily answer every point the 
parties have made. 
Id like to thank Mr F and Mrs B for the clarity of their response to my provisional decision. 
However, the bulk of what they came back with addressed who they felt was responsible for 
the incident. As I said in my previous decision, its not for me to decide liability as thats the 
role of the courts. Rather my focus has been on whether Tesco  as the insurer  reached 
its decision reasonably and in line with the policy terms and on how it treated Mr F and 
Mrs B. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
The claim and the implications for Mr F and Mrs B
Its accepted that Mr F was involved in a road traffic accident involving a third party that 
resulted in a claim. I note the policy terms and conditions say that, in dealing with any claim, 
Tesco may:
carry out the defence or settlement of any claim and choose the solicitor who 
will act for you in any legal action; and
take any legal action in your name or the name of any other person covered 
by this policy.   
We can do any of these in your name or in the name of any person claiming 
under this policy.

 when supported by independent legal advice, form the view that you do not 
have a more than 50% chance of winning the case and achieving a positive 
outcome. If so, we may decline support or any further support. 
Terms like these are commonly found in motor insurance policies Ive seen. The terms gave 
Tesco quite a wide discretion in how to handle the claim. 
Ive looked carefully at whether Tesco exercised that discretion fairly in this case. In doing 
that, Ive considered the evidence Tesco relied on in settling the claim. For example, I can 
see that Tesco had conflicting reports as to what happened from both Mr F and the third party. Tesco also relied on a report from an engineer that assessed the damage to Mr F and 
Mrs Bs car and provided a breakdown of the repair costs. It also considered comments 
made by Mr F and Mrs Bs witness. 
I note that Tesco also relied on the advice of the solicitor it appointed once the claim was 
made. 
The evidence shows the solicitor had concerns as to the prospects of success of any claim 
made against Mr F and advised Tesco to settle on a 50/50 basis. When the third party 
rejected that offer, the solicitor advised Tesco to settle on terms that were more favourable 
to the third party. In doing so, Im satisfied that it settled the claim without any admission of 
liability on Mr Fs part. Tesco didnt admit to any fault on his behalf from what Ive seen.
As a qualified legal expert, I the solicitors opinion was one Tesco was entitled to rely on as 
to Mr Fs liability and his prospects of success should the case go to court.
Mr F and Mrs B have repeatedly complained that the solicitor Tesco appointed mis-handled 
the claim and that their actions prejudiced Mr Fs separate personal injury claim against the 
third party. They criticised the solicitor again in replying to my provisional decision. Id 
reiterate that while we have powers to consider complaints about regulated financial 
businesses  including Tesco  we cant look at complaints about solicitors or the advice 
they give. Should Mr F and Mrs B wish to pursue a complaint about the solicitor I can only 
repeat my previous suggestion that they contact the relevant ombudsman service for more 
help. 
Id like to reassure Mr B and Mrs F that, in reaching these findings, Ive thought very carefully 
about everything theyve said and that includes their recent emails. 
Customer service and Mr F and Mrs Bs allegation of discrimination
Mr F and Mrs B complained not only about the outcome of the claim but also about how 
Tesco treated them. Theyve mentioned one Tesco representative in particular and Ive 
listened very carefully to the calls Mr F and Mrs B had with them.
Mr F and Mrs B also say they feel Tesco has discriminated against them on the basis of their 
ethnicity, for example, by ignoring the evidence provided by their witness. I understand how 
strongly they feel but thats a serious allegation and, having considered the evidence, I dont 
think Tesco has done so. Nor do I think Tesco has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this 
regard. I believe Tesco properly considered the witness evidence but decided not to place 
emphasis on it for legitimate reasons, including that the witness didnt see the accident itself, 
only some of what happened afterwards. This was supported by the solicitors opinion.  
Having said that, I think Tescos representative could have handled things differently. During 
the call of 22 November 2018, I believe the representative used inflammatory language and 
was generally argumentative and adversarial in their tone with Mr B. For example, the 
representative asked that Mr B Be honest, despite there being no indication up to that time 
that he hadnt been. The representative stated, apparently as a matter of fact, that a judge 
would believe the third partys version of events over Mr Bs and that if hed waited until the 
third party had completed their manoeuvre the accident would never have happened. I dont 
think the representative was placed to make such sweeping statements.
The representative continued to use an accusatory tone in the call of January 2019 when 
they repeatedly said the witness Mr F and Mrs B had provided wasnt independent and so 
couldnt be relied upon. When Mr B became upset and said he wanted to complain about 
Tesco and the representative personally, the representative went on to effectively tell Mr B that there was little point in doing so because the complaint would only come back to the 
representative to deal with themselves. 
Ive little doubt that the representatives unprofessional manner, which persisted over the 
course of around a year and in several calls, caused both Mr F and Mrs B a degree of 
frustration and upset. And that this happened during what was known by Tesco, and the 
representative, to be a difficult time for them.
When the nature of these conversations was brought to Tescos attention, it simply 
acknowledged that both parties had become heated and confirmed that it didnt wish to 
treat its customers that way. It recognised its representative hadnt remained calm and 
professional at all times and said it would feed that back to them. Tesco failed to offer Mr F 
and Mrs B any compensation or, more surprisingly, even apologise for these actions.
Mr F and Mrs B appear to accept my findings on this aspect of the complaint to some degree 
at least. Where their views differ is when it comes to the level of compensation that fairly 
reflects their loss. I recommended that Tesco pays them £150 but they feel more is 
warranted, for example referring to poor customer service and a lack of professionalism 
against a backdrop of them already being in a difficult and stressful situation.
Recommending and awarding compensation for non-financial loss is often challenging 
because, at the heart of whats being decided, is fundamentally a subjective matter. 
Obviously, I cant know for certain how Mr B and Mrs F felt on being treated as they had 
been. But Ive considered very closely what theyve told us about this aspect. 
Having done so, Im satisfied that Id already taken account of the factors Mr F and Mrs B 
mention in making my provisional award. And I still think £150 represents a fair and 
reasonable amount in the circumstances.  
Putting things right
Overall, I believe Tesco should pay Mr F and Mrs B £150 as compensation for the way it 
treated them during the claim and for its inadequate response to the concerns they raised 
about its representative.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to put things right as explained above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman