DRN-3581505
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Paratus AMC Limited trading as Foundation Home 
Loans wont offer it a new fixed rate on an existing buy to let mortgage, and wont offer a 
new mortgage either. M therefore complains that it is trapped on an unfairly high interest 
rate.
What happened
M is a property investment company and a micro-enterprise. It took a mortgage with 
Foundation secured over a rental property. The mortgage began in 2018 and was on a two 
year fixed rate to start with, followed by a variable rate from January 2020.
In 2020, Ms mortgage broker applied to Foundation for a new rate. Foundation said it didnt 
offer new rates on existing mortgages. Ms options were therefore either to remain on the 
reversion rate, move to another lender  or apply to Foundation for a new mortgage to 
replace this one.
However, Foundation would not agree to a new mortgage application either. Since the 
original mortgage had been taken out, further information about the property had come to 
light. Following an investigation of its external wall systems and the completion of an EWS1 
form on behalf of the building owner, it had come to light that the building was potentially 
affected by issues with combustible cladding. The EWS1 rated the building as category B2, 
and Foundation said it was only prepared to lend on buildings with an A or B1 rating. 
Therefore Foundation was not able to offer M a new mortgage secured over this property. 
And for the same reasons, it was difficult for M to move the mortgage to a new lender. So 
the mortgage moved to the reversion rate, increasing the monthly payments. 
M complained. It said it wasnt fair that Foundation wouldnt offer a new interest rate, forcing 
it on to the higher reversion rate. M said it would be fair for Foundation to either continue the 
existing fixed rate, or offer a new one, until the cladding situation was resolved and it could 
move the mortgage elsewhere.
Foundation said it didnt offer new rates to existing customers. The mortgage was operating 
as it should in moving to the reversion rate at the end of the fixed rate period. It couldnt offer 
M a new mortgage now that the cladding issue had come to light, as it didnt offer mortgages 
on B2 properties as it considered they presented too much lending risk  especially where, 
as here, the required remedial work had not yet been carried out.
Our investigator didnt think Foundation had acted unfairly, so M asked for an ombudsman to 
decide the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When M took the mortgage out in 2018, it was on a fixed rate of 3.19% until January 2020, 
reverting to a variable rate of 4.5% above LIBOR from then on.
Foundation does not offer new interest rates to any of its customers. Not all lenders do offer 
new rates to existing customers. Ms director says that he has other properties where other 
banks have offered new interest rates, and indeed many lenders do this  but not all do, 
including Foundation.
Theres nothing in the mortgage offer that says M will be entitled to a new rate at the end of 
the fixed rate. The mortgage offer says that the mortgage will move to the variable rate, as 
indeed it has done  so the mortgage is operating in line with the terms and conditions.
As I say, many lenders do offer new rates to existing customers. But theres no rule that 
requires them to do so  its a decision for each lender to make as to what its business 
model is. And as this is an unregulated buy to let mortgage, the rules of mortgage regulation 
dont apply anyway.
So theres nothing unfair in Foundation having decided not to offer new rates to existing 
customers. And M is being treated the same as all other Foundation buy to let customers  
who also would not be offered a new rate on their existing mortgage when their initial fixed 
rate comes to an end.
Theres a particular difficulty in Ms case though  so Ive also thought about whether these 
specific circumstances change whether Foundation has acted fairly here.
As I say, other existing customers would also not be offered a new rate, and therefore would 
have to move to another lender or take out a new mortgage with Foundation to avoid staying 
on the reversion rate. But while that means Foundation is treating M the same as all other 
customers, the effect is that M cannot take a new rate at all. The unremediated cladding 
means that Foundation is not willing to offer M a new mortgage, and the same would be true 
of other lenders. Therefore M has no choice but to remain on the reversion rate, at least until 
the remediation is carried out.
I can understand why Ms director finds this frustrating, and feels that its meant that M is 
paying an unfairly high mortgage interest rate.
But Im afraid I dont think it means Foundation has acted unfairly, or needs to take different 
steps to what it usually would.
Since this mortgage was taken out in early 2018, there is much more awareness of the 
issues potentially combustible cladding can cause. Where  as here  an independent 
EWS1 finds that the property presents a risk until remediation happens, that means the 
property is not suitable security for a mortgage. And therefore Foundation will not offer M a 
new mortgage to replace this one.
I think thats a reasonable position to take. If it were to offer a new mortgage, with new 
funding, Foundation is entitled to have regard to its current lending criteria, and to decide 
that this is not a property it wants to lend on.
Ms director is right, of course, that Foundation already has the security of this property, and 
is therefore on risk already. But the fact is that while the physical condition of the building 
hasnt changed  knowledge about that condition has. Foundation didnt know about the 
existence of the potentially combustible cladding in 2018, but it does now. 
So Foundation now knows that  until remediated, anyway  this property does not represent adequate security for its mortgage and its not prepared to fund a new mortgage 
on it. But, even though it now knows the property is not, for now, an acceptable risk, it is 
allowing the existing mortgage to continue and not requiring M to repay it.
I think thats fair. And what it means is that the existing mortgage will continue on the existing 
terms and conditions  including the interest rate terms, which means the mortgage is now 
on the variable rate. 
I dont think Foundation needs to offer M a special new interest rate  that it doesnt offer to 
other customers  because of these circumstances. Nor does it need to extend the old fixed 
rate beyond its expiry in January 2020.
Its unfortunate that M finds itself in this position. But that position is because of the cladding 
on the building  which Foundation is not responsible for. M bought this property as an 
investment for profit, and investment in property always carries risks. Sadly in this case, 
some of that risk has come to pass and the property is not as good an investment as M 
hoped. But that doesnt, in my view, mean that Foundation has to take some of the 
consequences of that risk away from M by agreeing to reduce the interest rate on the 
mortgage. 
If Foundation did offer new rates to existing customers, and withheld one from M because of 
the cladding, I might think differently. But thats not the case here  it doesnt offer rates to 
any customers. M is not being treated less favourably than other customers, and theres no 
obligation on Foundation to treat it more favourably by offering a rate it wouldnt offer any 
other buy to let customer.
The mortgage continues to operate in line with the terms and conditions, as Foundation 
agreed it would when it was taken out in 2018. Circumstances have changed since then, but 
not because of anything Foundation has done. Foundation has said that once the cladding 
remediation is completed it will be willing to reconsider whether to offer a new mortgage 
secured on this property. I think thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I 
dont ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman