DRN-3924329
The complaint
Mrs D has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Mrs D has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva.
She made a claim which Aviva declined as it said Mrs Ds policy didnt provide cover for 
chronic conditions. 
Mrs D complained to Aviva and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly as it had 
applied the policy terms correctly. 
Mrs D disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
The policy covers acute flare ups of chronic conditions.
She has been cured of her pain following the procedure which Aviva declined.
Her consultant has written a supportive letter confirming her symptoms have resolved 
and so her claim should be covered. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms exclude chronic conditions and define a chronic condition as follows:
A disease, illness or injury which has one or more of the following characteristic:-
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups, and/or tests
It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
It requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
It continues indefinitely 
It has no known cure 
It comes back or is likely to come back.
The policy covers acute flare-ups of chronic conditions and says:
But we do cover unexpected acute flare-ups of a chronic condition until the insured 
persons condition is re-stabilised.
Mrs D says her condition has been cured - and the second procedure in 2022 resolved her 
symptoms. She says the treatment should therefore be covered. 
But in August 2020, Aviva told Mrs D it would only cover management of her back pain for 
six months and the only benefit on the policy would be for surgical management to cure her 
underlying problem. It said any further pain management would be considered chronic and 
not covered under the terms of the policy. 
Ive reviewed the medical evidence provided, which Ive summarised below. The policy 
doesnt provide treatment for chronic conditions. But it does cover unexpected acute flare 
ups. In order to be eligible for benefit, Mrs D has to show that she had an unexpected acute 
flare up of her back pain.
The key medical evidence
13 May 2022  Mrs Ds treating consultant writes to confirm shed had lower back 
pain again. In the previous year, shed had a denervation procedure and had 
responded well to injections in the past. The pain was similar to before and she was 
keen to revisit further denervations. The response last time was reasonably good and 
long lasting so it was appropriate to consider it again.
19 August 2022  the treating consultant wrote a letter to confirm Mrs D had further 
denervations. She was doing well and the severe pain she had was much better. 
9 January 2023  a further letter from the treating consultant says hed followed NICE 
guidance. Mrs D had had a procedure in 2020 with an excellent response but over a 
few months, her symptoms had regressed. Mrs D had denervation with a remarkable 
response and an almost complete resolution of symptoms. He said the treatment had 
given her a resolution of symptoms and returned her to a state of health she was 
immediately in before suffering from it. 
Aviva said the second denervation will again only provide a limited term of relief. So 
although the specialist is following NICE guidelines and provided appropriate 
treatment for Mrs Ds back pain, the treatment isnt covered under the terms of the 
policy. 
Having considered the above medical evidence and Avivas response, Im satisfied that Mrs 
Ds condition meets Avivas definition of a chronic condition as the medical evidence shows 
that it comes back. 
Im not satisfied that the medical evidence shows that Mrs D suffered from an unexpected 
acute flare up of her chronic condition. The first denervation provided an excellent response 
but over a few months, her symptoms regressed. Im not satisfied that the returning pain was 
an unexpected flare up  Aviva had informed Mrs D in 2020 that any further pain management wouldnt be covered  as further back pain was expected.
I think Aviva made it clear to Mrs D that she would only be covered for surgical intervention 
as the treatment shed had wasnt curing her condition but provided limited relief. 
And so I dont think Aviva unfairly declined the claim for the procedure in 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman