DRN-2577265
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wrongly recorded a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr C explains he was the victim of identity theft in 2014. An account was opened by a 
fraudster in his name with Halifax and used to receive money. He says he explained this at 
the time and that he understood a protective marker was added to CIFAS and he set up a 
password for access to his information at a credit reference agency. He says that in May 
2020 the charity he is involved with applied for a grant. He found that this was refused due to 
a problem with one of the applicants CIFAS records. And when he made a SAR he found 
that Halifax had actually registered a fraud marker, implicating him, in 2014. 
Halifax accepted it made a mistake and apologised and said it should have removed the 
marker in November 2014. It offered to pay Mr C £1,569 in compensation, but he didnt 
accept this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Halifax do more than it had offered to. She said that 
Mr C had explained the impact of the marker on him being able to apply for credit and that 
the borrowing he was able to obtain was at higher interest rates. He said he hadnt been 
able to get a mortgage and a mainstream account for his business. The type of account he 
did have meant he wasnt eligible for another grant. He explained his mental health has been 
affected and that he thought he couldnt obtain credit even though no one would tell him 
why.
She explained that wed only be looking at the impact on Mr C personally and not on his 
separate business or the charity he was involved with. She said she needed to determine if 
the amount he had been offered was reasonable given the impact of the marker for him. 
While Mr C said he didnt get a loan at a lower interest rate it wasnt possible to say he would 
otherwise have done so save for the marker. And she thought it reasonable for him to have 
enquired a bit further when he was declined for credit and a mobile phone contract  even if 
those organisations wouldnt explain this directly. We wouldnt be compensating for loss of 
earnings while Mr C pursued this with Halifax. And she thought that the compensation which 
has now been paid was reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He lost money, was 
embarrassed in front of colleagues and his contract wasnt renewed given the questions that 
had been raised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt the frustration and distress caused to Mr C when he discovered the marker had 
been recorded against his name. Instead of helping to protect him from being the victim of 
fraud again it signalled to any financial business accessing the database that he had been 
reported to have been involved in fraud by Halifax. He explains examples of being turned 
down for credit including a mobile phone contract in Summer 2019 in front of his daughter. 
And of only being able to access payday loans or a loan at an interest rate of 10.5 percent 
per annum when he ought to have been paying three percent at most. Things came to a 
head when the charity he was involved with discovered the issue after it made an application 
for funding. And he had to pay £69 for his business account  the only type available being 
one that also restricted what his business could apply for in funding.
He wants compensation for the extra interest hes paid, loss of six days earnings pursuing 
this and his extreme stress and inconvenience. And a five-figure total payment to the charity 
projects he is involved with to compensate for the loss of funding. He says that it is difficult to 
estimate the impact over the five-year period.
I know I am going to disappoint him when I say that I agree with our investigator that we are 
only going to be able to consider in this complaint the impact on Mr C personally. 
I cant know what would have happened if the marker hadnt been in place. A marker should 
not lead to automatic refusal. Financial businesses must make their own checks and 
decisions which will also take into account other factors. Mr C has indicated his credit score 
seemed good so I do think that following the established fraud in 2014 he might have been 
able to take reasonable steps to help mitigate the impact here when as he says the declines 
he was faced with didnt make sense to him.
He was understandably embarrassed in May 2020 when the marker was discovered during 
a grant application. This marker was removed the following month and Halifax has written to 
him with an apology removing any basis for genuine suspicion from then.
We dont make punitive awards and we publish guidelines around compensation for trouble 
and upset. I dont have sufficient evidence to make an award for specific financial loss. But I 
do take into account my findings about the distress, inconvenience and measure of 
embarrassment and reputational damage caused to him. And the long period over which this 
marker was incorrectly applied. We consider awards of the level already offered by Halifax to 
be in our substantial category and which typically reflect considerable embarrassment, 
upset and inconvenience. We dont generally make awards for time spent and these 
wouldnt be at professional rates. Here I am considering the overall position.
Having done so I find that the amount already offered and now paid to be reasonable and 
not less than I might otherwise have awarded. So, I am afraid I wont be increasing this. I 
know Mr C will remain disappointed with my conclusions.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax need do no more than it has already done, and which was to pay Mr C 
£1,569.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman