DRN-3549187
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) hasnt paid a fair 
settlement for his claim following damage to his car. 
What happened
Mr Ms car suffered damage when a third-party driver collided with the rear of his car. Mr M 
is unhappy that the settlement paid by Admiral is less than what he feels is the true value of 
his car. He feels the amount paid - £14,150  hasnt adequately taken into account the 
actual prices available on the market.
Admiral has explained that its settlement of Mr Ms claim was based on two widely used 
market trade guides. It says it paid the higher valuation of the two.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. She explained that when considering 
complaints about motor valuations, our service typically finds the valuations provided by the 
motor trade guides to be more persuasive than advertised private sale prices. She 
considered the valuations completed by Admiral, and said she was satisfied it had used the 
guides correctly to arrive at its valuation. She also completed her own valuation on a third 
trade guide, which was in line with the valuations completed by Admiral. Based on the 
above, our investigator concluded that the valuation reached by Admiral was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms claim and complaint.
Mr M didnt accept our investigator's opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy document explains how Admiral can settle a claim:
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
pay to repair your car, or
pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. We may reduce the 
settlement, or ask you to contribute towards the repair costs, if the parts 
replaced were already worn or damaged or for audio/visual equipment that 
has been removed from your car
..
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car or 
items claimed for. If your car cannot be repaired economically, we will get it 
moved to a place of storage as soon as possible.
In this case Admiral elected to pay a cash settlement for the market value of Mr Ms car.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and
condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of the term 'market' in
which you would normally shop for your car e g. Retail value, will not apply if you 
bought your car privately or at an auction Non-European manufactured cars will be 
valued based on European import values or the nearest British equivalent.
Our services typical approach when considering complaints about fair market value takes 
into account what three of the market leading motor trade guides say the market value is. 
These guides are Glasss, CAP and Cazoo (formerly Cazana). These guides are used 
across the motor industry when valuing second-hand cars. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. Were 
confident these guides give a good reflection of the true market value of a car.
 
Admiral ran valuations for Mr Ms car using two of the three guides our service typically relies 
on. Im satisfied that the valuations are based on the correct car, date of loss and mileage. 
The valuations Admiral obtained were:
Glasss - £14,108
CAP - £14,150
Admiral paid the higher of the two valuations to settle Mr Ms claim.
Mr M has provided numerous sales adverts for similar cars, with advertised prices ranging 
from around £18,000 to £21,000. He says he is unable to source a suitable replacement with 
the amount paid by Admiral.
I should point out, as our investigator did, that our service typically finds the motor trade 
guides to be more persuasive than sales adverts. This is because advertised prices are 
often the starting point of a negotiation and are what the seller would like to achieve, rather 
than the final price the car actually sells for. Its also particularly important to note in this case 
that the majority of car adverts provided by Mr M were for cars with significantly lower 
mileage than Mr Ms, which is likely to have an impact on the asking price.
As Admiral reached its valuation based on only two of the guides, our investigator ran a 
valuation using the third guide  Cazoo. This initially came out at £14,055  but the incorrect 
incident date and mileage had been used when obtaining the valuation. The investigator re-
ran the valuation with the correct information and the valuation returned by Cazoo was  
£14,442.
So, based on the motor trade guides, the market value of Mr Ms car, at the time of loss, 
would be between £14,108 and £14,442. Admiral paid Mr M £14,150 to settle his claim. This 
means the amount paid by Admiral is within the range of valuations provided by the three 
trade guides. And as all three, separate, guides returned broadly similar valuations, I think 
its reasonable to conclude that a valuation within that range is likely to be accurate.Ive thought about the fact that the third valuation is slightly higher than the two completed by 
Admiral. However, the difference between all three valuations is small in comparison to the 
total valuation amount. And the amount paid by Admiral is still within the range of the three 
valuations returned  between the highest and the lowest. So, while the amount paid by 
Admiral is slightly lower than the average of the three valuations returned by the guides, Im 
satisfied that its in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy and is fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
It follows that I wont be directing Admiral to take any further action in relation to Mr Ms 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I dont uphold Mr M's complaint against Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman