DRN-3294466
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) charged her 
interest when she missed a payment even though she had asked them to extend her buy 
now pay later term.  
What happened
Miss B ordered a television from a store in November 2020 under a buy now pay later 
(BNPL) arrangement. Miss B says when she placed the order the agent told her she could 
extend the BNPL term from 9 months to 12 months. Miss B says she contacted Shop Direct 
to extend the BNPL term to 12 months but in September 2021 she was charged interest for 
not paying off the cash price for the television after 9 months. So, Miss B complained. 
Shop Direct responded and explained Miss B had purchased her television for £229 in 
November 2020 and applied a 9 month BNPL term. They said they had checked the 
minimum order value for 12-month BNPLs and this is showing as £300 and has remained 
this amount since June 2020 therefore the item purchased by Miss B was only ever eligible 
for a 9 month term. They said Customer Services wouldnt have been able to transfer this to 
a 12-month term. Shop Direct said the cash price, interest and due date have been noted on 
every statement since the item was purchased. And, as the cash price for the item wasnt 
received in line with the BNPL term, the interest was correctly applied.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. He thought Shop Direct hadnt acted unfairly 
in charging interest and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Shop Direct have provided a screenshot from their website which says the BNPL scheme is 
an interest bearing option that allows you to delay payments on your purchases for up to 
12 months. Theres a breakdown showing the BNPL terms available for different purchase 
amounts. It shows a 9-month term is available for purchases of £150 and 12 months for 
purchases of £300. 
Shop Direct have also provided screenshots of the sale journey for the television bought by 
Miss B and this has a box which is headed Buy Now Pay Later and under a sub-heading 
How to avoid paying interest? it says, You can avoid all of the interest by paying the cash 
price before the end of the delayed payment period, this can be done in one full payment or 
multiple partial payments. The credit agreement signed by Miss B says its for running 
account credit to be used for the purchase of goods. It says the BNPL transaction will be 
charged to Miss Bs account on the first statement for which the payment due date occurs 
after the end of the deferred period. The agreement goes further to say If the BNPL 
Transaction is not repaid in full by the first payment due date after the end of the deferred 
period the accrued interest will be charged to your account.    
I understand Miss B says she made a call to Shop Direct shortly after purchasing the 
television to ask for the BNPL term to be extended to 12 months. Miss B says Shop Direct 
confirmed this had been extended to 12 months. I can see Shop Direct have carried out a 
search of their systems using Miss Bs mobile number and landline but theres no record of 
this call. Shop Direct have also asked Miss B to provide details of any other telephone 
numbers she mightve used to make this call  but she hasnt provided any other numbers. 
In addition to this, I can see from case notes provided by Shop Direct, the monthly 
statements sent to Miss B set out the balance of £229 on this BNPL arrangement as well as 
the due date of 6 September 2021. The statements also say You can avoid the interest on 
these Buy Now Pay Later item(s)by paying the balance by 06 Sep 2021. So, I think the 
statements support Shop Directs account that an extension hadnt been agreed as the due 
date remained the same. And, I think the statements wouldve indicated to Miss B that the 
term hadnt been extended. I understand Miss B told Shop Direct she didnt receive the 
paper statements but the information Shop Direct have provided shows they hold the correct 
address. So, I cant hold Shop Direct responsible if these havent been received.  
Shop Direct say that, even if a call had been made, they wouldnt have been able to extend 
the BNPL term as the purchase price of the television wouldnt make it eligible for a term of 
12-months. The information provided by Shop Direct supports this as the BNPL criteria 
shows Miss Bs purchase didnt meet the required payment amount to be eligible for a 12 
month term. And, nothing Ive seen in the information provided suggests that Shop Direct are 
able to extend a term to 12 months where the purchase price is less than £300. 
I am sorry to hear about the impact this has had on Miss B and I note shes firm in her view 
that Shop Direct lied to her by saying the term had been extended. But, the information Ive 
seen doesnt support this so I cant say Shop Direct have acted unfairly in applying interest.    
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman