DRN-3248077
The complaint
Ms P complains that she has been a victim of fraud. She says her ex-husband took out a 
joint mortgage in both their names with Optimum Credit Limited, secured against the 
property they jointly owned, fraudulently and without her knowledge. 
What happened
In December 2017, through a broker, an application was made to Optimum in the names of 
Ms P and her ex-husband for a second charge loan of £50,000. In April 2018, a loan of 
£42,500, plus fees, was approved and drawn down. The loan was in Ms Ps and her ex-
husbands joint names, and most of the money was used to repay debts in Ms Ps ex-
husbands sole name. 
In 2019, Ms P and her ex-husband began the process of divorcing. Ms P says it was only 
then that she found out about the existence of the loan. She made some enquiries of 
Optimum and, having looked at the information it gave her, she said it wasnt her signature 
on the loan application, and someone had pretended to be her during the application call 
with Optimum.
Ms P complained. She said she hadnt received any of the money from the loan, she had 
known nothing about it, and she shouldnt be liable for it.
In early 2020, the mortgaged property was sold. Both the main mortgage (with another 
lender) and the second charge loan with Optimum were repaid in full. 
Optimum initially said it couldnt help Ms P. It later said that had been a mistake, apologised, 
and went on to investigate. It concluded that it couldnt be certain Ms P had been a victim of 
fraud. It said it would however co-operate with any legal action Ms P might take against her 
ex-husband, and suggested Ms P consider asking Cifas, a fraud prevention agency, about 
protective registration.
Ms P got in touch with us. Our investigator found that Ms P had known about the Optimum 
loan when she went through mediation as part of her divorce  so the loan should have been 
taken into account in the divorce settlement. She didnt recommend that Optimum pay Ms P 
any compensation. 
Ms P didnt accept that conclusion and asked for a review. She felt that the fraud itself hadnt 
been addressed and that Optimum hadnt carried out proper checks when it granted the 
loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I think its important to be clear that its not for me to say that Ms Ps ex-husband 
committed fraud. He isnt party to this complaint, so I dont know his side of the story, and in 
any event hes not covered by the rules of the Financial Ombudsman. What I can consider is 
Optimums part in this matter, what checks it did before granting the loan, and whether it 
should pay Ms P compensation or take other appropriate steps to settle this complaint.
This loan was sold through a broker. This meant that Optimum, as the lender, had very little 
direct contact with the applicants. It was the broker who was in touch with the applicants and 
who was responsible for confirming their identity and gathering various information. Optimum 
was entitled to rely on what the broker told it, and it has said that there was nothing in this 
loan application which gave it cause for concern.
Ive looked carefully at Optimums records. They show that Optimum asked for  and 
received  a number of documents before it agreed the loan. Those included identity 
documents, payslips, statements and bills in Ms Ps name. It carried out various other 
checks as well, and made a call to someone who it understood was Ms P in order to check 
she understood the loan she was taking, and who was able to provide Ms Ps personal 
information without hesitation.
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Optimum failed to carry out reasonable and 
appropriate checks before lending. I also see no particular reason why it should have been 
alerted to the possibility that this might be a fraudulent application. 
Ive also considered what Optimum did after Ms P told it what had happened, and Im 
satisfied that it investigated the matter. As part of its investigation it instructed an 
independent forensic expert to examine signatures; it also reviewed the phone call made 
during the application to the person it thought was Ms P.
Its unfortunate that the outcome of Optimums investigation was inconclusive  but that is 
not the same as saying Ms P hasnt been a victim of fraud as she has described.
Importantly, though, even if Ms P did have nothing to do with the loan  which may well be 
the case  then Optimum would still have had a charge over the jointly owned property to 
recover the debt. And Ms P knew about the loan when she went through mediation with her 
ex-husband in the lead-up to their divorce, and before the property was sold. She says the 
mediator knew about the loan as well, and I can see thats clear in the statement of outcome 
of the mediation. 
The outcome of mediation was that Ms P would get all of the proceeds of the sale of the 
mortgaged property  around £42,000  once both the main mortgage and the Optimum 
secured loan had been settled. The loan was taken into account when Ms P and her ex-
husband came to that agreement, as set out in the mediators statement: Both are aware 
that other options for dividing the equity can be considered, but both feel that this is a 
reflection of what they feel to be fair based on what each had put into the property the loans 
taken out against the property.  
I note Ms Ps point that Optimums investigation was ongoing when she was mediating with 
her ex-husband, and that she hasnt been able to contact her ex-husband in order to finalise 
the divorce. Nonetheless, I think the loan formed part of their intended financial settlement. 
Putting this another way, the payment Optimum received to settle the loan on the sale of the 
property may effectively be considered to have come from Ms Ps ex-husbands interest in 
the property, rather than from Ms Ps. Were that not the case, and Ms P felt she were being 
asked to contribute towards paying off a loan she had nothing to do with, then I think it was 
for her to raise at the time during settlement negotiations with her ex-husband. 
Against this background, and in all the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for me 
now to require Optimum to reimburse Ms P for the money it received to settle the loan. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman