DRN-1498373
The complaint
Mr P complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold him a life and critical illness policy.
What happened
In 1989 Mr P was advised to set up a living assurance policy by a firm that Phoenix Life has 
since acquired liability for. The policy provided life and critical illness cover with a sum 
assured of about £21,000.
The sum assured was increased in 1996 to about £43,000 but subsequently reduced to 
about £32,000 and then £16,000 in 1999 and 2004 respectively. The premiums for Mr Ps 
policy were also paid for by the Waiver of Premium benefit from December 1997 to 
November 1998 and May 2002 to March 2005.
Mr P complained to Phoenix Life in July 2019. He said the policy was aggressively sold to 
him by the adviser as she told him he had to have it as hed already taken out a pension 
plan. He explained the policy was to be used to pay in to his pension plan if anything 
happened to him but, as he was young at the time it was sold, he didnt understand what he 
was taking out. He also added that he was aware the adviser left the firm under a very dark 
cloud due to her sales tactics.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. They said they couldnt comment on why the 
adviser left but confirmed that aggressive sales tactics were neither encouraged or 
accepted. They explained the paperwork completed at the time of sale shows Mr P wanted 
critical illness cover. And that in the event of a claim the sum assured applicable to the policy 
at that time wouldve been paid as a lump sum. They were satisfied there was a need for the 
cover and that this was supported by Mr P increasing the sum assured in 1996, as well as 
no concerns being raised about the suitability of the policy while payment was being made 
by the Waiver of Premium benefit. 
The matter was referred to our service. Our investigator looked in to it but she didnt think the 
policy was mis-sold. She noted Mr Ps comments about the advisers sales tactics but 
explained that, as she wasnt present, she couldnt be certain what was discussed when the 
policy was sold. And it seemed to her that Mr P had some understanding of the policy as 
hed change the sum assured on three occasions as well as claiming on the waiver of 
premium benefit twice. So she thought if Mr P had concerns about the policy or how it was 
sold then he couldve cancelled it sooner, rather than changing the level of cover and 
claiming on the waiver of premium.
Mr P disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I go on to explain what Ive decided, Id like to clarify that Im only considering the 
living assurance policy as part of this complaint. And so while Im aware Mr P has made 
reference to his pension policy, Ive not considered that here. If he has any concerns about 
his pension policy then Mr P will have to raise a separate complaint with Phoenix Life before 
our service can consider it.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr P says the advisor aggressively sold the policy to him and that she used unscrupulous 
tactics, particularly aimed at male clients, to obtain his business. He says he was later told 
by another employee that she left the firm under a dark cloud because of this. Ive taken
Mr Ps recollection of what happened in to account. But the sale of the policy was about 31 
years ago and as I wasnt present at the meeting(s) that took place, I cant be confident what 
was or wasnt discussed. 
Due to the time thats since passed there is unfortunately limited documentary evidence 
available and, what there is available isnt clear or easily readable. Ive therefore looked at 
whats happened since the policy was sold.
Mr P changed the sum assured on three occasions. He also claimed the waiver of premium 
benefit twice to ensure the policy remained active. Given how strongly Mr P feels about the 
sale of the policy and the behaviour of the adviser, if he had any concerns about the 
suitability of his policy then, I think its reasonable to have expected him to have raised these 
earlier. And by not doing so, but instead actively managing the policy, it suggests he 
understood how it worked and that he felt it was in best interests to retain it. So although
Mr P says he didnt have experience in finance or pensions at that time, and consequently 
didnt know what he was getting in to, I dont think I can fairly conclude that the policy was 
mis-sold. 
Mr P has also said the policy wasnt needed as he already had existing insurance in place to 
cover him in the event of an accident or sickness  providing benefits for a couple of years. 
But while this existing cover was beneficial to Mr P it was different to the cover the living 
assurance policy provided. The policy wouldve paid out the sum assured as a lump sum in 
the event Mr P suffered a critical illness, or in the event of death. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for this policy to run alongside Mr Ps existing benefits to provide him with 
additional cover.
I realise this outcome will likely come as a disappointment to Mr P but for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman