DRN-3796148
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt give him an additional loan on his mortgage, 
after telling him previously to pay off his credit cards to access the loan.
What happened
Mr D had a mortgage with Santander. Mr D applied for an additional loan on his mortgage 
for home improvements. Santander said that Mr D would have to pay off his credit cards first 
before it could provide the loan. Mr D used his savings to pay off the credit cards, but 
Santander then wouldnt provide the loan. Mr D says that Santander then initially suggested 
that £12,000 would be available, then £4,000 but as the minimum loan was £5,000 in fact no 
money was available. Mr D says that he hasnt any money left but engaged a builder to do 
the work.
Santander offered compensation of £1,000 because of the incorrect information that Mr D 
got. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as Santander 
hadnt committed itself to the loan and it was at Mr Ds own risk that he engaged builders 
before getting a decision on the loan from Santander.
Mr D disagreed saying that although there was no guarantee of additional borrowing, there 
was equally no warning that if he paid off the credit cards that the borrowing would be 
declined. Mr D says that his financial loss is that he will have to pay higher interest to do the 
work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D applied for additional borrowing with Santander for building works to his property. I 
listened to a call on 30 June 2022. Mr D was told that on the present information the 
mortgage he was looking was unaffordable but if his credit cards were paid off the additional 
borrowing would be affordable. Although Mr D was told that if the credit cards were paid off 
that at the time the additional borrowing was affordable, there was no commitment that the 
application was guaranteed if the application was made at a later date.  Mr D said he would 
pay off the credit cards from savings he had of about £70,000 - £80,000. I noted that at that 
stage the amount Mr D intended borrowing was uncertain as he asked for repayment figures 
based on borrowing either £15,000 or £25,000 but was then looking at a fixed interest rate of 
3.1% pa.
Mr D then paid off the credit cards and uploaded the statements showing zero balances and 
had a discussion with HSBC on 1 August. The adviser said that the money Mr D wanted to 
borrow wasnt available with the change in interest rates - the fixed rate had increased to 
4.5% which affected affordability and the retained property costs calculation had increased 
which also affected affordability. The adviser looked at increasing the term and said that 
about £12,500 could be got. The adviser then contacted Mr D again on 3 August when he 
said that it wouldnt extend the term as the repayment part of the mortgage would be 
extended beyond the interest-only part, when the mortgage balance should be repaid, and 
couldnt offer further borrowing as the amount it could lend was below its minimum lend.
 
I can understand Mr Ds frustration when he heard that the application was refused on 1 
August. He had just used his savings to pay off his credit cards. Mr D refers to using all his 
savings which may be incorrect as he appears to have had more savings but even so he 
hadnt wanted to pay off credit cards that were charging zero interest. The reason he did that 
was that the adviser on 30 June had told him that at that time if there were zero balances on 
the credit cards he would pass the affordability test. Mr D paid them off but in the meantime 
things had changed. Interest rates had gone up and retained property costs which would 
have affected Mr Ds affordability calculation had also gone up. 
On 30 June neither of the parties were aware of that and the Santander adviser was telling 
Mr D what the situation would be if he applied on that date with zero balances on the credit 
card. Mr D in that call was looking for some commitment from the Santander adviser that the 
offer would still be on the table later, but that commitment wasnt forthcoming from the 
adviser. So, Mr D paid off his credit cards in the reasonable hope that the loan would be 
available later but without a commitment from Santander that it would. As a person 
experienced in buy to let mortgages Mr D would be aware that a mortgage isnt guaranteed 
until he got the mortgage offer which he didnt in this case and that he was paying off his 
credit cards taking a risk that the loan may not be forthcoming.  
Santander has outlined what factors caused the decision to change including the increased 
interest rate so I consider that those were reasonable grounds that could have led to a 
change in Santanders appetite to take on that borrowing. So, I cant say that Santander did 
anything wrong. I note that Mr Ds hopes were raised that something could be salvaged with 
a change in term in that call of 1 August but there were difficulties with that given the 
structure of the mortgage which were dealt with in the call of 3 August. I note that Santander 
offered and paid compensation to Mr D of £1,000. I consider that fairly compensates him for 
any distress he may have suffered but for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. As Santander fairly declined the application I dont consider it reasonable that it 
compensates Mr D for the extra interest rate he had to pay with another lender to complete 
the work.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman