DRN-3698510
The complaint
Mr W complains that Scottish Widows Limited has failed to fairly calculate the value of his 
pension benefits.
What happened
Mr W held pension savings with Scottish Widows. The rules of his pension plan required him 
to take those pension benefits before he reached his 75th birthday. Scottish Widows had 
previously written to Mr W to make him aware that, unless he made an alternative choice, 
Scottish Widows would automatically purchase an annuity for Mr W on his 75th birthday.
Around a week before his 75th birthday, on 28 February 2022, Mr W got in touch with 
Scottish Widows to discuss his pension savings. He explained to Scottish Widows that he 
would like to arrange for his pension savings to enter a flexible drawdown arrangement. But 
Mr W was told that he would need to discuss his situation with a specialist retirement 
consultant. The first available appointment however was after Mr Ws 75th birthday.
Given that delay Scottish Widows agreed to provide Mr W with an eight-week extension of 
the date at which he needed to decide how he would take his pension benefits. And it told 
him that his pension savings would remain in the same investments until that decision had 
been made.
Mr W spoke with the retirement consultant on 17 March. At that time he was given the 
current value of his pension savings, and quotations for the annuities he could purchase. He 
was told that the annuity rates that had been used were guaranteed for 45 days, but the 
underlying value of his pension savings could fluctuate depending on market changes. Mr W 
accepted one of the quotations and was told the definitive value for his pension savings 
would be determined as at the close of business that day.
Around a week later Mr W called Scottish Widows to cancel his annuity purchase as he had 
identified a better rate from another provider. He asked Scottish Widows to confirm the value 
of his pension savings when hed accepted the annuity quotation so he could pass the 
information onto the other provider. At that point Scottish Widows identified it had provided 
incorrect information to Mr W in the past. He should have been told that the value of his 
pension savings would be frozen at the day before his 75th birthday. That value was 
significantly less than the value Mr W had been quoted when he purchased the annuity.
Mr W complained to Scottish Widows. He said it was clear that his pension savings had 
remained invested past his 75th birthday. So he said it was unreasonable for 
Scottish Widows to not provide the increased value to him. In response Scottish Widows 
agreed that its communication with Mr W had been poor, and the information hed been 
given about the value of his pension savings was incorrect. It paid him £125 for the 
inconvenience hed been caused. But it said that it had acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the pension plan in determining the value of Mr Ws pension savings. So it 
didnt agree it should pay him the higher value.
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. Whilst he accepted that 
the information Scottish Widows had given Mr W had been initially incorrect, he didnt think it 
had caused him any financial loss  he thought that Mr W had received the value of his 
pension benefits that he was entitled to under the terms of the policy. And he thought the 
compensation Scottish Widows had already paid Mr W for the inconvenience hed been 
caused was fair. So he didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.
Mr W didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and by Scottish Widows. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think there is little disagreement that the original terms of Mr Ws pension plan required him 
to take his benefits from the policy before he reached his 75th birthday. But what is at issue 
here is what effect Scottish Widows agreement to provide Mr W with an eight-week 
extension of the deadline for making a decision about taking the pension benefits should 
have.
Certainly it seems that this wasnt something that was made clear to the Scottish Widows 
staff that Mr W first dealt with. On at least two occasions Mr W was told that the value of his 
pension savings would continue to go up or down depending on investment performance. So 
I dont think those conversations gave Mr W any indication that the value of his pension 
savings would be fixed when he reached 75 years of age.
But Im satisfied that taking that approach, and fixing the investment value at the date of 
Mr Ws 75th birthday, isnt an unreasonable application of the relevant terms and conditions. 
Id agree that this particular circumstance isnt covered explicitly in those terms and 
conditions  it seems that Scottish Widows decision to provide the eight-week extension 
was something it offered as a gesture of goodwill rather than something that it was required 
to do.
Section 8.1 of the terms and conditions explain that the latest date of entry for a pension is 
the day before the consumers 75th birthday. They say;
If you attain the day before your 75th birthday, but for any Arrangement we have not 
received a request by then to enter on pension before your 75th birthday, then that 
day will be deemed to be the date of entry on pension for that Arrangement.And then section 8.3 explains what will happen at the date of entry for the pension. It says;
At the date of entry on pension we will cancel all units allocated to the policy in 
respect of the Arrangement and will apply their value, in such proportions as you 
specify, to secure benefits..
And it goes on to further explain what will happen if a decision about how to use those 
benefits had not been taken before the 75th birthday was reached, saying;
However, if the date of entry on pension for the Arrangement is the day before your 
75th birthday and we have not by then received your instructions in accordance with 
provision 8.1, then subject to the Rules and to provision 12 the whole of the value of 
the units will be applied to secure a pension for you unless we agree otherwise.
I think it is reasonable to conclude from those terms that, on reaching age 75, Mr Ws 
pension investments would be sold, and their value at that time made available to him to 
purchase benefits. I dont think that Scottish Widows decision  to allow an eight-week 
extension  reasonably means that part of the terms should be delayed. Instead, I think the 
eight-week extension reasonably applied to the subsequent section relating to the purchase 
of benefits. That section explicitly allows for a degree of discretion to be applied by 
Scottish Widows to the point at which the pension was purchased.
So, on balance, I dont think Scottish Widows has acted unreasonably in setting the value of 
Mr Ws pension benefits to that on the day before his 75th birthday. I think, under the relevant 
terms and conditions that is the amount to which he is entitled.
But I dont think that is the only matter I should consider here. It is equally clear that, despite 
Scottish Widows reasonably setting the value of Mr Ws pension benefits to that on the day 
before his 75th birthday, his pension savings continued to be invested, and appeared to have 
benefitted from some growth. Mr W has said that it is unreasonable for Scottish Widows to 
retain that investment growth, since his pension investments werent actually sold until 
sometime later.
Although there was some time before Scottish Widows actually sold Mr Ws pension 
investments I dont think that meant he was out of the market. It was at Mr Ws request, 
albeit I acknowledge some delay was caused by the availability of the retirement consultant, 
that his pension benefits werent put into payment before his 75th birthday. And had the value 
of the funds dropped in the following weeks, Scottish Widows would have still needed to pay 
the higher value.
Scottish Widows accepts that some of the information it gave to Mr W was incorrect, and in 
particular that it failed to make it clear that the value of his pension investments would 
effectively be frozen at his 75th birthday. And I have no doubts that Mr W would have been 
greatly disappointed to learn that his ultimate pension benefits were lower than he was led to 
believe when he agreed for the annuity to be put into payment. But Im not persuaded that 
incorrect information caused Mr W to lose out. His meeting with the retirement consultant 
took place as soon as it could be arranged. And any subsequent delays in putting the 
pension into payment, and partly caused by transferring the pension benefits to the other 
provider, were due to decisions taken by Mr W himself.
But I think it is right that Scottish Widows has acknowledged the incorrect information it gave 
to Mr W, and apologised for its failings. I think that the payment it has made to Mr W, of 
£125, is reasonable compensation for the inconvenience and loss of expectation that he was 
caused.In summary I think that Scottish Widows has paid Mr W the benefits he was entitled to 
receive under the terms of his pension plan. Although he was inconvenienced by the 
incorrect information he was given I dont think it means that his pension was put into 
payment any later than it should have been, or at a lower value. I think the compensation 
that Scottish Widows has paid to Mr W for his inconvenience is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman