DRN-2894324
The complaint
Miss K complains that TSB Bank plc have closed her current account.  
What happened
Miss K said that TSB had closed her account unfairly, after they alleged that her behaviour in 
the branch had been unacceptable on a number of occasions. She said that she hadnt 
behaved in the manner described and that TSB had failed to retain and provide the evidence 
that would have shown this. 
TSB said that staff members had reported that Miss K had behaved in a threatening and 
abusive manner on multiple occasions so it didnt uphold her complaint.  
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She concluded, in summary, 
that TSB had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions by closing the 
account. 
Miss K didnt agree. She said that the allegations were made by staff members close to a 
colleague who she had complained about previously. She maintained that she had never 
been rude or aggressive in branch. She was unhappy that the CCTV footage that TSB had 
mentioned initially was no longer available. She was also unhappy that the bank had 
previously sent her a letter relating to a previous customer in their response to her. 
A different investigator reviewed the case and reached the same conclusion. She said that 
TSB were entitled to close the account and that she felt they had acted fairly based on the 
evidence provided. She explained that TSB had told us that the CCTV footage had no longer 
been available as it was automatically wiped after 28 days. She also made it clear that TSB 
had paid Miss K £150 for the trouble and upset caused by receiving a letter relating to 
another customer. However, she explained that concerns regarding data breaches in these 
circumstances are not something that this service can consider and signposted Miss K to the 
correct organisation. 
As Miss K remained unhappy, the case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss K that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why. Some of the evidence in 
this case is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made my decision based on 
what I think is more likely to have happened than not. 
The terms and conditions of Miss Ks account say TSB may close the account immediately 
and without notice, if they think a customer is behaving improperly. They explain that this 
includes threatening and abusive behaviour. I have read the statement from a member of the 
branch who was present on the day, as well as Miss Ks recollection of events.
TSB says that Miss Ks behaviour on this occasion and in prior visits, was rude and 
aggressive. They have described some of the actions made and words used, and how it 
made the branch staff feel. 
Miss K says this isnt accurate and has denied ever acting in such a manner in the branch. 
Instead she says that the decision made was in response to a previous complaint she made 
about a member of the branch staff.
I cant be sure what happened. But I think what TSB has described is most likely what 
happened. I say this because another statement from another member of staff has been 
provided to us and they also recollect Miss K behaving in such a way on a previous visit to 
the branch.
Whilst Miss K denies this, I have to base my decision on what I think is more likely and I am 
satisfied from the evidence provided to me that the branch staff did feel this was the case. It 
is important to also note that TSB are able to close an account for any reason, as long as 
they give enough notice. Notice was given in this case and Miss K switched out before it was 
closed, so there was minimal inconvenience to her. . 
Miss K is unhappy as she says that TSB have not provided CCTV evidence which she says 
would have shown she did not behave in the way they have described. The images are 
automatically wiped after 28 days. 
However, I am not satisfied that it would have made any material difference to this case. It 
wouldnt havent any sound and I dont believe it would have shown that Miss K didnt act in 
the way the branch staff have described in their statements.  
Overall, I dont think TSB has done anything wrong and so I cant fairly or reasonably require 
it to reinstate Miss Ks account or pay her any compensation as shed like. 
I know that Miss K will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman