DRN-3848345
The complaint
I, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited wont delete certain information 
collected as part of an application for an account.
What happened
I applied for an account with Starling Bank but wasnt successful. That application included 
it collecting information to verify the identity of its director including a video of him repeating 
a code. I says that Starling Bank doesnt have a basis to retain this and this could present a 
security risk if the information was compromised. 
Starling Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that while complying with data protection 
regulations it was also required to keep details about the application for six years. It referred 
in particular to the requirement under money laundering regulations to keep information 
collected as part of the due diligence process. Starling Bank said that the way it used data 
was set out in its privacy notice.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that Starling Bank 
had explained it had a legal obligation to retain the information. And the right to have 
information erased wasnt an absolute one. As part of the application for I the director 
provided his information and she didnt think that I hadnt consented to this happening. The 
director had the right to make a complaint to the Information Commissioners Office and she 
provided details about how to do so.
I didnt agree. The director provided a copy of extracts of the privacy notice and said that 
this didnt mention biometric data. Starling Bank hadnt established a basis on which this was 
necessary for anti-money laundering measures. A video was akin to a fingerprint or DNA as 
it wouldnt change. And there was a concern that this could be shared with machine learning 
algorithms. This was special category data and proper consent for it being taken was 
missing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a complaint from I which is a separate legal entity. But clearly the director made the 
application on its behalf and provided information. He represents it in this complaint but isnt 
a complainant in his own right. That said I can still have some concerns that he does 
personally about the potential misuse of data and so an impact on the security of I though 
for example him as a director being impersonated. 
Im afraid though as he represented I Starling Bank was entitled to consider that I 
consented to this information being provided. I could have stopped the application if it 
didnt. And also, that anything provided was subject to its privacy agreement. I note in the 
version of that agreement I has referred to that at part 1.12 it sets out the need to process 
special category data (which includes biometric data) in certain situations. And that the 
privacy agreement goes on to explain that it can use information  2.1.4 to ensure that we 
comply with the law and regulations, for regulatory purposes generally as well as to help 
detect or prevent fraud or other crimes, and for tax, legal, reporting and auditing obligations. 
Its also explained to I the relevant regulations here when conducting due diligence. How it 
goes about that due diligence and so complies with its obligations is a matter for it to 
determine.
Im satisfied that it explained it would look at whether it could erase any information and that 
it wrote to I to set out that it wouldnt be doing so.
I dont have a reasonable basis to find that Starling Bank has made a mistake and should 
take any further action. As our investigator has said the director can complain directly to the 
Information Commissioners Office. And I can pursue this matter in court if it doesnt accept 
my assessment subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman