DRN-1697221
The complaint
Mr C complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, didnt treat him fairly when it 
possessed his property.
The property was sold in possession but there was a balance outstanding. Mr C wants 
Halifax to write off this debt.
What happened
Mr C said he lost his job in 2015 or 2016, and then struggled to find work. His mortgage went 
into arrears. 
On 25 June 2016, Mr C spoke to Halifaxs collections team from a branch. They completed a 
full income and expenditure form. Mr C explained he hadnt got a job, and had been using 
savings to pay bills, but theyd now run out. Halifax provided the details for debt charities, 
and gave Mr C two months with a nil payment arrangement. Mr C also told Halifax at this 
point that he and his family had been living elsewhere for a couple of years, and renting out 
the property. As Halifax hadnt been told, this meant an extra 1.5% interest was charged on 
the mortgage. Halifax told Mr C to get back in touch after the two months with a nil payment, 
so they could sort out a Consent to Let questionnaire.
In November, Halifax sent Mr C a Consent to Let questionnaire. There was another phone 
call, and Mr C confirmed that he had unsecured debts of around £45,000. He said he was 
getting help from a debt charity, so Halifax gave Mr C another week to go into a branch to fill 
up a new Income and Expenditure form.
In late November, Mr C said the debt charity hadnt completed the form for him yet. Halifax 
put a 30 day hold on collections chasing, to give him breathing space and time to update the 
Income and Expenditure form, update his address, and apply for Consent to Let.
There were further phone discussions between Mr C and Halifax in January 2017. Mr C said 
he hadnt been able to complete an income and expenditure review. He said his tenants had 
left and as they were paying rent where they were living, he couldnt afford to pay the 
mortgage until he got new tenants. He was thinking of selling the property, or bankruptcy. He 
told Halifax hed had an accident at work and depression, which meant hed had six months 
without working. His wife worked part-time and they had two young children. 
Mr C asked what he should do, about getting new tenants or selling the property. Halifax 
said it couldnt advise hm, but said that if he couldnt clear the arrears, or a large lump sum 
off the arrears, he should talk to Halifaxs solicitors. Halifax gave him the contact details for 
its solicitors, and also a sale of property form, in case Mr C decided to sell the property.
A court hearing took place in February 2017, and the court granted Halifax a possession 
order. Enforcement action started in June, and on 23 June, Mr C rang Halifax and did 
complete an income and expenditure form. But this showed the mortgage wasnt affordable 
on Mr Cs circumstances.
The property was possessed on 25 July 2017. Halifax obtained two independent valuations, 
one for £77,000 and the other for £80,000. The property was marketed at £84,500, and it 
sold for £82,000 in December 2017. The proceeds werent enough to cover Mr Cs mortgage 
and there was a shortfall of £21,101.41. This meant that Mr C still owed Halifax this amount.
Mr C complained to Halifax in summer 2018. He said he hadnt received any documents 
about the possession process, but Halifax replied that it had sent them to the temporary 
address Mr C had provided in November 2016. 
Mr C complained again in early 2019. He said hed been unfairly treated while his account 
had been in arrears, and during the 2017 possession of the property. In its final response 
letter on 4 April 2019, Halifax set out what had happened since Mr Cs mortgage had gone 
into arrears in June 2016. It said that its collections and litigation departments had followed 
normal bank processes and procedures, and hadnt acted unfairly. The correct processes 
had also been followed after possession, in respect of the valuation, marketing and sale. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said Halifax hadnt carried out the 
possession in the correct manner, and hadnt treated him fairly. He said this had affected his 
health and wellbeing.
In summary, in his long and detailed letter to this service, Mr C complained that:
- after agreeing a payment holiday, Halifax had then said it wanted the full arrears of 
£2,855.87 to be paid immediately in full;
- hed suggested adding the arrears to the mortgage, or extending the payment 
holiday, but Halifax hadnt given any further help about his ideas, or suggested any 
ideas for paying the arrears;
- he was being advised by debt charities, who had told him Halifax hadnt followed the 
right procedures. The charities had helped him apply to have the possession 
stopped. But the court had allowed the possession to go ahead; 
- hed asked Halifaxs solicitors whether he had to attend court. He didnt want to take 
time off work, as hed now got a new job, and Halifaxs solicitors had said he didnt 
have to. But Mr C said the debt charities had later told him he should have gone to 
court as it would have looked better. 
- after the possession had taken place, Mr C had been contacted by a debt collection 
agency about the shortfall £21,101.41. He felt theyd treated him rudely and 
aggressively, and were harassing him to pay the outstanding balance, even though 
hed explained his situation; 
- when hed complained to Halifax about the debt collection agency, Halifax had said 
the agency had been trying to get income and expenditure information from Mr C. Mr 
C said he couldnt because he was self-employed and didnt know how much work or 
how much income he would have.
- Mr C said that debt charities had told him that Halifax hadnt followed procedures, 
and he wants the shortfall debt written off.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said that Halifax had asked Mr C to 
complete an income and expenditure form on a number of occasions, but he didnt do so.  
He also said that Halifax didnt do anything wrong by refusing to extend the mortgage term, 
or add the arrears to the loan. The investigator explained that most lenders would only do 
that if there was proof of income, and if it was clear the loan could continue satisfactorily on 
that basis. It would have been irresponsible lending if Halifax had let arrears build up without 
means of repayment. The investigator also thought that the sale had been conducted fairly.
Mr C didnt agree. He said Halifax had acted unfairly, and hadnt offered any help about 
paying the arrears. He said Halifax had insisted on the arrears being paid in full in one 
payment after the end of the payment holiday, even though it hadnt warned him at the start that this would happen. Mr C also said that hed told Halifax he was self-employed, so his 
income was too random to complete an income and expenditure form. Mr C said that if 
Halifax had just let him extend the mortgage, theyd still be receiving the mortgage 
payments. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the evidence that Mr C had been having a difficult time. Hed had employment 
difficulties, and health issues, and he told Halifax that he also had unsecured debts of 
around £45,000. And ultimately, when he did eventually complete the income and 
expenditure form in June 2017, this showed that the mortgage wasnt affordable. So I 
sympathise with Mr Cs situation. But my job is to consider whether Halifax acted fairly 
towards him.
Halifaxs actions before possession
Mr C believes Halifax acted unfairly by telling him that, at the end of the payment holiday, 
hed have to pay the £2,855.87 arrears immediately and in full. He said he hadnt been 
warned this would happen.
Ive looked at the records of what happened. There was a nil payment arrangement for two 
months in June 2016, and collections actions were put on hold for 7 days, and then for 30 
days in November 2016. A nil payment arrangement doesnt stop the payments being due, 
and just stops collections actions such as phone calls and legal action. And interest is still 
chargeable to the mortgage even when a nil payment arrangement is in place. 
Ive seen the records which were written at the time and I cant see anything to show that Mr 
C was told hed have to pay the arrears immediately in full after the June nil payment 
arrangement. I dont think the need to pay was linked to either the June nil payment 
arrangement, or the holds on collections in November. I think confusion has arisen because, 
by the time of the 7 and 30 day holds in November 2016, the mortgage situation had 
reached a point where there just didnt seem to be any other options apart from court action. 
Mr C believes that if only Halifax had been willing to agree to his ideas about extending the 
mortgage term, or adding the existing arrears to the mortgage balance, it wouldnt have been 
necessary for the property to be possessed. 
But with either of these two options, the total amount of interest payable by Mr C would have 
increased, so it wouldnt have been a quick fix solution which Mr C hoped it would. Lenders 
have a duty to lend responsibly. And it wouldnt be responsible lending to increase the 
mortgage balance by the amount of the arrears, or lengthen the term of the mortgage, 
without clear evidence that Mr C would have been able to afford these higher-cost options. 
Halifax asked Mr C many times to provide details of his income and expenditure, but he 
didnt do so until June 2017, well after the possession hearing. Without this, Halifax had no 
evidence about whether or not any sort of arrangement would stand a practical chance of 
working. On every occasion when Mr C and Halifax spoke, its recorded that Halifax asked 
for this. Mr C gave various reasons why he couldnt provide this  that he didnt know his 
wifes income or which bills she paid; and that he hadnt had the form back from the debt 
charity; and hes since said that he couldnt do this, because he was self-employed. But self-
employed people do provide income and expenditure information, and Im not persuaded 
that Mr C wasnt able to do so.  Possession and afterwards
Mr C has told us that his debt charities told him Halifax hadnt operated the possession 
procedures correctly so he could appeal to have the possession stopped. This is a matter for 
the court to decide, so I cant comment on it. I note that the court didnt stop the possession.
Mr C has also said that Halifaxs legal team told him he didnt have to attend the court 
hearing. Hed told them it would be hard to have a day off because hed only just started a 
new job. But ultimately, it was for Mr C to decide whether or not to attend the court hearings. 
His debt charity advisers were helping him. I dont have evidence that Halifaxs legal team 
told Mr C he didnt have to attend, but even if they did, this was a statement of fact rather 
than advice. It was up to Mr C to decide whether or not to attend. And given the financial 
situation, theres no guarantee that attending would have changed the outcome or made the 
mortgage affordable.
Ive looked at Halifaxs actions after taking the property into possession. It obtained two 
independent valuations by qualified surveyors. Ive seen these, and they were for £77,000 
and £80,000. The property sold for £82,000. Properties in possession dont always sell for as 
much as the price identified by the initial valuations, and I accept that Halifax did what it 
could to obtain the best possible price. Ive also seen the final  statement showing that the 
amount of the shortfall was £21,101.41.
Finally, Mr C has said that Halifaxs debt collection agency acted aggressively towards him. 
The disagreement appears to have been about Mr Cs reluctance to complete and income 
and expenditure form, which Ive discussed above. And in view of the length of time thats 
passed since then, its unlikely that there would be any evidence either way. But I cant 
consider whether or not the agent acted aggressively because I dont have any record that 
Mr C formally complained about this to Halifax, and received the banks final response about 
it, before raising it with this service. Were bound by rules which say, among other things, 
that we can only consider complaints that customers have previously raised with the 
financial organisation. So I cant consider this allegation of aggression. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman