DRN-3867349
The complaint
Mrs P complains that she doesnt get her statements from Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as 
Virgin Money  (Virgin) on time.
What happened
Mrs P has an account with Virgin. Her statement date is the last working day of the month.
Mrs P complained. She said shes consistently received her Virgin statements well beyond 
the tenth working day after the end of the month. She says that it would be reasonable, and 
in line with normal banking practice, to get her statements within five working days. 
Virgin said theyd had no problems during the period with their systems or distribution 
partner. They checked Mrs Ps address and it was correct on Virgins system. They said Mrs 
P could use their digital services to get her account information  but accepted that she had 
said she didnt want to use that service. In response to Mrs Ps complaint that her statement 
for March 2022 hadnt arrived at all, they sent her a replacement and paid compensation of 
£50.
Mrs P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Virgin acted reasonably. Shed seen 
evidence that the statements were being sent in a timely fashion. She said she cant hold 
Virgin responsible if there were then delays in the postal services. She couldnt see that Mrs 
P had suffered any losses, or effect on her day-to-day banking because of the delays. She 
said the use of digital banking might be useful to Mrs P  even though he accepted she 
didnt want to use that. She said that compensation of £50 was right.
Mrs P disagreed. She said the core issue of her complaint was simply that she wants to get 
her statements within a reasonable period  its not the compensation thats important. She 
asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I completely see where Mrs P is coming from  she has explained to us that she usually 
receives her statements up to ten working days after the month end - and sometimes even 
longer. I accept that for anyone wanting to track their financial position, that must be very 
frustrating.
Equally, let me say at the outset that this service exists to resolve individual disputes 
between customers and financial businesses. We arent the regulator of Virgin  thats the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So  we dont tell businesses to change their policies or 
practices. So  here, its for Virgin to make its own commercial decisions as to how it runs its 
statement production. But we do say if a customer has, or hasnt, been dealt with fairly and 
reasonably  based on the individual circumstances of their complaint. 
That said, I was concerned to see how long its taking for Mrs P to get her statements. So, I 
asked Virgin more questions. We saw from their records that statements arent actually 
printed and dispatched on the last working day of the month (as Mrs P might imagine is the 
case). We saw that the data gathering, and then the printing of the statements isnt 
completed for some days after the month end. 
For example, in March 2022, April 2022, May 2022 and June 2022  this process took about 
three working days. Virgin told us that the printed statements are then handed over and 
dispatched by UK Mail over several days. And because of the volumes of statements being 
produced on at the last working day of the month  the whole process can take several days 
to complete. So - that might well explain why Mrs P isnt getting her statements as soon as 
she would wish.
I think Virgin have now explained a little better why there may be a delay in Mrs P receiving 
her statements. But of course, that doesnt resolve her problem  and as Ive explained, I 
cant insist that Virgin change their processes. But Virgin have suggested that if Mrs P was 
willing to change her statement date to a date which is later in the month (Id suggest say 
10th monthly), then there will be lower volumes and a better chance of a timelier delivery. 
Id also reiterate that Mrs P could use online banking to get her statement information. I 
know shes said she doesnt want to do that, but I offer it as a suggestion, nevertheless.
I know Mrs P feels strongly about her complaint and has argued it eloquently and in detail, 
which I appreciate. She will therefore be disappointed that Im not upholding it for the 
reasons Ive given, but I hope that the explanation goes some way to helping her.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman