DRN-2617749
The complaint
Mr W says BUPA Insurance Limited charged him too much for his private medical insurance
policy over a number of years.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision this complaint in January 2021 explaining why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint - part of which is copied below:
In 2004, Mr W took out BUPA Care (scale C)  a private medical insurance policy provided
by BUPA. Due to his profession, he initially received a discount of around 45% on his
annual premium.
From 2005, the policy automatically renewed year on year until 2019, when Mr W cancelled
the policy and took out a different private medical insurance policy provided by BUPA;
marketed as BUPA By You.
Mr W says, having received his renewal notice for the BUPA Care policy in 2019, he was
unhappy that BUPA was proposing to increase his annual premium by over £200, even
taking into account the discount he received  which by that stage had increased to around
50%.
He says he shopped around and discovered that he was able to find similar health insurance
policies at a lower cost, even from BUPA. Thats when he contacted BUPA to complain. And
as a result, ended up taking out the BUPA By You policy which cost him £300 less than the
quote he received to renew the BUPA Care policy in 2019.
Mr W has raised a number of concerns about the way hes been treated by BUPA including:
That he was led to believe that hed been receiving a sizeable discount for the BUPA
Care policy over the years, due to his profession, compared to other customers who
had the benefit of the same policy. But he doesnt now believe that to be the case;
That hed been overcharged for the BUPA Care policy going back a number of years;
BUPA had obstructed his various attempts to check whether he was being offered
the correct policy when he contacted them shortly before the renewal dates and
when he asked whether there were more competitively priced policies, he was
assured that there werent;
Due to his profession, he was generally fitter and healthier compared with people of
his age but his individual circumstances werent taken into account when pricing the
policy;
The BUPA By You policy taken out in 2019 provides more comprehensive cover
compared with the BUPA Care policy he had the benefit of, at a much cheaper price;
He didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions which wouldve been excluded
under the BUPA By You policy. And he underwent full medical screening before
taking out the BUPA By You policy and no additional restrictions were placed on his
policy as a result.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. As he disagreed, his complaint was 
passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision but hopefully hell understand my 
reasons when I explain why.
The annual premiums Mr W paid for the BUPA Care policy
From the information Ive been given  including various screen shots of BUPAs systems,
membership statements and renewal letters over the years  Im satisfied that the annual
premium for the BUPA Care policy taken out by Mr W in 2004 was £414.24.
Im also satisfied that the cost of the BUPA Care policy, which was renewed each year
thereafter, was as follows:
-Year 3: £500.88  July 2006;
-Year 6: £701.28  July 2009;
-Year 7: £791.76  July 2010 (a 12.9% increase on the year before)
-Year 8: £883.32  July 2011 (a 11.6% increase on the year before);
-Year 9: £890.88  July 2012 (a 0.8% increase on the year before);
-Year 10: £892.20  July 2013 (a 0.1% increase on the year before);
-Year 11: £867.24  July 2014 (a 3% reduction on the year before);
-Year 12: £898.08  July 2015 (a 3.6% increase on the year before);
-Year 13: £985.08  July 2016 (a 9.7% increase on the year before);
-Year 14: £1,066.20  July 2017 (a 8.2% increase on the year before);
- Year 15: £1,152.36  July 2018 (a 8.1% increase on the year before).
Although Ive asked BUPA to provide me with the annual premiums paid by Mr W in 2005,
2007 and 2008, its been unable to do so. I dont think thats surprising given how long ago
these policy renewals took place and its various legal duties under data protection legislation
to only keep personal information for as long as required. However, from the information Ive
set out above, I can see that the cost increased by around 21% between 2004 and 2006 so,
on average, around 10% per year. And I can see that the premium increase between 2006
and 2009 by 40% - on average, around 13% per year.
BUPA has been able to provide us with details about the way in which Mr Ws annual
premiums had been calculated between 2014 and 2019. Based on what Ive seen, Im
persuaded that the annual premiums Mr W was charged were partly influenced by an
increase in base rate each year. And the base rate increase wouldve been the same for all
members of BUPA Care of the same age as Mr W, whod opted for a Scale C policy with a
£0 excess.
Between 2014 and 2019, BUPA says the base rate increased each year (between around
6% to 16% in any given year). Its provided a breakdown for each year during this period and
Ive got no reason to doubt what BUPA has said.Once the base rate was calculated, the annual premium Mr W paid was influenced by
individual factors; namely his location and claims history before any applicable discount.
Its for BUPA to determine which factors it takes into account when pricing its health
insurance policies. And I dont think the factors its mentioned are out of line with the industry
norm, or inherently unfair or unreasonable.
Mr Ws annual premium didnt increase by the base rate percentage from 2013 onwards
because, up until 2017, he received a further low claims discount of 6% because he either
didnt claim on the policy or had only made a low value claim. This was on top of the annual
discount he received due to his profession, and that discount increased by a further 5% from
2014. I think this explains why his annual premium reduced that year. And why between
2011 and 2015, the yearly premium Mr W paid for the BUPA Care policy only increased by
around £15 in total, despite insurance premium tax increasing during that period.
I can also see that due to the claims Mr W made on his policy in 2018, he didnt receive a
low discount bonus when his policy renewed in 2018, which wouldve affected the premium
he paid. And due to further, related, claims made on the policy after it was renewed in 2018,
a further 3% was applied to his premium when BUPA invited renewal in 2019 in addition to
the base rate percentage increase. When a policyholder makes a claim on a policy, its not
unusual for this to have an impact on the cost of the policy the year after and so I dont think
this was unreasonable.
Given the evidence Ive seen about the way in which the policy was priced from 2014, Ive
no reason to doubt that the annual premiums Mr W was charged before then wouldnt have
been calculated in a similar way. And so, Im currently persuaded that the premiums hed
been charged since 2004 were also fair and reasonable  and in line with the way in which
BUPA priced the BUPA Care policy.
Mr W is concerned that he hadnt received the discounted rate each year. However, the
various renewal statements Ive seen confirm that BUPA had applied a discount of between
around 45% and 50% to his BUPA Care policy in any given year. BUPA has also sent us a
screenshot covering the period 2015 and 2019 which reflects what the annual premium
wouldve otherwise been without the discount - taking into account the base rate of the
policy, insurance premium tax and the other individual factors relating to Mr W such the
location of where he lived and his claims history (already set out above).
So, based on the evidence Ive been given, Im satisfied BUPA has been able to establish
the price Mr W wouldve paid for the BUPA Care policy between 2015 and 2019 without the
discounts having been applied wouldve been much higher. Im therefore satisfied that a
discount was applied. And, on the balance of probabilities, it was also applied between 2004
and 2014.
Mr W says that he contacted BUPA a number of times over the years, around the time of
renewal, to enquire whether he was on the correct policy and whether it was the most
competitively priced policy available to him. He says that each time hed been assured that
he was on the correct policy, and no other policies were discussed with him.
I asked BUPA for recordings of all calls between its representatives and Mr W over the
years. Its only been able to provide recordings of calls that took place in 2019 and 2020. But
it has been able to provide system notes showing that a call took place in 2014. The notes
are brief and theres nothing to suggest within them that a conversation took place along the
lines Mr W has said. So, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that Mr W did
have the sort of discussions he says he did with BUPA at any time prior to 2019. Whenmaking this finding, Im also conscious that, at no time during the phone call Mr W had with
BUPAs representative in 2019 did he mention any previous conversations. I think its likely
he wouldve mentioned such calls if theyd taken place. Particularly given the purpose of his
initial call to BUPA in 2019 was to raise his concerns that hed recently discovered that he
could find a health insurance policy with BUPA at a cheaper price.
Other health insurance policies provided by BUPA:
BUPA says it only introduced its BUPA By You policy in 2011 and Ive got no reason to
doubt that. Ive asked BUPA to confirm the premium Mr W wouldve paid for the BUPA By
You policy when it first became available. Its said its unable to confirm because the policy
offers many different options and its priced depending on which options are selected. So, I
dont know the quote wouldve been more or less than what he paid for the BUPA Care
policy for 2011/2012.
Everyone seems to agree that Mr W hadnt been offered the BUPA By You policy until he
contacted BUPA in 2019, after receiving his renewal quote for the BUPA Care policy and
having researched the market for other quotes.
Although, I havent seen all letters Mr W received over the years inviting his policy renewal, I
have seen some of them. And from what Ive seen, Im currently satisfied that when offering
renewal, Mr W was invited to contact BUPA if he wanted to discuss his coverage or the
price.
The renewal letter from 2008 says it may be possible for him to reduce his insurance
premium further by introducing or increasing an existing excess on your membership, or by
opting for a different type of hospital access. Hes also informed about other lower costs
schemes including BUPA Local Care, BUPA Essential Care and BUPA Local Hospital Care
which couldve reduced his premiums between 20 and 25%.
So up until 2011, when BUPA introduced BUPA By You to the insurance market and based
on the letter Mr W was sent in 2008, it doesnt look like Mr W couldve received like for like
cover with BUPA if hed opted to take out a different health insurance policy with it  and Im
conscious he was already receiving a significant discount due to his profession.
I dont know whether BUPA contacted Mr W around the time it started offering its BUPA By
You policy or when his BUPA Care policy was due to renew in 2011 / 2012. But even if it
didnt, Im not persuaded BUPA was obliged to proactively do so. And there isnt a regulatory
requirement on insurers to notify existing policyholders of the launch of a new insurance
product.
In several of the renewal letters Ive seen after 2012  for example in 2015 - Mr W
was invited to call BUPA if he wanted to discuss his options with it.
And the renewal letter dated 2017 says:
You've been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance
cover you want at a better price if you shop around. If you do want to look at other
healthcare insurance options, please be mindful that you may not always get like-for 
like cover. For example, pre-existing conditions may be excluded, excesses may
change and the level of access to medical facilities may not be the same.
So, all in all, I think BUPA did all it reasonably shouldve over the years to make Mr W aware
that there were options available to him if he was unhappy with any aspect of his policy
which included the price of the policy. And for the reasons Ive already set out above, Im notcurrently persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr W did contact BUPA before
2019 to query the policys price.
Other issues:
I think Mr Ws BUPA Care policy had been underwritten; it was priced based on his own
personal circumstances. As a result, and taking into account this was a private health
insurance policy, Im persuaded that its likely he wouldve been asked questions about his
health and lifestyle when first taking out the policy. So, although, when pricing the policy,
BUPA might not have considered whether Mr W was fitter or heathier than someone else of
his age and gender but not involved in the profession he was in, I dont think that was unfair
or unreasonable. Ive got no reason to find that Mr W wouldnt have been asked the same
underwriting questions every policyholder wouldve been asked when taking out the BUPA
Care policy. And, due to his profession, hed received a sizeable discount in any event.
Having compared the main features of the BUPA Care policy and BUPA By You policy, I
accept what Mr W says about the BUPA By You policy offering more expansive cover
overall. However, I dont think it automatically follows that this means BUPA has been
overcharging Mr W for the BUPA Care policy over the years. And for the reasons set out
above, Im currently satisfied that the annual premiums Mr W paid for BUPA Care from 2004
to 2019 were fair and reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they wanted me to consider. BUPA didnt reply. Mr W raised several points in 
reply including:
The first part of my provisional decision detailing the annual increases of the BUPA 
Care policy from 2004 to 2019 is irrelevant. Mr W says he was unhappy that hed 
been charged more than a policyholder who didnt share his profession, when hed 
been advised by BUPA that he would be charged substantially less. 
BUPAs assertion that it cant provide details of prices for different years and for 
policyholders who did, and didnt, share his profession is pure obfuscation.
He was charged substantially more for a worse policy  compared with those who 
didnt share his profession as evidenced by the policy paperwork produced for 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes all additional comments received from Mr W. 
But Mr Ws further representations havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. I say that because:
In reply to our investigators view, particularly in his letter dated 7 May 2020, Mr W 
raised concerns about the percentage increases to the annual premium between 
various years. So, Im satisfied it was appropriate to consider each yearly premium 
increase - from when the policy was taken out in 2004 - to see whether what he was 
charged for the BUPA Care policy was fair and reasonable. For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that BUPA priced Mr Ws policy fairly 
and reasonably up to the point he took out the BUPA By You policy in 2019. 
From the evidence Ive seen  as set out more fully in my provisional decision  Im 
persuaded that Mr W did receive the discount BUPA said he had each year because 
of his profession. This varied from 45% to around 50% each year.  Im satisfied 
BUPA has been able to establish the price Mr W wouldve paid for the BUPA Care 
policy between 2015 and 2019 - without the discounts having been applied - 
wouldve been much higher. Im therefore also satisfied that a discount had been 
applied. And, on the balance of probabilities, it had also been applied between 2004 
and 2014 as BUPA says.
I know Mr W says that he was told that the BUPA Care policy was the best policy on 
available and he would be receiving a significant discount. Ive seen nothing to say 
that wasnt the case in 2004 when he first took out BUPA Care. 
As reflected in my provisional decision I accept what BUPA says about it only having 
introduced its BUPA By You policy in 2011. I asked BUPA to confirm the premium Mr 
W wouldve paid for the BUPA By You policy when it first became available. BUPA 
said its unable to confirm because the policy offers many different options and its 
priced depending on which options are selected. I know Mr W is unhappy with 
BUPAs response but because I havent been provided with any calculations, I dont 
know whether the BUPA By You policy wouldve been more or less than what Mr W 
paid for the BUPA Care policy for 2011/2012. Further, as reflected in my provisional 
decision, I also dont know whether BUPA contacted Mr W around the time it started 
offering its BUPA By You policy or when his BUPA Care policy was due to renew in 
2011 / 2012. But even if it didnt, Im not persuaded BUPA was obliged to proactively 
do so. And there isnt a regulatory requirement on insurers to notify existing 
policyholders of the launch of a new insurance product. For the reasons Ive set out 
in my provisional decision, Im satisfied from what Ive been given that after 2012, 
when inviting renewal of Mr Ws BUPA Care policy, BUPA did let Mr W know that he 
could contact it to discuss his options. And on the balance of probabilities, I dont 
think he did that, until after receiving his renewal invite in 2019. 
So, for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision  I dont uphold Mr Ws 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman