DRN-2852082
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) misled him regarding a 
fund switch.
What happened
On the evening of Wednesday 5 August 2020, Mr P gave an online instruction to switch his 
Aviva plan from a singular investment to two lower risk funds. During the course of this 
instruction, Mr P was notified that such switches normally took two working days to process. 
In order to proceed, Mr P was also required to confirm his understanding that, once given, 
the instruction could not subsequently be cancelled.
The switch was effected on Monday 10 August. Counting 5 August - the day the instruction 
was given - this could be interpreted as three working days later. However, not counting 5 
August  on the basis that Mr P gave his instruction after business hours on that day - this is 
two working days later. In any case, between Friday 7 and Monday 10 August, the unit price 
fell by approximately 3%.
Mr P and Aviva are in agreement that Mr P called Aviva on the morning of 10 August, and 
that during this call Mr P was wrongly informed that the instruction date was the effective 
date of the switch. Mr P called Aviva again on 12 August and raised his concerns about the 
discrepancy between the value and the information he had been given by Aviva two days 
previously. 
Once it had located the call of 10 August, Aviva accepted that Mr P had been given incorrect 
information during this call regarding the effective date of the switch. Aviva also 
acknowledged that the statement regarding normal timescales Mr P saw while making the 
online instruction couldve been clearer regarding the switch timescales. In recognition of 
this, Aviva offered Mr P £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience  an offer which 
it later raised to £150.
Mr P felt this offer was insufficient. He said that, had he been correctly informed that the 
switch would take until Monday 10 August to complete, he wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the instruction. Instead, Mr P said he would have chosen to remain invested in the original 
fund until September 2020. As such, he felt Aviva should compensate him with a sum 
equivalent to the fall in value between 7 and 10 August 2020.
Aviva did not accept this argument. It said that the switch had been processed correctly and 
reiterated that it couldnt be backdated or reversed. Mr P then brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and was of the view that Mr P wouldve most likely 
given the instruction to switch on 5 August, even if the instruction on the website had been 
clearer. He also found that the telephone conversation in which Mr P was wrongly informed 
about the effective date of the switch wouldve had no bearing on his instruction on 5 August, 
as it took place after this date. 
Our investigator did acknowledge that Mr P had been wrongly informed, and that 
compensation was due for the distress and inconvenience caused by this, but he was of the 
view that the £150 award offered by Aviva was sufficient. As such, our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision, and 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the screenshots that Mr P wouldve seen when making the online 
instruction. In order to confirm the instruction, Mr P wouldve had to tick a box indicating his 
consent to the following statement: I confirm I wish to proceed with these changes and 
understand that they cannot be cancelled. So, I am persuaded Mr P wouldve been aware of 
the irreversible nature of his instruction.
In addition, Mr P wouldve seen the following notice warning that: Changes will normally be 
effective within the next two working days and cannot be cancelled. I accept that Mr P 
couldve interpreted the two working days mentioned here to include the day of the 
instruction  even though it was after normal business hours when this instruction was given. 
However, in my view, the use of the word normally within this sentence makes it apparent 
that this timescale is a guideline, rather than a guarantee. Furthermore, it implies that  
however infrequently - the effective date sometimes falls outside of the two working days 
timescale.
If Mr Ps decision-making at the time had been entirely predicated on the switch being 
effective by no later than Friday 7 August (to the extent that the possibility of an additional 
days delay wouldve caused him to cease the instruction altogether), then I wouldve 
expected this wording  in combination with the knowledge that his decision was irreversible 
- to have stopped him from proceeding. Instead, Mr P went ahead with the instruction, which 
suggests to me that he was either unconcerned about not having a guaranteed timeframe or 
willing to take the risk.
In any case, even if Mr P had been informed that the switch would definitely not take place 
until Monday 10 August, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me this wouldve 
caused him to delay his instruction until September. I must take into consideration what Mr P 
wouldve known at the time of making the decision, rather what he wouldve done with the 
benefit of hindsight. Mr Ps intention was to reduce the risk of his investments remaining 
where they were and, in my view, awareness of an additional days processing time is 
unlikely to have had an impact on this intention or to have stopped him going ahead.
Turning to the call of 10 August 2020, it is not in dispute that Mr P was misinformed. 
However, this was some days after the instruction had already been given, and therefore this 
incorrect information could not have influenced Mr Ps decision. This means it wouldnt be 
fair for me to ask Aviva to compensate Mr P for the fall in value between 7 and 10 August 
2020, as this is a loss that Mr P wouldve incurred regardless of this misleading telephone 
call.
However, it is clear that Aviva gave Mr P false reassurance in the 10 August call, which in 
turn presumably increased his disappointment when the correct position was revealed. This mustve been frustrating and upsetting, and I agree Mr P is entitled to compensation in 
relation to this.
As our investigator has already explained, our awards for distress and inconvenience are 
typically modest. The sum that Aviva has offered of £150 is in line with what Id usually find 
appropriate in a case of this nature. As such, I wont be asking Aviva to increase this award. 
Although it is not the primary focus of Mr Ps complaint, I have also considered whether 
Aviva has complied with its own fund switching processes and standards in this instance, to 
ensure that Mr P has not been treated less favourably than any other customer in similar 
circumstances. The process states that Category A fund switches, which I understand this 
was, take effect two working days after the request is received, provided the instruction is 
received before 5pm. As Mr P submitted his request after 5pm on 5 August, this means the 
date the switch took effect  10 August  is in line with this. So I cant say Aviva has treated 
Mr P unfairly in this regard.
My final decision
Aviva has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle this complaint and I think this offer is 
fair and reasonable. So my decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay 
£150 to compensate Mr P for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced. Im not 
asking Aviva to increase this sum.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Ellie Clare
Ombudsman
