DRN-2320596
The complaint
Ms Es complaint is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has used the 
compensation from a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to 
credit card ending 9423 to reduce the debt it says Ms E still owes following completion of 
an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).
What happened
In 2010 Ms E entered into an IVA. The IVA was completed in 2016. 
RBS was party to the IVA.
Ms E later complained to RBS about a PPI policy she had been sold with a credit card 
ending 9423.
RBS agreed to uphold the complaint and offered compensation which Ms E accepted. But 
RBS used the compensation to reduce the debt on the credit card it said was still owed by 
Ms E.
Ms E says that as the IVA has been completed and the debt written off RBS should pay 
the compensation directly to her. Ms E says other businesses have paid compensation 
direct to the consumer in similar situations.
Our adjudicator thought RBS had acted fairly. Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the letter RBS sent to Ms E in March 2020. I can see that on page one it 
mentions the offer of £2,462.60. On page two the letter mentions that if Ms E had been 
party to an IVA any payment would be made to the relevant account. And on the form 
which
Ms E signed to accept the offer it was again stated that if Ms E had been in an IVA then any 
payment will be made to the relevant account. So I think RBS offer made it clear that it 
intended to use the compensation to offset any outstanding debt.
But Ms E has told us there is no outstanding debt as all the debt with RBS was written off 
and does not exist following the completion of the IVA.
Ive thought about this but when Ms E entered into the IVA, the debts she owed werent 
cancelled. And they werent cancelled when she completed the IVA in 2016. The debt was 
written off which meant Ms E couldnt be chased for the debt. However, the debt she had 
with RBS still existed.
RBS has shown us evidence that on completion of the IVA there remained a debt of
£4,361.05. I think RBS can use the compensation to reduce this balance. In effect Ms E 
owes RBS the outstanding debt on the credit card, and RBS owes Ms E a smaller amount 
of compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy. So I think its fair for RBS to set one against the 
other.
Ms E has pointed out that other businesses in similar situations have paid PPI 
compensation direct to the consumer. But each business is free to exercise its own 
commercial judgement, and in this case RBS has chosen to use the compensation to 
reduce the outstanding debt that still existed following the IVA. And I think its acted fairly in 
doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has acted fairly when using the 
compensation from a mis-sold PPI to reduce Ms Es outstanding debt. So I make no further 
award against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman