DRN-2376659
The complaint
Mr R complains that esure Insurance Limited provided poor service to him after he made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy following an accident that wasnt his fault.  
 
What happened
Mr R had to swerve his car to avoid a car that was approaching him on the wrong side of the 
road, and a vehicle then collided with the rear of his vehicle. Mr Rs car was written-off by 
esure and it paid him £1,000 for it, minus £500 for the policy excess. Mr R wasnt happy with 
that sum and later said he wasnt given the option of buying the car back. He said the hire 
car esure provided wasnt suitable. And he said as esure hadnt handled the claim properly 
he was now paying a higher premium as his no claims discount (NCD) had reduced.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. She thought esure had provided good 
service to Mr R and noted that the claim was paid eight days after he reported the accident. 
She found that just one promised call to him wasnt made. She couldnt find any evidence 
that Mr R had asked to buy the car back prior to the claim being paid. The investigator 
thought esure had paid the market value for the car, but as it shouldnt have deducted £107 
for old damage, she said it should refund that sum to him, which esure agreed to do. She 
said as esure hadnt yet been able to recover its outlay on the claim, it was fair for it to 
reduce Mr Rs NCD. And in her view, the hire car provided to Mr R was acceptable. 
Mr R said he wanted a letter from esure setting out his NCD and clarifying the record that it 
had put on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE). esure then provided a 
letter, explaining that Mr R had two years NCD. Mr R insisted that he had four years NCD, 
as he hadnt caused the accident. He said he also wanted the claim closed, as the open 
claim and the loss of NCD meant he was having to pay more for insurance that he should 
have had to do. esure said it couldnt progress the claim, as Mr Rs solicitor was preparing 
legal action on Mr Rs personal injury claim and had asked esure not to prejudice the claims 
process. But Mr R didnt agree with that - and he said esure was pursuing the wrong driver, 
as it was the vehicle that hit his car in the rear that had caused all the damage.
The investigator explained (as esure had done several times) that the driver who was 
responsible for the accident was the one who had caused Mr R to swerve to avoid him. She 
pointed out that Mr Rs solicitors were pursuing that driver as well  and that they had 
recently confirmed that they still wanted esure to hold back from taking any legal action.As 
there was no agreement, Mr Rs complaint was passed to me for review.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr R can show that esure pursued the wrong driver. It contacted the insurer of 
the driver who was to blame for the accident (by forcing Mr R to swerve to avoid his 
oncoming vehicle) as soon as it had the details it needed to do so. The slow response from 
the other insurer delayed matters, but esure cant control the response time of other 
insurers. All it can do if an insurer continues not to co-operate is to take legal action against 
that insurer to get its outlay on the claim back. Here, that wasnt possible. Mr Rs solicitors 
were preparing for legal action, and the personal injury claim may have been affected had 
esure done anything further  despite the solicitors asking it not to do so.  
 
I think esure made it clear to Mr R that if his solicitors were able to settle the personal injury 
claim informally, then esure would be able to consider taking legal action about the damage 
to the car. And it said that if the personal injury claim went to court, the solicitors would also 
claim for esures outlay. esure explained that once it recovered its outlay, it would restore the 
two years extra NCD to Mr R and change the CUE record to show the NCD had been 
allowed. Meanwhile, it provided a letter to Mr R to show to other insurers to explain what the 
situation was, but it couldnt change the premium other insurers decided to charge him. 
I think esure acted reasonably in taking these steps. Its standard industry practice for a 
claim to be recorded as open on CUE, with NCD disallowed  even when a driver isnt to 
blame for an accident  until the insurer recovers its outlay on a claim. I fully understand why 
Mr R thinks thats unfair, but its the way insurance works, and esure cant change that.  
I think esure has shown that it valued Mr Rs car fairly. We think the best way to establish a 
cars market value is to look at the figures set out in the national trade guides. Theyre based 
on extensive research of likely selling prices. If one of the trade guide figures is out of line 
with the other three guides, we think its fair to disregard it, as esure did in this case. Mr R 
had bought the car three years earlier for £1,200 - but he told esure hed spent around 
£3,000 on it for new parts. I can see why Mr R thought that meant the car was worth more. 
But as replacing parts is classed as maintenance, it doesnt add to the cars market value. If 
Mr R hadnt kept the car in good condition, it would have been valued at less than £1,000.
Its standard industry practice to deduct a sum for old damage on a car from the settlement 
sum paid for it. But I dont think it was right for esure to deduct £107 for the old damage it 
noted on Mr Rs car, given its age. esure has already agreed to put that right. 
I can see why Mr R was upset with the deduction of £500 for the policy excess too, as it 
halved the sum esure paid him for the car. But Mr R had agreed to the policy excess when 
he bought the policy - and the agreed policy excess is payable on every claim. esure 
returned the £500 it had correctly deducted to Mr R as soon as it found that the other driver 
had pleaded guilty in court to dangerous driving. esure wasnt required to do that until it had 
recovered the sum from the other drivers insurer, so I think it did more than it needed to do.
Theres no right to buy back a written-off car in the policy, and I cant see anything on the file 
that shows Mr R asked esure about retaining it before esure paid the claim. Mr Rs daughter 
had a call with one of esures advisors, during which she complained about the sum it had 
offered him for the car. The advisor said Mr R could withdraw the claim - but that Mr R would 
have to pay any costs esure had run up (such as car hire). Unsurprisingly, Mr R didnt 
withdraw the claim. It was during this call that the advisor gave Mr Rs daughter the 
impression that the other insurer may respond in around a months time to esures query 
about liability for the accident. As that was overly-optimistic, esure later paid Mr R £100 for 
the advisor not having managed Mr Rs expectations well. I think that was reasonable.  
In terms of the replacement hire vehicle provided to Mr R, the policy says one of the same 
type or size as the consumers vehicle will be provided. The specifications of the hire vehicle 
show that it was similar in size, if a little bigger than Mr Rs car. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for that vehicle to be offered to him. More importantly, I cant see anything on 
the file about Mr R having raised an objection to it at the outset. Had he done so, I think 
esure is likely to have asked the hire firm whether it was able to change the vehicle.   Mr R told esure later that the hire vehicle was so dirty he didnt notice the damage to its rear 
until after hed washed it. When he returned the vehicle, he pointed it out, but the hire firm 
said it wasnt damaged when Mr R took it. Unfortunately, it seems Mr R signed the 
documents to agree that the vehicle was in good condition before he saw it. He didnt insist 
on walking around the car with the hire firms agent. Nor did he complain to esure about the 
state of the vehicle or that a visual check wasnt done before he took it. The damage may 
already have been there at that time, or it may have happened whilst Mr R had the vehicle, 
without his knowledge. The problem was that Mr R couldnt prove he wasnt at fault.   
In my opinion, esure treated Mr R well in deciding to absorb the cost of the damage to the 
hire car, rather than recording it against Mr Rs policy and charging him a further policy 
excess. As he couldnt show he wasnt to blame for the damage, I think that was a generous 
gesture of goodwill towards Mr R. I can see that esure also refunded an admin charge of £26 
to Mr R when he added a new car to the policy, despite being entitled to retain the payment. 
I think Mr Rs complaint about the deduction of old damage should be upheld, but I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold any of the other issues hes raised. I know 
hell  be very disappointed with my decision, and I understand that from his point of view, 
esure didnt do all it could to help him. Theres no doubt that Mr R has faced inconvenience 
as well as distress as a result of the accident and the claim, but I think much of that was 
unavoidable. And we only require an insurer to pay compensation if we think the insurer 
caused the distress and inconvenience, as a result of acting unreasonably.  
In my opinion, esure followed standard industry practice and was prevented from doing more 
to finalise and close the claim, as set out above. I have great sympathy for Mr R, given the 
situation he found himself in. But I think esure acted reasonably in general (and more than 
reasonably at times) by paying Mr R compensation, refunding an admin fee, absorbing the 
cost of the hire vehicles damage and returning the policy excess to him early.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint only in part. I require esure Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr R the £107 it deducted for pre-existing damage to his car (as it has already agreed 
to do). It should add interest to that sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date the 
payment for the car was made to the date of settlement. If esure thinks its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much 
its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman