DRN-2473200
The complaint
Mr J complains that advice from HSBC UK Bank plc to establish a Free Standing Additional
Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) policy was unsuitable. 
What happened
In 1991 HSBC advised Mr J to set up an FSAVC arrangement. At the time Mr J was a
member of his employers occupational pension scheme, and if he worked to his normal
retirement date within that scheme he would complete forty years service.
Mr J said HSBCs advice was unsuitable because it didnt consider whether in-house AVCs
were available to him.
HSBC said added years AVCs through his employers scheme werent appropriate for Mr J
because he was on track to complete the maximum number of years service in that
scheme. It said in-house money purchase AVCs were also linked to the main schemes
benefits. So these types of AVCs werent appropriate for Mr J either. It considered the
FSAVC was the only option available for him to increase his retirement benefits.
Our investigators initial conclusions were that the complaint should be upheld. HSBC hadnt
been able to provide much evidence from the point of sale. So the investigator couldnt
safely conclude it had met its regulatory obligations to explain to Mr J the difference between
an FSAVC policy and in-house AVC arrangements, or direct him to his employer or
occupational scheme for more information about the in-house option.
The investigator thought that if HSBC had complied with its regulatory obligations, it was
likely that Mr J wouldve proceeded with an in-house AVC arrangement because it wouldve
been cheaper than the FSAVC policy.
HSBC didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. It maintained that because Mr J was
due to complete maximum service in his employers scheme, in-house AVCs werent
available to him.
In response, the investigator accepted that an in-house AVC arrangement wouldnt have
been an option if Mr J completed forty years service. But she considered early retirement
may have been a consideration for Mr J, and the investigator wasnt persuaded this was
discussed with him by HSBC. Mr J had retired before his normal retirement date, seven
years after he took the advice from HSBC.
HSBC then provided evidence to show Mr J had continued working after hed taken early
retirement. It considered this showed it was likely Mr J planned to work until his expected
retirement date when he took advice in 1991. On that basis HSBC maintained its advice to
start the FSAVC policy was suitable.
The investigator reviewed the case again and concluded the complaint should not be upheld.
From the further evidence shed seen, she thought it was likely Mr J intended to work until
his normal retirement date when he took advice from HSBC in 1991. As he wouldve
completed forty years service, the investigator was satisfied it wouldnt have been possible
for him to set up an in-house AVC arrangement through his employers scheme. So she
concluded HSBCs advice to start the FSAVC policy was suitable.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators most recent conclusions. He said maximum service
in his employers scheme wouldnt have prevented him from buying in-house money
purchase AVCs. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so the matter
was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 7 December 2020 and said that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
HSBC hadnt been able to provide much information from the point of sale, so Id 
thought carefully about what Mr J had told me about his circumstances in 1991, and 
Id considered what was likely to have happened.
Mr J was 47 at the time, and thirteen years away from normal retirement date in his
employers scheme. If hed worked until that date he wouldve completed forty years
pensionable service, which was the maximum length of time permitted by the 
scheme for calculating benefits.
Mr J did, in fact, retire from his employers scheme before his normal retirement date. 
But he continued to work after hed taken early retirement.
I wasnt persuaded that it was relevant for me to take account of Mr Js actions after 
he took advice from HSBC in 1991. My only consideration was what happened, or 
was likely to have happened, in 1991.
I thought it was likely in 1991 that Mr J thought he would continue to work for his 
employer until his normal retirement date. On that basis he wouldve completed 
maximum service in his employers scheme. So I accepted it wouldnt have
been possible for him to buy in-house AVCs on an added years basis.
HSBC said all in-house AVC schemes were linked to the main scheme. On that 
basis, it didnt consider Mr J wouldve been able to contribute to a money purchase 
in-house AVC scheme. 
HSBC hadnt provided the relevant scheme provision to show how AVCs were
linked to main scheme benefits in Mr Js employers scheme.
But my understanding was that before 2006, the only restriction in terms of employee
contributions to an occupational pension scheme was a maximum salary contribution 
of 15% gross of tax relief.
I wasnt persuaded that potential maximum benefits from the scheme meant that
contributions couldnt be made to an in-house money purchase AVC scheme, 
provided that the overall 15% maximum contribution wasnt exceeded.
I thought if HSBC had explored this with Mr J, it was unlikely he wouldve proceeded 
with the FSAVC. Thats because I thought it was likely an in-house money purchase 
AVC scheme wouldve been cheaper than the FSAVC policy.
So I was satisfied that HSBCs advice to start the FSAVC policy was unsuitable, and 
that Mr J should be compensated.Mr J didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
HSBC said it accepted my provisional findings. My provisional decision included instructions 
on how the compensation should be paid  either to Mr Js pension scheme or as a direct 
payment to him with a deduction for tax. HSBC said it wasnt possible to pay the 
compensation to Mr Js pension scheme, and that HSBC didnt deduct tax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I dont intend to depart from 
the position set out in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that HSBCs advice was 
unsuitable, and that Mr J should be compensated.   
Putting things right
HSBC should undertake a redress calculation, as at the date of this decision, in accordance 
with the regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take 
into account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods 
after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, HSBC should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid
into Mr Js pension plan. As HSBC has said it isnt possible to make the payment to the 
pension plan, I accept that the compensation will be paid directly to Mr J, with no deduction 
for tax. 
HSBC must make the payment to Mr J within 28 days of the date on which we tell it he 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay compensation 
to Mr J in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman