DRN-3258302
The complaint
Ms B complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to apply a 
retrospective exclusion to her private medical insurance policy, and turn down her claim.
What happened
On 29 March 2018, Ms B took out the policy via a broker. AXA asked some medical 
questions during the application. Based on the answers, AXA accepted Ms B for cover. 
The policy was taken out on a continued medical exclusions basis from her previous 
provider.
In 2019, Ms B made a claim to AXA as she was experiencing problems with her ear. 
She thought this related to her existing condition of Eustachian tube dysfunction.
AXA assessed the claim. Based on information provided by Ms Bs GP, AXA thought Ms 
B had misrepresented information about her health when taking out the policy. It said that 
if it had known the information, it wouldve applied an exclusion for Eustachian tube 
dysfunction. It therefore backdated the exclusion to the start of the policy. AXA also turned 
down Ms Bs claim as it said this fell under the exclusion. Unhappy with this, Ms B made a 
complaint.
AXA obtained further medical information in order to consider Ms Bs complaint. After 
it considered this information, it widened the exclusion to cover ear trouble. Unhappy 
with AXAs decision, and its handling of the matter, Ms B brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought AXA had been 
entitled to apply the exclusion based on the policy terms, and therefore turn down the 
claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 December 2021. Heres what I said:
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, I need to consider the case in 
accordance with the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), rather than the policy terms. CIDRA requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract.
AXA has provided a screenshot of the application form submitted to it by Ms Bs broker. 
This said:
For the following questions: By treatment we mean surgical or medical services 
(including medication prescribed by a specialist) that are needed to diagnose, 
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury. A specialist is any doctor (including 
psychiatrist) who is not your GP.
The application then asked:
Have you had treatment in hospital or consulted a specialist in the last 12 
months?
Im satisfied this was a clear question. Ms B answered no.
I see that after AXA accepted Ms B for cover, she was sent a membership guide. 
This document included a copy of the health questions asked, and Ms Bs answers.
Ive therefore considered the medical evidence, in order to decide whether Ms B 
took reasonable care in answering the above question.
Ms B saw an ENT consultant in August 2017 about her left ear, though no investigations 
or treatment took place. However, as Ms B consulted a specialist, I think she ought to 
have still disclosed this in response to the question.
Then in January 2018, Ms B saw another consultant. That was because her right ear had 
become blocked. The consultant noted that Ms B had a previous history of excessive wax 
accumulation. He removed this with microsuction. He also noted that the grommet in her 
left ear had extruded and he removed this together with some wax.
Given that Ms B consulted a specialist and had a medical procedure (microsuction), I 
think it was reasonable for AXA to conclude that she ought to have disclosed this 
information in response to the question.
Overall, I think Ms B failed to take reasonable care when answering the medical 
question, and so there was misrepresentation.
Ms B says the incidents slipped her mind. Thats unfortunate, but I see that AXA had 
treated Ms Bs misrepresentation as careless, rather than deliberate. I think that was 
reasonable.
AXAs underwriter says that if Ms B had told AXA the relevant information, it would 
have applied the following exclusion:
No benefit is payable for any investigations and treatment related to Ear 
trouble, any underlying cause and conditions arising therefrom or 
associated therewith.
Im satisfied that AXA has therefore shown that the misrepresentation was qualifying 
(in other words, AXA would have only offered the policy to Ms B under different terms). 
Under CIDRA, that means AXA was able to apply the exclusion retrospectively.
As Ms Bs claim was for ear problems, I agree with AXA that her claim fell under 
the exclusion and it was therefore fair for it to turn down the claim.
Ms B says that AXA advised her in June 2019 that her claim was being turned 
down because of the exclusion, but she wasnt aware an exclusion had been 
added to her policy. She says she contacted AXA several times over the next two 
months about the matter, and then eventually found out about the exclusion.
Ive listened to the relevant calls to establish what happened.
On 28 June 2019, Ms B was told by AXA that her claim fell under an exclusion that 
applied to her policy. AXA has confirmed to this service that the exclusion was applied earlier that day. It seems the adviser didnt notice this, and thought the exclusion had 
always been on Ms Bs policy.
It wasnt until 11 July 2019 that AXA advised Ms B during a phone call that the exclusion 
had been added after her policy started, and the reasons for that.
AXA then sent Ms B her updated membership guide (that contained the exclusion) on 
20 August 2019.
It seems to me that AXA caused Ms B unnecessary worry and confusion here. I think AXA 
ought to have told Ms B that it intended to apply a retrospective exclusion to her policy 
and the reasons for that, yet instead it applied the exclusion without telling her. Ms B was 
caused further confusion when AXA told her that the exclusion had always been on her 
policy.
I intend to require AXA to pay Ms B £125 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her as a result of its handling of the matter.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before 
I reached a final decision. 
Ms B responded with the following main points:
If she had remembered the visits from August 2017 and January 2018, she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy.
 
The microsuction she had in January 2018 wasnt related to her claim to AXA. 
Ms B thinks its particularly harsh to penalise her for urgent ear treatment on the 
basis of two relatively minor incidents.
She doesnt think the incidents of August 2017 and January 2018 would be 
considered treatment.
She thinks AXA has failed to honour a legally binding contract of insurance, and 
AXA hasnt shown any breach of the contract on her part.
She thinks the compensation of £125 is somewhat paltry for the confusion caused 
by AXA. She has asked to see files, emails and other papers of the handlers to 
see what happened.
She has asked if the policy includes an arbitration clause.
AXA responded to say its disappointed that I intend to award £125 compensation. It 
thinks Im effectively rewarding Ms B for not providing the relevant information at the point 
of sale. AXA says there were only three calls in total concerning the matter, and it believes 
the error itself made no material difference to the outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B says the incidents of August 2017 and January 2018 wouldnt be considered 
treatment, as defined by AXA. However, the relevant question also asked if shed consulted a specialist in the last 12 months. I think Ms B answered this part of the question incorrectly 
as shed consulted two specialists in that period.
Ms B thinks AXA has breached the contract of insurance, and hasnt shown that she 
breached it. As I explained in my provisional decision, the relevant legislation that would 
apply here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
This explains that when taking out a consumer contract, the consumer must take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. If a consumer does fail to take reasonable care and 
there is misrepresentation, there are various remedies available to an insurer, depending on 
the circumstances.
In Ms Bs case, I concluded there had been misrepresentation. AXA has shown that it 
wouldve applied an exclusion for ear trouble had it known of her previous consultations (it 
doesnt matter whether those previous consultations were related to the later claim or not). 
Under CIDRA, that means AXAs entitled to apply that exclusion retrospectively.
To address AXAs point, my intended compensation award of £125 is not to reward Ms B for 
failing to take reasonable care when completing the application. Its to recognise that AXA 
provided Ms B with a poor service in its handling of the matter, by giving her wrong 
information relating to its decision to apply the exclusion, thereby causing her unnecessary 
confusion. Although Ms B is unhappy with this amount, Im satisfied that £125 is reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances, and reflects the level of inconvenience she was caused 
by the matter.
Ms B has asked to see files and emails of AXAs staff relating to the confusion about the 
exclusion. Ms B would need to request this information directly from AXA. To be clear, I 
based my view on this matter from the phone calls that took place between the parties.
Ms B has asked if the policy includes an arbitration clause. Ms B would need to check her 
policy document to see if AXAs offers a separate arbitration process to this service. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that AXA decision to apply the retrospective exclusion and decline 
the claim was fair. However, it should pay Ms B £125 compensation for its poor handling of 
the matter, for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited to pay Ms B £125 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman