DRN-2411444
The complaint
Mr B has several investment funds with HSBC UK Bank plc. He complains that HSBC 
delayed sending him updated information about the funds. The objectives of the funds had 
changed, and he is disappointed he was not informed. HSBC apologised and paid Mr B £50 
compensation. He is dissatisfied with this response.
What happened
Mr B has funds with HSBC Global Investment Centre. In August and September 2019 two of 
the fund providers made changes to the literature sent to investors. This followed an 
industry-wide review about the wording and information provided to customers. HSBC 
initially decided that the new information did not need to be sent to customers. However, 
they reviewed their procedures and sent the information in February 2020.
When Mr B received the information, he complained to HSBC. They issued their final 
response in which they acknowledged they should have sent the information to Mr B sooner. 
They apologised and paid Mr B £50 for the inconvenience caused by their error.
Mr B did not agree with HSBC and referred his complaint to this Service. He made the 
following points about the changes to the funds:
Asia
The New Objective and Policy now:
ostates that the investment will be at least 70% equities, which was not 
previously expressed in the old policy
ohighlights that the investment manager is not restricted in terms of size, 
industry or geographical split. Ordinarily one would expect some form of 
accumulation / concentration risk management on these attributes.
The investment manager also appears to have more "freedom" to invest outside the 
MSCI Index, which can result in performance varying significantly from the index 
itself. This was not included in the prior objective statement.
Open World Fund
The previous objective states that the fund provides global exposure to a diversified 
range of assets by primarily investing in funds, whereas the new objective states that 
at least 70% is invested into funds
Global Property Fund
The new objective now 
omakes reference to aiming to deliver value increase over a 5-year period or 
more
oincludes percentage minimums (70%) for how much would be invested in 
equities
ohas more definition around concentration of holdings of between 30 to 50 
securities  this was not previously mentioned
oalso states now that the fund is managed without reference to a benchmark? 
Why is there no benchmark?
oalso makes references to other investment vehicles now such as transferable 
securities, money market instruments and the like
North America Income Fund
The previous policy was to invest primarily in blue chip companies, yet now seems to 
have lost that perspective of investing in higher end blue chip businesses.
The new policy also now states that at least 70% of the fund is invested in shares of 
companies based in North America and that now up to 30% can be invested in other 
assets anywhere in the world. Why is it that the fund has changed from what is 
clearly a North American labelled fund to now only having at least 70% being US? It's 
clearly not a primary US Blue Chip fund if up to 30% can be invested elsewhere in 
the world.
HSBC told us that they contacted the fund managers. The material changes to the objectives 
were to make it easier for the consumers to understand. The fund managers had confirmed 
there would be no changes to the way the funds were managed and no change to the risk 
profiles.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He concluded that there were no 
changes made to the way the funds were managed. However, the way the funds objectives 
and policies were described did change. Our investigator thought Mr B would not have made 
any changes if the information had been provided to Mr B sooner.
However, even if Mr B had sold the funds when the information should have been sent to 
him in August and September 2019, he would not have suffered a loss. The fund prices were 
higher in February 2020 when Mr B did receive the information. Therefore, he had not 
suffered a loss.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence, I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator and 
for the same reasons.
The fund providers have explained that the way the funds were managed did not change. 
The description provided offered more detail about the funds. I am not persuaded that there 
was any material change to any of the funds. However, the revised description could have 
caused Mr B to alter his fund selection. But Mr B did not alter the funds when he received 
the information in February 2020. It therefore appears unlikely to me that Mr B would have 
relied on the information to change his investments.
I agree with our investigator that Mr B is unlikely to have suffered a loss. When he did 
receive the information from HSBC, the unit prices of the funds were higher than in August 
and September 2019 when the information should have been sent. If the information was 
important enough to lead Mr B to change his fund selection he could have done so in 
February 2020, at which time he would not have suffered a loss.
Mr B has made a number of points which relate to him being a customer of HSBC. None of 
these points affect my decision. These are a commercial matter between Mr B and HSBC.In conclusion, I think HSBC should have sent the information to Mr B when it was issued. 
But I dont think it would have caused him to switch funds. Even if he had switched funds, I 
do not think he has suffered a loss.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint. I consider that the £50 already paid is sufficient to 
compensate for HSBC UK Bank plcs error.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Roy Milne
Ombudsman