DRN-3580064
The complaint
Ms W complains that ReAssure Limited as mismanaged her personal pension fund. 
What happened
Ms W had a personal pension plan, which she took out with another business. ReAssure 
have taken over responsibility for the management and administration of this plan so are the 
responsible entity in this complaint.
Ms W made monthly contributions of around £30-40 to her pension fund between June 1988 
and May 1991. She said shed contributed around £1251 in total.
In October 2021, Ms W complained to ReAssure. She said she was nearing retirement and 
was looking into her pension entitlement. She was distraught to discover her pension fund 
was worth around £2,200. She said her pension fund didnt have the purchasing power of 
her original investment. And, if her fund had grown in line with the annualised return of the 
S&P 500 (the performance of the 500 largest US companies) over 30 years, her fund 
should be worth around £31,713. Ms W felt ReAssure had mismanaged her pension fund 
and wanted it to compensate her.
In its final response of 7 November 2021, ReAssure said it had managed her policy in line 
with its terms and conditions. It said global financial circumstances had led to her plan 
achieving lower than desired returns  there had been a number of periods since Ms Ws 
policy was taken out where economic conditions were extremely poor, causing investment 
growth to slow or halt. It explained the Final Bonus applied to Ms Ws With-Profits fund was 
not guaranteed and would be calculated when Ms W was paid out funds from her policy. The 
Final Bonus would be calculated taking into account her contributions, minus charges and 
expenses deducted from her fund. Unhappy with this response, Ms W referred her complaint 
to our Service.
One of our Investigators reviewed Ms Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. Our Investigator 
didnt think there was any evidence to suggest she given any guarantees about what she 
might get back from her pension or that ReAssure mismanaged her fund. Our Investigator 
noted management charges applied to the fund had contributed to the reduction in her plans 
value.
Ms W didnt agree, saying its clear her plan was mis-managed, given the S&P 500 grew 
over 2435% over 30 years and her fund had not achieved returns anywhere near this. She 
said her fund hadnt performed well during periods where the financial markets were strong 
and performing well. So, this has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It should be noted that ReAssure was not responsible for the selection of the particular fund 
Mrs Ws pension was invested in. This fund and investment type (a with-profits fund) was 
selected following advice from a third party. ReAssure is only responsible for the 
management of the fund and the administration of her pension.
Ms W has complained that ReAssure has mismanaged her pension fund. She has 
compared the performance of her fund with the performance of the largest 500 US 
companies over thirty years. Whilst acknowledging her disappointment with the 
performance of her pension fund, I dont think drawing a comparison with the performance 
of a different fund is helpful as it can provide a false impression. All funds perform 
differently depending on their type and asset base and it would be unsafe for me to rely on 
this in reaching my decision.
It is clear that Ms W is disappointed with the performance of her pension. But complaints 
about poor performance of investments are not something that our Service would usually 
look at. This is because businesses such as ReAssure have no control over market returns. 
But we can look at whether there has been any mishandling or maladministration of the 
fund which has caused losses to its value. And Ive not seen any evidence that this was the 
case here. 
ReAssure have provided the pension statements from 2005 to date, and these show the 
fund value, including the value of the bonuses applied. Without making any comment as to 
the performance of the fund within the market, there is no evidence to make me think it is 
likely the fund was mismanaged. 
It should also be noted that Ms W made no contributions to the fund from 1991. And her 
fund was subject to management charges throughout its term which wouldve reduced its 
value. The terms of Ms Ws policy sets out the charges its entitled to apply to Ms Ws fund 
and Ive seen no suggestion the charges were applied incorrectly. The terms also set out 
how the final bonus when the policy matures will be calculated. Again, Ive not seen any 
evidence to show ReAssure has applied bonuses or charges incorrectly.
Ms Ws unhappiness with the performance of her funds isnt evidence in itself that ReAssure 
has done anything wrong. And Im not aware of the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, having any concerns about the way ReAssure manages its pension funds. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Ms W was guaranteed her pension would provide certain 
returns. And whilst I sympathise with Ms W her pension hasnt performed as she hoped, Ive 
not seen any evidence that persuades me ReAssure has mismanaged Ms Ws pension fund 
and should compensate her. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, Ive not upheld this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman