DRN-3144677
The complaint
Mrs B, through her representative, complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH), lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information provided by LAH here is a brief table of approved loans. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Combined 
Repayment
1 25/08/2016 29/06/2017 45 £1,000.00 £40.00
2 29/06/2017 15/02/2018 33 £500.00 £25.00
3 29/06/2017 15/02/2018 33 £500.00 £50.00
break in lending of around six months
4 08/08/2018 16/01/2019 33 £500.00 £25.00
5 16/01/2019 14/08/2019 45 £1,000.00 £40.00
6 15/05/2019 12/02/2020 46 £500.00 £60.00
7 14/08/2019 01/07/2020 46 £1,500.00 £80.00
8 12/02/2020 outstanding 46 £750.00 £90.00
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that LAH should put things right 
for loans 1 to 3 and 6 to 8.  Our adjudicators reasoning was that when comparing Mrs Bs 
repayments for loans 1 to 3 they were high when compared with her income. So, there was 
a risk shed not be able to afford everything  her existing commitments plus loan 1. 
Loans 2 and 3 were taken together and essentially were a second £1,000 loan over 33 
weeks. Our adjudicator thought the same about loans 2 and 3 that the proportion of her 
income being paid over to LAH for those two loans was too high. 
Our adjudicator thought that the break in lending after loan 3 was repaid in February 2018 
was enough for loans 4 onwards to be treated as a new lending chain. Our adjudicator 
thought that as Loan 5 was still outstanding when Mrs B applied for loan 6 and again for 
loan 7 when loan 6 remained outstanding, then the combined amount due to LAH was going 
to swallow up too much of Mrs Bs income. 
Our adjudicator thought that, by loan 8, LAH the pattern of lending over the time Mrs B had 
been indebted to LAH was such that it ought to have realised and not lent to her. Our 
understanding is that Loan 8 remains outstanding. 
LAH said that 
- it disagrees with the rationale for loans 1 to 3
- it disagrees with the rationale for loans 6 and 7 and said that Mrs Bs situation had 
improved 
- it disagrees with the pattern of lending uphold for loan 8. 
Mrs Bs representative has acknowledged the view and has not disagreed with our 
adjudicators outcome. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
 LAH was required to establish whether Mrs B could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
Loans 1 to 3 
Mrs B approached LAH as a new customer and usually Id be content with the idea that LAH 
relied purely on what she informed LAH was her financial position. But here, it was for a 
large sum - £1,000  and was due to cost her £40 a week for 45 weeks. And I have reviewed 
the application form details she gave to LAHs agent when she applied for loan 1, and her 
income was only £250 a week. £40 a week is a relatively high proportion of her income. That 
£40 plus the length of the term (almost a year) plus the fact that some information provided 
by Mrs B was inconclusive, then I think LAH ought to have been on alert to check some 
things. One example of what ought to have been checked is that Mrs B declared that she 
paid nothing towards the rent and so I think that ought to have been checked before lending. 
And using information I have about Mrs B, I know that in August 2016 Mrs B was committed 
to another home credit lender and that was costing her between £35 and £50 each week. 
Loans 2 and 3 were applied for together and it is not really explained by LAH as to why its 
agent approved her for two lots of £500 loans on the same day rather than one £1,000 loan. 
That may have made a difference to his assessment decision  I am unclear. But this time 
Mrs B had declared much the same income but in addition a tax credit, and that her husband 
gave her £100. However, her expenditure included rent this time of £60 a week. So, the 
additional £100 from her husband was not really income it was money towards the rent and 
maybe another household bill. This plus the fact that Mrs Bs repayments to LAH were £50 a 
week and so were higher than loan 1 leads me to agree with our adjudicator. And I know 
from records that we have about Mrs B, she was committed to another home credit lender at 
the same time for at least £35 each week. 
I note that LAH says: The rationale for upholding Loan 1-3 is due to the customer rate as a 
proportion of their income, which at the point of sale is 16%. You have considered this a 
significant proportion of their income which we disagree with. We have seen other decisions 
whereby the proportion of income has been accepted when its at 18%, and therefore we do 
not understand the rationale provided.
LAHs comparison across adjudicators views and decisions is not helpful. Each complaint is 
viewed individually. And as I have pointed out earlier, complainants with low incomes  such 
as Mrs B  are ones where even greater care ought to be shown before lending to them. So, 
for a large series of loans  such as these for loans 1 to 3  and with Mrs Bs declared 
income and outgoings, then I do consider that the percentage of income used to repay the 
LAH loans was significant. 
Loans 1 to 3 were unaffordable, alternatively on the cusp of being unaffordable, and on 
balance I dont think it was a responsible lending decision. 
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint for loans 1 to 3. Loans 4 and 5 
The gap in the lending relationship was enough to break that lending chain and I have 
approached loan 4 with that in mind. Mrs B has not disagreed with the outcome for loans 4 
and 5 and so I can consider them resolved. What I have noticed is that Loan 5 was only just 
affordable as LAHs own figures indicate that after repaying all her commitments plus her 
LAH loan 5 she was left with about £17 a week which is very tight. However, Mrs B has not 
disagreed with the outcome for loans 4 and 5 and so I mention this point as it is relevant 
when considering the next loan application Mrs B made. 
Loans 6 and 7
Mrs B applied to LAH for loan 6 when she was only a few months into repaying loan 5 and 
so loans 5 and 6 overlapped. That meant she was scheduled to be paying LAH £60 a week 
for a further period  likely 8 months if loans 5 and 6 had run their scheduled course. This 
was much more than the £25 a week for her first loan in this second lending chain (Loan 4). 
Mrs Bs reported income from the spreadsheet evidence LAH has provided shows that it had 
dropped to £236 a week and that is lower than when she was applying for loan 1 almost 
three years earlier. 
LAH says, at Loan 7 [Mrs Bs] financial situation is much improved with a change of job and 
increase in income.
But I have reviewed the information its agent captured in the application process for Loan 7 
and I do not consider that Mrs Bs situation had improved. 
The Loan 7 capital (or some of it) appeared to be used to repay loan 5 in August 2019. 
Mrs B applied for Loan 7 which was three times larger than loan 6 and she still had loan 6 to 
repay. The combined repayments for loans 6 and 7 amounted to £80 a week at this stage 
and its clear she was becoming more and more indebted to LAH as the loan approvals went 
on. So, I think that its likely she was unable to afford that £80 a week. 
Mrs B had declared a larger income of around £371 (meaning larger than what she had 
declared for loan 6), but her outgoings were around £319 (excluding rent) and then she had 
informed the agent that she was paying £52 to another lender as well. So  the figures 
indicate that without the new LAH loan 7 repayments, all her income had been used up to 
cover all her commitments. So, the additional cost of Loan 7 would have been unaffordable. 
I am satisfied that it was irresponsible to lend to Mrs B loans 6 and 7.
I have also looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending history with Mrs B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which LAH should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, LAH ought to have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mrs Bs case, I think that this point was reached by the last loan 
 loan 8.
Loan 8 was approved when Mrs B still had loan 7 to pay off and it overlapped with 
loan 7.  Leading up to this point I think that there had been enough for LAH to have 
been alerted to the need for additional checks and/or recognition of Mrs B being left 
with too little to comfortably pay these debts off. Mrs B was returning for loans, larger than previous ones. LAH ought to have realised 
it was more likely than not Mrs B was having to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Mrs Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed LAH. 
I think that Mrs B lost out because LAH continued to provide borrowing at that last loan 8 
because:
It had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Bs indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period.
the number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mrs Bs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, I am upholding the complaint about Mrs Bs complaint and LAH needs to put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mrs B from the first loan of the first loan chain 
(loan 1) and from the third loan in the second loan chain (loan 6), as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs B may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mrs B in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Mrs B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Mrs B loans 1 to 3 and loans 6 to 8.
If LAH has sold the outstanding debts LAH should buy these back if its able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If LAH is not able to buy the debts back then LAH should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs B towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
LAH has already refunded.B) LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs B which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LAH should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs B as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs B having made 
overpayments then LAH should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. LAH should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mrs B. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
LAH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B. LAH shouldnt pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal LAH have already written-off.
E) LAH should remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit file in relation to 
loans 1, 2, 3, 6, and 7. The overall pattern of Mrs Bs borrowing for loan 8 means any 
information recorded about it is adverse, so LAH should remove this loan entirely from 
Mrs Bs credit file. LAH do not have to remove loan 8 from Mrs Bs credit file until it has 
been repaid but LAH should remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint in part and I direct that S.D. Taylor 
Limited, trading as Loans at Home, does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman