DRN-4314047
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was unable to access his TransUnion credit report online, which in 
turn stopped him from using third party sites such as the government gateway site.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and so I wont go into too much 
detail here but will give a summary of events:
Mr W lost access to his online credit report through TransUnion in January 2022. This 
stopped him from being able to order a passport or check his state pension through the 
government gateway site, as they use TransUnion to complete identity validation checks. 
There were also other third-party sites he couldnt access because of this.
Mr W complained to TransUnion, they provided him with a hard copy of his report but wasnt 
able to assist him further with gaining access to his online credit report. They said there was 
no failing on their part and so didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service. TransUnion told our investigator they couldnt 
provide this service with a reason for Mr W not being able to access his online credit report 
as it would compromise their security measures. They also said they are not obliged to 
provide an online report and so maintained they had done nothing wrong.
During the course of the investigation Mr W says he spoke to TransUnion again and the 
agent told him he was failing as the email address he uses is linked to a third party. This 
caused Mr W to worry that someone other than him had access to his email account. Mr W 
provided evidence that the call took place, but TransUnion said they didnt have a copy of 
the call to provide to this service.
After much back and forth between this service and TransUnion over more than a year, they 
provided this service with some information that allowed the investigator to assist Mr W, so 
he could access hi credit report online. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ws complaint in summary he said:
TransUnions security measures are there to protect their customers and while there had 
been no failing of the system, he felt that TransUnion could have provided more assistance 
to help Mr W with this issue, rather than leaving him locked out and not knowing what to do 
for the best part of eighteen months. He asked TransUnion to pay Mr W £200 to recognise 
this. Mr W agreed with the investigators findings, but TransUnion did not, so the matter has 
now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. Having done so I am upholding this complaint 
and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator, Ill explain.
TransUnion have security measures in place to protect the information they hold about their 
customers. This is very important and, in principle, exactly what Id expect. In most cases 
this means that genuine customers are able to access their information online and their 
information is kept safe, but in some instances, as in Mr Ws case here, the system blocks 
genuine users from gaining access to their information.
In instances such as this TransUnions policy is to offer to send, upon proof of identity, a 
hard copy of the credit report to their customer so they can check if the details they are 
entering are correct. Mr W received his hard copy through the post, and this confirmed to 
him that he was, in fact answering all of his security questions correctly, leaving him even 
more confused as to why he couldnt access his information online. 
TransUnion say giving a hard copy of the credit file is enough for them to meet their 
obligations, as set out by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They are not 
obliged to provide an online service to their customers. And while this may be true, the fact 
that they do means that they should be treating all of their customers fairly and consistently. 
So, they should be offering assistance to those, who through no fault of their own, like Mr W 
find themselves unable to access the online service. Its not good enough to say some of 
their customers can use the online service and some cant. Especially when the impact is 
wider reaching than TransUnions own website and can stop consumers from being able to 
access third party services and do important things like ordering passports and checking 
state pensions or tax portals. 
As it stands, Im not satisfied that TransUnion did enough to assist Mr W when he found 
himself in this situation. I say this because TransUnion doesnt currently have a second-tier 
process in place to help their customers, as they feel this would compromise their security 
systems. However, I dont agree, there are lots of firms that use a second-tier system without 
compromising security. An example would be: If I log into my online banking app or 
telephone banking, and for whatever reason I dont get through the security steps. There is 
often a second stage where I can speak to someone in person who will go through another 
level of security and help me to gain access or reset the account. This is just an example 
and not the only thing that could be put in place to help.
To be absolutely clear I am not telling TransUnion to put in place a second-tier process as 
thats not my role. That is the role of the FCA. But I can say that without such a process in 
place, or any alternative to their customers, I cant say TransUnion have done all they can to 
help and support Mr W or others like him or treat them fairly. And but for the intervention of 
this service and the perseverance of the investigator this matter would still not be resolved 
for Mr W. Its very disappointing that TransUnion were reluctant to share information with this 
service to help resolve Mr Ws complaint, as they are required to do so under the rules set 
out by the FCA. And had they done so, the matter could have been resolved for Mr W much 
sooner and he wouldnt have been without access to his information for such a long time.
The confusion Mr W experienced in not being able to access the online report was further 
compounded when TransUnion told him his email address was linked to a third-party 
account, which could be the cause of the problem. Although, TransUnion havent been able 
to provide a copy of the call recording, Ive no reason to disbelieve what Mr W has said 
about this as he has provided evidence that the call took place. And he has expressed to us 
on a number of occasions the concerns he had over this and the worry it was causing him. 
TransUnion have now confirmed Mr Ws email address is not linked to any other account, Im satisfied this is the case and that Mr W was given this information incorrectly. But that 
doesnt take away the worry it caused to him.
In summary Mr W wasnt able to access his credit file online for almost eighteen months, this 
caused him a massive amount of inconvenience and worry, which could have been avoided 
had TransUnion provided a better service to him as their customer. This was compounded 
by him being given the incorrect information about his email address. To put things right here 
I think TransUnion should compensate Mr W for the poor service provided to him.
Putting things right
TransUnion should pay Mr W £200 for the lack of assistance provided to him during the time 
he was unable to access his credit file online and for the worry caused by the incorrect 
information given to him about his email address being linked to a third party.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and I 
require TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED trading as TransUnion to carry out 
the actions as set out under the Putting things right section of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman