DRN-1754338
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a loan with Nationwide in July 2000. At the same time they bought a 
PPI policy which would have covered the repayments on their loan for up to 12 months at a 
time if Mr D was made redundant, or for up to the remaining term of the loan if Mr D couldnt 
work due to an accident or sickness. It also provided life cover for the outstanding balance.
The cost of the policy was added to the loan and Mr and Mrs D paid interest on it.
Mr and Mrs D say they were told the PPI was part of the loan and that they had to take it. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs D 
disagree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs D have told us that they applied for the loan in a meeting in a branch of 
Nationwide. They say that the advisor told them that the loan would come with PPI, just like 
their last loan. They say they were told they had to take it, and that as they felt under 
pressure they didnt push it any further. 
In fact, the loan and PPI werent sold in a face to face meeting in branch. Nationwide has 
provided evidence that Mr and Mrs D responded to a guaranteed acceptance mailshot and 
the sale took place over the phone. 
This makes it difficult for me to wholly accept Mr and Mrs Ds recollections of the sale.
Nationwide has provided the call script which was in use around the time of sale. If followed, 
it makes it clear that the PPI is optional. I have no evidence to suggest the script wasnt 
followed. 
After the loan and PPI were agreed over the phone Mr and Mrs D were sent a copy of the 
loan agreement to sign and return. Nationwide has provided a copy of the original. It 
presents the PPI as a separate, optional product. Mr and Mrs D have both signed this form. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative says that as Nationwide say it would always strongly advise 
customers to take PPI that this amounts to making it compulsory. I disagree. By definition, to 
strongly advise means that there must be a choice. 
On the evidence available to me I am satisfied it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs D 
bought the PPI understanding they had a choice about it.
Nationwide says it didnt give Mr and Mrs D a personal recommendation about taking the 
PPI and the call script would support this. This means it didnt have to take reasonable steps 
to make sure it was right for Mr and Mrs D  it was up to Mr and Mrs D to decide if it was 
suitable for them. But Nationwide did need to make sure Mr and Mrs D had all the 
information available to them that they needed to make their decision. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt provide all of this information to Mr and Mrs D. But that 
doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I need to think about 
whether Mr and Mrs D would have acted differently if theyd had all the information. Looking 
at Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time I think that it was suitable for them, and so if 
they had been given all the necessary information it wouldnt have made a difference to their 
decision to buy it. I say this because:
Mr D, whom the policy covered, was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected by any 
terms which might have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, 
such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr D had sick pay from his employer. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
this and for up to the entire remaining term of the loan  which potentially was much 
longer than his full sick pay wouldve lasted;
Mr D wouldve been entitled to some redundancy pay. But, again, the PPI wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and potentially for up to 12 months at a time;
Mr and Mrs D say they had savings equivalent to the amount of the loan which they could have used if Mr D couldnt work. I havent seen any evidence of this, but in any 
case, the PPI would have meant that they could use those savings for other 
uninsured expenses if Mr D hadnt been able to work; 
If Mr and Mrs D had cancelled the PPI early they would have received a pro-rata 
refund of the premiums, so they wouldnt have lost out.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs D.
The cost of the PPI was clearly set out, including the interest payable, on the credit 
agreement.
On balance, on the information available to me, I dont think Mr and Mrs D lost out as a 
result of anything Nationwide might have done wrong. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, so it follows that Nationwide Building Society 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman