DRN-2836311
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Lowell Portfolio I Ltd, saying they harassed him for 
unenforceable debts and falsely reported things on his credit file.
What happened
Between 2005 and 2016, Lowell purchased a number of Mr Ns debts. Some of these had 
already defaulted and some had not. For some years, Mr N made payments to these 
accounts through a debt management company.
In April 2020, Mr N explained to Lowell that, because of the effects of the pandemic, he 
could no longer make these payments. Lowell agreed to put all the accounts involved on 
hold. But they didnt take account of this in their credit file reporting, so on Mr Ns file it was 
recorded that he was missing his payments on his non-defaulted accounts.
In October 2020, Mr N asked Lowell for a copy of the relevant credit agreements, arguing 
that without these the debts were unenforceable and so Lowell shouldnt have been taking 
payments for them. He also complained about the missed payment markers on his credit file. 
And he says Lowell were harassing him and their contact was menacing.
Lowell disagreed that theyd harassed Mr N, saying theyd honoured his repayment plans 
and had put things on hold while he was facing difficulties. Lowell explained that theyd 
reported the defaulted accounts correctly, but agreed they shouldnt have registered missed 
payments on the non-defaulted accounts while they were on hold. They apologised for that 
and, as compensation, wrote off all of Mr Ns accounts, totalling around £14,000.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They explained only a court could decide 
if the debts were enforceable  but even if they werent, the debts still existed and so it was 
fair for Lowell to ask for repayments. They said Lowell had treated Mr N appropriately and 
they couldnt see where theyd harassed him. They agreed Lowell should not have recorded 
the non-defaulted accounts as having missed payments while they were on hold, but felt that 
writing all the accounts off was more than fair compensation.
Mr N didnt agree. He felt Lowell had acted deplorably in recording missed payments. He 
asked for an ombudsman to review the case afresh, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain first that only a court can decide whether a debt is legally enforceable or not 
 thats not something I have the power to determine. With that said, even if these accounts 
had not been enforceable, that would only mean that Lowell couldnt take certain legal action 
 the debts would still exist and Lowell were still allowed to ask Mr N to repay them.
There does not appear to be any dispute that these were Mr Ns genuine accounts, and so 
that these were debts he genuinely owed. So whether they were enforceable or not, in this 
case I dont think Lowell did anything wrong by asking for payments or accepting payments.
Ive looked at Lowells communication with Mr N, and I cant see that theyve corresponded 
with him excessively or unreasonably. For example, they were clear that they were happy to 
work around Mr Ns circumstances and only wanted him to make repayments that were 
affordable and realistic for him. They were also happy to work with his debt management 
company instead. And they regularly put things on hold in light of Mr Ns circumstances or to 
give him breathing space. So I cant see that Lowell acted inappropriately there.
Both sides accept that Lowell did get things wrong by reporting some of these accounts as 
being behind on their payments, when they were actually on hold in light of Mr Ns situation. 
I know that Mr N feels strongly about what happened, and I understand where hes coming 
from. Ive thought very carefully about this point, taking into account all the stress and 
inconvenience involved for Mr N.
When a business gets something wrong, we often tell them to compensate their customer  
to acknowledge their mistake and the impact it had. In terms of the amount of compensation, 
its worth bearing in mind that were not here to fine or punish businesses.
To resolve things here, Lowell closed all of Mr Ns accounts  writing off around £14,000 of 
debt for him. They agreed not to chase him for those debts anymore or take payments, and 
they removed them from his credit file. Ultimately, this is a far larger value of compensation 
than what I would have awarded. So while I accept that Mr N feels most aggrieved about 
what happened, I cannot fairly tell Lowell to do anything further, as I think theyve already 
done more than enough to put their error right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman