DRN-4209213
The complaint
Mr T complains about the vehicle tax charges in relation to a car that was supplied through a 
hire agreement with Ald Automotive Limited (ALD). 
What happened
Mr T hired a car through a hire agreement from ALD.
 
Mr T complained to ALD about the increase to the road fund licence for his hired vehicle, as 
a result of an increase to the P11D value of the car. Mr T said he felt it was unfair that he 
had to pay it, that he wasnt given the appropriate notice and believes ALD should absorb 
the charge for this.
In February 2023, ALD issued their final response to Mr Ts complaint. They upheld it in part. 
ALD explained that it was the manufacturer that increased the P11D value of the car in 
excess of £40,000 which pushed it past the threshold for a higher road fund licence fee. ALD 
said they acted fairly by passing the fee on to Mr T. However, ALD accepted that they didnt 
give Mr T a minimum of 30 days notice before deducting the increased amount so agreed to 
refund the amount to him. 
ALD however, said that Mr T would be liable for future road fund licence fees at the higher 
rate.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr T brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr T 
said the impact of having to pay a higher rate caused him financial stress and uncertainty.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. Our investigator said 
ALD should pay Mr T £100 in addition to the refund of £365 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. Our investigator also concluded that the higher road fund licence 
shouldnt apply.
Mr T accepted this recommendation. ALD however didnt respond. So, the case has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence provided, I arrived at a different outcome to our 
investigator. I wrote to both parties to explain why I was proposing not to uphold the 
complaint. I also gave each party an opportunity to comment, prior to me issuing my final 
decision.
ALD accepted my proposed outcome. Mr T didnt. He said if the vehicle was always in the 
higher tax bracketthe Road Fund Licence fee should also have been calculated at the 
higher amount. It cannot simultaneously be in the higher tax bracket and attract a lower 
Road Fund Licence fee.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement. As such, this service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. 
Mr Ts complaint revolves around having to pay an increased road fund licence, which is 
more commonly referred to as road tax, so to keep things simple Ive referred to it as that for 
the remainder of this decision
According to the road tax information provided on gov.uk, cars registered on or after 1 April 
2017 must pay a first-year tax rate of which the calculation is based on the vehicles CO2 
emissions. The subsequent years tax is a flat rate based on its fuel type. However, it also 
says that vehicles with a list price in excess of £40,000 would have to pay an additional 
amount annually from year two, for the following five years.
Mr T and ALD have referred to the P11d value of the vehicle, however I think there appears 
to be some confusion between a P11d vehicle value and the list price. The P11d value tends 
to be a combination of factors like the vehicles list price, any delivery charges and add ons. 
However, according to gov.uk the additional road tax charge, from year two onwards for 
vehicles in excess of £40,000, is calculated based on the list price of a vehicle.
ALD have confirmed that the current vehicles value is in excess of £40,000. Mr T has also 
confirmed that on his online contract confirmation the value was also in excess of £40,000. 
So, I think its likely from the evidence provided that the vehicle was always valued at that 
amount.
In his response to my initial findings Mr T suggests that the road tax would have been higher 
in the first year, had the car been priced correctly. However, as the first years road tax 
charge would differ to the subsequent years, Im satisfied that the additional charge applied 
in the second year would not be applicable in the first year, and so was correct.
The terms of Mr Ts hire agreement say:
If it is reasonable to do so we can vary the Regular Payments by giving you at least 30 days 
written notice solely to the extent necessary to respond to a variation in the following:
Any change in Vehicle Excise Duty, VAT or any other applicable tax; or;
Any increase in the cost of the Vehicle to us, whether due to import tariffs, other 
statutory charges and/or manufacturer price increases. So, Im satisfied that the road tax charge applied to Mr Ts repayments were in accordance 
with the terms of the hire agreement, and was applied fairly by ALD.
All things considered, Im persuaded from the evidence provided that the cars list price was 
in excess of £40,000 when it was supplied and so was always subject to the additional road 
tax charge. 
As Ive found that Mr Ts car was liable for the additional charge, I think its fair that it was 
passed on to him by ALD. However, I acknowledge ALD gave Mr T insufficient notice of the 
charge and so chose to refund the amount on this occasion. I think the refund of £365 is a 
fair recognition of any inconvenience caused to Mr T. And so, in the circumstances I wont 
be instructing ALD to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
Having considered everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable, in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr TYs complaint against Ald 
Automotive Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman