DRN-4181223
The complaint
Mrs F complains her account with PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) was limited 
and then closed. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
For me to say PayPal did something wrong, Id need to be satisfied that they failed to 
act within the terms of the accounts User Agreement. Or, if I feel like they did work 
within these, that it was unfair for it to limit and close the account in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case. 
Its common industry practice for firms to monitor accounts for activity which may fall 
outside their risk appetite, and accounts will often be restricted to prevent potential 
losses while carrying out a review. When PayPal decided to limit Mrs Fs account, it 
did so as there was evidence Mrs F had been using the account against one of the 
terms in the User Agreement.
Mrs F did sign up to a User Agreement when she opened an account with PayPal. 
Having looked through this Agreement carefully, Ive found that PayPal have acted 
within the terms of the Agreement when it took the decision to limit Mrs Fs account 
and then close it.
PayPal have supplied information to show why it limited and then closed the account, 
and although I cant disclose this, Ive reviewed the information and Im satisfied 
PayPal havent acted unfairly or against the User Agreement and terms of the 
account. 
Although I appreciate Mrs F is likely to be frustrated that she doesnt know the reason for the 
limitation and closure, I hope she can take some assurance in the fact Ive seen these 
reasons and Im satisfied PayPal have acted fairly.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman