DRN-4277444
The complaint
Mr G complains that HDI Global Specialty SE rejected a claim on his business protection 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to HDI, that includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr G has an insurance policy which provides cover in relation to his business. As well as 
covering the premises, the policy includes cover for a number of things including the loss of 
money while in transit and personal belongings.
Mr G made a claim after an incident where a bag containing cash and other items was stolen 
from his van while it was being loaded. 
HDI declined the claim because theres an exclusion for loss of money from a vehicle which 
is left unattended and not under the observation of someone able to observe or prevent any 
attempt to interfere with the vehicle.
Mr G complained that this exclusion was unfair. He said while his wife and another family 
member were loading goods into the back of the van someone opened one of the doors at 
the front of the van and took the bag. They were with the van at all times, so it wasnt left 
unattended.
As HDI wouldnt change its decision Mr G complained to this service. Our investigator 
thought it wasnt fair to apply the exclusion and asked HDI to reconsider the claim and pay 
compensation to Mr G of £100. 
HDI disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. 
The relevant section of the policy provides cover for loss of money while in transit. But 
theres an exclusion for loss in a vehicle which is unattended and not under the observation 
of someone able to observe or prevent any attempt to interfere with the vehicle. HDI says 
this applies here. The issue for me to decide is whether its reasonable for HDI to apply that 
exclusion in the circumstances of this claim. 
If the term is applied literally in every case, there would be no cover for any situation where 
there is no-one able to observe or prevent any attempt to interfere with the vehicle. If the 
van had been left unattended I can see how it would be reasonable to apply the exclusion. 
But Mr Gs wife and daughter were at the back of the vehicle. They didnt leave it 
unattended. I appreciate they didnt see the person taking the bag from the front of the van, 
but its not clear what more they could have done in the circumstances. Mr G points out that 
its impossible for someone to keep their eyes on everything happening at the front while 
they are loading goods inside the back of van. 
Applying this exclusion strictly would mean having someone effectively on guard at the front 
of the van while they are loading the back. I dont think thats reasonable. So I dont think its 
fair for the claim to be subject to the exclusion here.
HDI hasnt disputed what happened. It said We do not doubt the incident occurred or that 
you are the victim of a crime, however we are bound by your policy wording which in these 
circumstances means the claim for the money cannot be accepted. I understand HDI 
agreed to settle the claim for one of the stolen items, up to the policy limit of £250, but not for 
the cash. From the evidence I have, its not clear why part of the claim would be settled but 
not the claim for the cash. 
While HDI might want further evidence of the amount of cash involved, that doesnt mean 
the claim for cash should be rejected entirely. 
Given that the HDI accepts the incident occurred, and on the basis the exclusion shouldnt 
be applied, then the claim should be settled in line with the policy terms subject to, for 
example, evidence of the amount of cash that was taken. I wouldnt be able to determine the 
amount to be paid in relation to the cash claim on the evidence I have before me. Its for 
Mr G to provide the evidence he has in support of his claim, which HDI can then consider.
Taking everything into account I consider this a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Mr G was upset by the way the claim was handled and the decision not to cover the loss of 
cash. Making the claim would always have required him to correspond with HDI and provide 
evidence. But he was put to unnecessary trouble as a result of the claim being rejected and 
having to challenge the decision. I agree a payment of £100 would be fair to acknowledge 
this. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct HDI Global Specialty SE to 
settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms including any excess and 
indemnity limit; and
pay £100 to Mr G to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman