DRN-3544213
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) has wrongly 
recorded adverse credit information against her name.
What happened
In June 2014 Mrs F took out a finance agreement for a new car. She was to make monthly 
payments of over £300.
Mrs F fell into financial difficulties and decided in August 2015 to end the agreement. She 
had made all contractual payments on time and in full at that point. VWFS agreed to Mrs Fs 
request and took the car back. This left a shortfall on the agreement of over £8,000.
In October 2015 Mrs F entered into an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) with her 
creditors, including VWFS. Over the following years she made modest payments to VWFS. 
The IVA was completed in early 2021, and the supervisors report of 20 April 2021 indicated 
that VWFS had received around 7p in the £. The payments that had been made while the 
IVA was in force had reduced the balance due to VWFS to just over £7,000.
Miss F says that VWFS did not record anything on her credit file until the IVA had been 
completed. She says that other creditors had recorded defaults from around October 2015. 
They were removed after six years, but the information that VWFS has recorded remains on 
her file.
VWFS says that it did not record a default. It was not a default to terminate the finance 
agreement; in doing so, Mrs F was exercising a right included in the agreement, not 
breaching it. The account was, it says, closed when the IVA came to an end, and the 
information recorded reflects that. It also reflects that payments were not made on time, not 
that the account was defaulted.
Miss F referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. She noted that VWFS had said the IVA had started in February 2021 and 
been completed a few months later. She thought however that VWFS had been aware of the 
IVA from 2015. VWFS should therefore have recorded a default shortly after that. Had it 
done so, the information would have expired by now. The investigator recommended that 
VWFS remove any adverse information and pay Mrs F £250 in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
VWFS did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
I did that and, because I thought I would reach a different conclusion from that reached by 
the investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
I noted first of all that the information registered against Mrs Fs name did not indicate that a 
default had been registered. Rather, the entries (-6) showed late payments. The account 
had also been reported as Delinquent, but that would usually indicate that payments were 
late, not that a lender had defaulted an account. 
I thought therefore that the information recorded by VWFS reflected the true position. It had 
not defaulted the account, and the credit information did not suggest that it had. 
I therefore went on to consider whether, in the circumstances, VWFS should have defaulted 
the account. I noted that this service generally takes the view that it is good practice to 
default an account when three or more payments have been missed or where only token 
payments are being made. And I commented that defaulting an account could lead to 
enforcement or other action and so may not always be appropriate.   
In this case, however, I noted that a payment plan had been agreed and was followed  
through the IVA. The payments , while very much lower than those due under the finance 
agreement, were not token. Mrs F had explained that other lenders had registered defaults, 
but I did not believe that meant that VWFS should have done the same. 
Mrs F did not accept my provisional decision. She said, in summary, that she had not agreed 
a payment plan with VWFS and that the payments she had made through the debt charity 
had been token payments only. She said too that VWFS had not received any payments for 
more than six months after termination of the finance agreement.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, I have not changed the view set out in my provisional decision. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision, the information recorded by VWFS was true and 
accurate. It reflected the fact that the account had not been defaulted, but that payments 
were late and were less than the amount that was set out in the finance agreement. In the 
circumstances, I do not believe I can fairly say that VWFS was under a duty to default the 
agreement, even though it may have been within its rights to do so. I think it would have 
been inconsistent for VWFS to have defaulted the agreement at the same time Mrs F was 
trying to set up an IVA with the help of a debt charity. It would also have been inconsistent 
with the termination by Mrs F of the agreement, which was not an act of default but was 
done in line with the terms of the agreement. 
I would comment as well that, even if VWFS had defaulted the agreement, it is by no means 
certain that Mrs Fs position would be any better than it is. For example, VWFS might have 
taken enforcement action with a view to recovering more of the debt owed by Mrs F, and it is 
by no means certain that the IVA would have been effective.   
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited  to do anything more to resolve Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman