DRN-3327706
The complaint
Mr and Ms G complain about the way AWP P&C SA has handled their travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Ms G took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, this was 
underwritten by AWP. They booked a trip abroad, departing on 9 March 2020.
 
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Subsequently, on 23 March 2020, the FCDO 
instructed all UK citizens travelling abroad to return home. 
Mr and Ms Gs original return flight, which was scheduled for 26 March 2020, was cancelled 
by the airline and so they had to purchase new airline tickets to come home. These new 
flights meant they came home three days earlier than planned. Upon their return to the UK, 
Mr and Ms G submitted a claim for their expenses to AWP.
AWP refused the claim. It referred to the policy terms and conditions which state that cover 
isnt provided for pandemics and, as the Covid-19 outbreak had been declared a pandemic, 
AWP said the claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Ms G were unhappy with this response. They said that they contacted AWP before 
making the claim and that they were told that because they travelled before this event was 
declared as a pandemic, they would be covered. They complained to AWP and brought the 
matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that the claim wasnt covered due to the 
exclusion on the policy relating to costs incurred as a result of a pandemic. So, she didnt 
think AWP had been wrong to decline the claim. She noted that AWP did give Mr and Ms G 
incorrect information about the cover under the policy but, as Mr and Ms G would have 
needed to purchase new flights in order to come regardless of the advice provided, she 
didnt think it was reasonable to ask AWP to pay these costs. However, she did recommend 
that AWP pay £200 in compensation for not managing Mr and Ms Gs expectations 
surrounding the claim.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators opinion, but Mr and Ms G did. They disagreed with 
what was said, saying they also called AWP from abroad and were told they would be 
covered. They said that, if they had been told there was no cover, they wouldnt have bought 
the new flights but would have returned home on free repatriation flights available from the 
government. As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
promptly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Ms Gs complaint.
Has the claim been declined correctly?
The policy provides cover for curtailment  which is when the trip is cut short - for certain 
listed events. Included in the list of covered events is where you return home as The 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised against travel to your journey 
destination  so it would seem that cover for this type of event is included under the policy 
Mr and Ms G purchased.
The policy also contains a list of general exclusions  which apply to all sections of the policy 
coverage. The relevant part of the policy states that following:
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
The following exclusions apply to the whole of your policy:
2 Any epidemic or pandemic.
The cause of the FCDO advice against travel was the ongoing situation surrounding the 
Covid-19 outbreak, which was declared a pandemic on 11 March 2020. Im persuaded that 
the cause of Mr and Ms Gs claim was the pandemic  and this is excluded from cover. So, 
Im satisfied that AWP has fairly declined the claim. 
AWP service
Mr and Ms G contacted AWP before making the claim. They have said AWP told them they 
were covered for these additional costs. As a result, Mr and Ms G submitted their claim, 
which was subsequently declined. 
I have listened to the call Ms G had with AWP in late March 2020 following their return to the 
UK and during that call she was told that the pandemic exclusion wouldnt apply to her case 
as she had travelled prior to the pandemic being declared. I can imagine it was a great relief 
to hear from AWP that they would be able to consider the claim, regardless of that exclusion. 
So, I can understand how it would have been quite distressing for Mr and Ms G to then be 
told that they wouldnt be receiving reimbursement of their costs. AWP should have done 
more to ensure that it gave correct advice. 
Mr and Ms G think they should receive a refund of their additional flight costs. They have told 
us they also called from abroad and were told they were covered. Mr and Ms G said they 
would have waited for free government flights if they had been told there wasnt any cover 
for this cost.
 
Ive noted Mr and Ms Gs comments, and Ive thought about this point carefully. I havent 
been given a copy of the call Mr and Ms G say they made from abroad, so I dont know what 
was said in this conversation. However, I would point out that the repatriation flights 
arranged by the UK government were not provided free of charge  Mr and Ms G would still 
have needed to pay to come home on one of these flights. If they had been advised at this 
point that there was no cover under the policy, Im of the opinion they would still have 
incurred additional costs to return home. Taking this into account, Im not persuaded that 
AWP needs to reimburse their additional flight costs.Our investigator considered that AWP should pay £200 compensation to Mr and Ms G for 
the poor advice it gave to them and for not managing their expectations. I think that is a 
reasonable figure based on the distress this situation has caused to Mr and Ms G. And as 
AWP hasnt provided any response to our investigators opinion to explain why this shouldnt 
be awarded, I see no reason to alter that sum. 
Putting things right
AWP needs to do the following:
Pay Mr and Ms G £200 compensation 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, Im partially upholding this complaint.
AWP P&C SA needs to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman