DRN-3599381
The complaint
Mrs C, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that she was   
mis-sold an investment by Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mrs C invested £72,000 across several bonds with Santander, between April 2001 and     
July 2004.
They were surrendered at maturity following their minimum investment term of either 5 or     
5.5 years. Santander have said that Mrs C received £87,068.07 from the bonds. This 
represented growth of over 20% over that period. 
In December 2021, Mrs C complained to Santander through the CMC. They said that the 
advice given to Mrs C to invest in these bonds wasnt suitable.
Santander responded to say that they no longer held the original sale documentation. 
However, they were satisfied that the advice given had been suitable for Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time. 
Mrs C remained unhappy and so the CMC brought the complaint to our service for an 
independent review. Our investigator looked into it. She felt that on a balance of 
probabilities, based on the limited information available, there wasnt enough to say that the 
bonds had been mis-sold. 
The CMC responded to say that there was enough information including testimony from   
Mrs C, to establish her circumstances and needs at the time. They didnt feel the advice was 
suitable as there was not enough diversification and the bonds did not represent a 
reasonable enough chance of success. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Unfortunately, due to the amount of time that has passed since Mrs C took the investments 
out, there is limited information available. As the Investigator explained, businesses 
shouldnt keep hold of information indefinitely and these policies matured over ten years ago, 
with the last in 2010. 
I therefore have to base my decision on what I do know about Mrs Cs circumstances at the 
time and what I think was most likely regarding her needs from these investments. Mrs C 
has made us aware through her CMC that she was employed and earning approximately 
£20,000 p.a. She owned her own home, without a mortgage. Her CMC has made us aware 
that she had some limited previous investment experience. 
These bonds carried a minimum capital protection, as long as they remained invested for 
their minimum term. This was between 5 and 5  years. I havent seen anything to conclude 
that Mrs C should havent been sold bonds with such a minimum term and I am glad to see 
that they all remained invested for at least this period. I also havent seen anything to 
conclude that there was an affordability issue at the point of sale, and this is supported by 
Mrs C not surrendering the bonds until maturity. 
Mrs Cs CMC has let us know that she was willing to take some risk with this investment. As 
I said, the bonds had a capital protection element as long as invested for the minimum term. 
So, I dont believe they carried a level of risk that Mrs C wasnt able to take. And I am 
satisfied from the information provided that the underlying funds were diversified enough 
within Mrs Cs risk profile. 
Mrs Cs CMC has also mentioned alternatives that should have instead been advised to   
Mrs C. This is namely, that deposit accounts and fixed rate products with zero risk should 
have been recommended, considering the rates they were paying at the time. However, I 
dont agree there was no chance of success for this product and I am glad to see that it did 
produce a return of over 20%. Whilst there might have been suitable alternatives, it doesnt 
make the advice given here unsuitable. 
In summary, I havent seen enough to conclude that the advice given to Mrs C was 
unsuitable. The capital protection nature of the bonds meant they didnt carry too much risk 
for her and it was a diversified product. I also dont conclude that there was an issue for    
Mrs C with affordability or investing for the minimum terms these bonds carried. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman