DRN-2544620
The complaint
Mr R complains Save & Prosper now Countrywide Assured Plc (Countrywide) mis-sold him 
a pension policy. He says he took out the policy on the basis the adviser had told him half of 
his commission would be diverted into his pension fund, but this did not transpire to be the 
case.
What happened
In 1992, Mr R took advice from Save & Prosper to take out a Small Self-Administered 
Scheme (SSAS) as he didnt have access to an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). Mr R 
was one of the directors in a partnership.
Mr R says the adviser explained his expected returns and said that if Mr R took the product, 
he would forgo 50% of his commission and put it into the pension. This wold enhance the 
value of the pension fund and Mr R says he agreed to proceed with the pension advice on 
this basis.
In November 1992, Mr R raised concerns with Save & Prosper as he discovered the adviser 
has in fact received 100% of the commission and hadnt directed half into the pension fund.
In response to Mr Rs complaint, Save & Prosper at the time said this was a breach of a 
commitment made by the adviser, but it had no evidence of this agreement and it didnt 
agree this was a misinterpretation of the key documents as there was no reference to the 
adviser and his commission. As such it didnt accept any responsibility and referred Mr R 
directly to the adviser. Mr R says he tried to contact the adviser without success.
Mr R says he is now raising this issue due to recent publicity around PPI mis-selling and he
wondered if there was something similar for pension mis-selling. He complained again to 
Countrywide who took over Save and Prosper.
On 12 October 2020, Countrywide issued their final response to Mr R. As part of its
investigations, it looked into the suitability of the advice as well as the issue regarding
commission. It said the sale of the SSAS was suitable as Mr R didnt have access to an 
occupational pension scheme at the time.
Countrywide explained that the projections and illustrations Mr R received wouldve been 
based on him paying his premiums until the age of 60. But only £2,500 was paid when it was 
taken out and no further payments made, which effected the value of the pension.
With regards to commission, Countrywide said that Save & Prosper did contact the adviser
in 1992 when Mr R initially raised the complaint. But the adviser said he didnt agree to an 
arrangement. They say state the risks and costs associated with the policy were made clear 
in a Sales Brochure, Terms and Conditions and Key Features documents and so it didnt 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Dissatisfied, Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr R. She looked at all the documentation available 
and wasnt able to find anything related to an agreement that the adviser would pay half of 
his commission into the plan. She didnt doubt Mr Rs recollections of the conversation as 
she could see he had raised it very shortly after taking out the plan. But in the absence of 
any further information she wasnt able to uphold Mr Rs complaint and didnt agree it would 
be fair and reasonable to hold Country wide responsible for what the adviser may have said 
regarding his commission.
Mr R disagreed. He accepts there isnt any information available and points out if there were, 
he would have been in a much stronger legal position. Mr R feels strongly that as the adviser 
was an employee of Save and Prosper, it has a duty of care to him as a customer and a 
responsibility for what the adviser promised and failed to do. He asks for an ombudsman 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the information from both parties afresh. Having done so Ive reached the 
same view as the investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr R, Ill 
explain why.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Where the evidence available is unclear or uncertain Im required to reach a decision on a 
balance of probabilities. 
Mr R doesnt dispute the advice was suitable nor that he was provided with the appropriate 
documents at the time. He refers to the promise he was made by the adviser to forgo half of 
his commission and pay it into the plan which he failed to do, and he asks that Countrywide 
be held accountable for that failure as the adviser was an employee.
I have looked carefully at the documentation, and as Mr R is aware there isnt any evidence 
regarding the commission but as the investigator said, I think the fact that Mr R raised this 
issue very shortly after he took out the pension plan indicates this was more likely than not 
something that was discussed at the time. But that was ultimately a private conversation 
between the adviser and Mr R, and when Save and Prosper investigated Mr Rs concerns in 
1992, he denied any such agreement took place.
The duty of care from Save and Prosper to Mr R was in the suitability of the advice, the 
provision of the key features of the pension plan and the disclosure of all relevant risks and 
benefits alongside any costs and charges. Mr R agrees all this was provided and the plan 
was suitable for him.
It is regrettable that the Mr R has been left I a situation where it the advisers word against 
his, but  as Im unable to find any evidence of an error made by Countrywide I dont agree its fair and reasonable to hold Countrywide responsible for whether or not he adviser agreed 
to forgo some of his commission payment.
I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed but Im unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman