DRN-3885826
The complaint
Ms M complains that the advisor who was managing her mortgage application through First 
Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network (First Complete) failed to respond to 
her requests for contact for some time, so she missed out on a lower interest rate.
What happened
Ms M told us she made a mortgage application in 2021 with the support of a mortgage 
advisor who works under the umbrella of First Complete. Her offer was expiring in early 
2022, so she sought help from First Complete to secure a new one. But she told us that the 
advisor delayed in contacting her, so that Ms M ended up missing out on the fixed interest 
rate deal she wanted.
Ms M said shed complained to First Complete, but all First Complete said was that shed 
submitted her documents too late. She sent in the documents needed for her application just 
after 6pm, on 16 February 2022. But the lender shed applied to had stopped offering the 
deal shed applied for, at 5pm on the very same day. 
Ms M didnt think this was fair, because shed been trying to contact her advisor since 8 
February. The advisor wasnt responding, and Ms M said if this advisor had spent just five 
minutes with her on the phone to deal with her one outstanding concern, then her application 
would have been in earlier, before the deal she wanted was pulled. Ms M said the advisor 
hadnt responded to her emails, messages or calls for nine days. 
Ms M didnt know her application hadnt been successful at the time. She asked for updates 
on her application after 16 February. (Her advisor has said she was out of the office unwell 
from 17 to 21 February, although she did respond to a message from Ms M on 17 February, 
and didnt indicate she was unavailable then.) Ms M said that it wasnt until 1 March that she 
was told her application hadnt been submitted. She said she was told then that her advisor 
thought she was still waiting for some documents. 
Ms M said the advisor then told her that the available mortgage rate for her had gone up 
from 1.46% fixed over five years, to 1.71%. Ms M said she felt she had no alternative but to 
make this application. However, she also complained to First Complete. She wanted it to 
meet the additional mortgage costs she would face over the next five years. Ms Ms 
mortgage payments, at the lower rate, would have been £737.83 per month. But she would 
now have to pay £766.20 per month. Ms M said that over a five year mortgage term this 
would cost her a little over £1,700 more. 
First Complete said it was clear that there was a delay in the advisor returning Ms Ms calls, 
but it said lenders can and do pull rates anytime they wish to, and they generally do this 
without telling advisors that the deal will finish that day. It said Ms Ms documents, required 
for her application, were only supplied after the deal she wanted had been pulled, so Ms M 
was too late to apply in any event. It wouldnt pay the additional costs Ms M was facing now.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that Ms M was rearranging 
a mortgage, having initially secured an offer in September 2021 which would expire before 
she could complete her purchase. Ms M spoke to her advisor on 7 February 2022, and her 
advisor recommended a mortgage on a rate of 1.46% fixed for five years. Ms M wanted to 
speak to her solicitor before going ahead, to check if changing lenders would affect her Help 
to Buy (HTB) application. The advisor sent Ms M a mortgage illustration following the call 
and asked her to upload documents to finalise this mortgage application.
Our investigator said that Ms M did seem to have spoken to her solicitor right away, but her 
solicitor wasnt able to reassure her, so Ms M wanted to speak to the advisor again. She 
tried to do so repeatedly. 
Our investigator said Ms M had evidenced her attempts to contact the advisor. On 8 
February she messaged the advisor, asking her to call. And she called the advisor on 8, 11 
and 15 February 2022. Ms M sent a further message on 15 February 2022 and an email on 
16 February 2022. But Ms Ms calls were unanswered, and the advisor didnt call her back 
until 16 February 2022. The advisor then sought more information for Ms M, and was able to 
provide her with the additional reassurance she wanted the same day. 
Ms M sent in the extra documents needed to finalise her application that evening. But we 
know that this lender had withdrawn its offer of a five year fixed interest rate of 1.46% at the 
end of that working day.
Ms M later secured an offer with the same lender, fixed for five years at 1.71%. 
Our investigator thought the call between Ms M and the advisor could have happened earlier 
and Ms M would have been able to submit the required documents to complete the 
application with her preferred lender before the 1.46% rate was withdrawn. Given Ms Ms 
eagerness to have a call so she could progress the application, our investigator thought it 
was reasonable to conclude that she would have submitted the documents in time once she 
had the reassurance she was looking for. So he thought it was fair and reasonable for First 
Complete to pay Ms M the difference between what her payments would have been on the 
1.46% rate and what shell pay on the 1.71% rate, over the five year fixed rate period.
Our investigator also said that, because theres some benefit to Ms M receiving this payment 
in advance of needing to meet these additional costs, he didnt think First Complete had to 
pay any further compensation for the poor service experience she has had.
Ms M accepted this view, but First Complete did not. It wrote back at length. It wanted to set 
out that the advisor hadnt been able to return Ms Ms calls earlier because of her workload, 
there was no malice involved. It said Ms M knew she hadnt sent all the documents needed 
to complete her application before 16 February. And it stressed that these documents were 
only finally uploaded after Ms Ms preferred lender had withdrawn the offer she wanted. 
First Complete queried when Ms M had been able to talk to her solicitor about her HTB loan, 
as it didnt know if she had done this before she tried to contact the advisor again (and so, 
presumably, First Complete didnt know if she would have been able to go ahead with her 
application then). 
First Complete said Ms M could have asked the HTB advisor for advice, but didnt seem to 
have done that. When she asked the mortgage advisor for reassurance, she had to go away 
and find the answer to the question  she wasnt as well placed as the HTB advisor to help 
Ms M. Alternatively, First Complete said Ms M could have asked her questions in one of the messages she sent to the advisor. And First Complete said that even on 16 February, Ms M 
hadnt decided before the call whether to go ahead with this particular lender. 
First Complete thought the actions of Ms M contributed to the fact the application was not 
submitted until 16 February, and the documents uploaded too late. It said there were other 
avenues available to her to be able to find out the information she required in regard to the 
change of lender and the HTB product, not just its mortgage advisor. And it wanted us to 
bear in mind that no one knew the rate was going to be pulled.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said Ms M told us she had spoken to her solicitor 
on 7 February, thats why she then wanted to speak to the advisor. Our investigator thought 
that was reasonable. He said the advisor had told Ms M she would call back, but didnt. So it 
was reasonable for Ms M to continue to try to speak to her, rather than direct her enquiry 
elsewhere. And our investigator also noted that, although the advisor would have other 
clients to assist, Ms Ms repeated efforts at contacting her did indicate that she felt there was 
some urgency to this. 
As First Complete wanted this case to be considered by an ombudsman, it was then passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Like our investigator, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ms M to wish to speak to her 
advisor once more, before she put in her mortgage application  and I would have said this 
even if Ms M had been able to obtain the information and reassurance about her HTB 
application that she wanted elsewhere. I can see that Ms M tried to speak to her advisor a 
number of times, from 8 to 16 February. I also note that she was told by the advisor that she 
would receive a call, on both 8 and 15 February. 
When Ms M did speak to her advisor, the concerns she had were quickly resolved, and Ms 
M provided the final documents for her application promptly after that. So I think that if either 
of the calls the advisor had said she would make to Ms M, on 8 or 15 February, had been 
made, Ms Ms application could have been completed before the deal she wanted was 
withdrawn. 
I have considered First Completes further representations here, and Id like to say I dont 
think theres any suggestion that the advisor acted out of malice, or that she could or should 
have been aware that the relevant lender was about to withdraw the deal Ms M wanted. 
First Complete also said its advisor simply wasnt able to call Ms M, because of her 
workload. But I also note that this advisor didnt indicate to Ms M that she would need a 
considerable amount of time before she could turn to Ms Ms application. She didnt warn Ms 
M about any delays. Rather, she twice said she would call shortly. 
Ive considered all the circumstances of this particular case carefully, and, on balance, I do 
think that its fair and reasonable to ask First Complete to pay the additional costs that Ms M 
will now incur, because she wasnt able to get her application in before the relevant deal was 
withdrawn. I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this case. So Ill ask First Complete to pay the additional amount that Ms M now pays each month, because she 
wasnt able to secure the lower rate. 
Assuming Ms M accepts my final decision, that will mean First Complete should pay Ms M 
the difference in her monthly mortgage payments between the 1.46% rate and the 1.71% 
rate for the initial five year fixed rate period of the mortgage she obtained, based on the 
amount of the mortgage she obtained. Like our investigator, I think there is an advantage to 
Ms M in receiving this money in advance, in a lump sum, before she actually needs to meet 
most of those larger monthly payments. So, for that reason, I also think that First Complete 
doesnt need to pay compensation in addition, in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that First Complete Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network must pay 
Ms M the difference in her monthly mortgage payments between the 1.46% rate that she 
failed to secure, and the 1.71% rate she did then secure, for the initial five year fixed rate 
period of the mortgage she obtained, based on the amount of the mortgage she obtained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman