DRN-4241926
The complaint
Mr F complains that Think Money Limited have held him liable for payments made from his
account which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
On 11 October 2022 there was a series of faster payments made from Mr Fs account with
Think Money. The payments took place between around 3.00am and 3.23am. The payments
ranged roughly from £67 to £92, and together totalled around £2,200. All the payments went
to the same (new) beneficiary, a Mr T. These funds represented Mr Fs wages which had
recently been received (the same evening).
Mr F reported these payments to Think Money as unauthorised  that being that he hadnt
made or instructed them. Think Money took steps to secure Mr Fs account and had several
phone calls with him. They specifically asked on numerous occasions whether Mr F had any
suspicious or unusual calls in which hed been tricked into sharing any of his security details.
This included calls that could have been someone impersonating Think Money. Mr F was
adamant that he hadnt. Think Money said that based on the information they had, they
wouldnt be able to provide a refund.
Mr F complained and when Think Money maintained their position the matter was referred to
our service. One of our Investigators thought the complaint should be upheld and
recommended that Think Money should provide a full refund plus interest.
Mr F accepted this outcome, but Think Money disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to
review the complaint.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach a different outcome to that of our Investigator. I know
this will be disappointing for Mr F, so Ill explain why.
Mr Fs testimony has been consistent throughout and can broadly be summarised as:
No-one else has access to his phone which is protected by a passcode and facial
recognition.
He never received any suspicious calls that he didnt recognise, including calls with
anyone potentially impersonating Think Money.
He never shared any One-Time Passcode (OTP) or security information in relation to
his account with any third party.
The evidence from Think Money shows that in September 2022 a new device was added to
Mr Fs account. And it was from that new device that the payments in dispute were later
sent. To add the new device, it required an OTP to be entered. And Think Money have
evidenced that this was sent to the number they had on file for Mr F at the time. This is the
same phone number that Mr F has provided to our service. Think Money have also said that
beyond the OTP, further information would be needed to set up a new device. This would
have included his username, date of birth and password.
As there was no plausible point of compromise for all this information (particularly the OTP),
I dont think Think Money holding Mr F liable for the payments he disputes is unfair. Im more
persuaded by the technical evidence from Think Money. I dont think it would have been
possible or likely for the new device to have been set up, and the payments sent, without
knowledge of Mr Fs security details and the OTP. And Mr Fs own testimony is that no-one
else could have known these.
Mr F has also said that on the night in question he received notifications from Think Money
which said he wouldnt be able to send money from his account until 5.00am. So he is
confused as to how these payments could have happened. Think Money have explained that 
the time at which funds are credited to the account can vary, but they have no record of Mr F 
being shown any such notification or that the funds wouldnt have been available until
5.00am. I cant know for sure what if any notification Mr F saw, but payments were instructed
and left the account before 5.00am that morning. And Im not persuaded that there was an
error by Think Money in relation to this. Even if it could be proved beyond all doubt that there
was a notification as Mr F says, that wouldnt change my mind as to the outcome of this
complaint. This is because whether or not payments were authorised is the key
consideration, rather than the time at which the money became available in the account.
Mr F also says that the series of payments was unusual activity and something that Think
Money ought to have stopped. Think Money can only reasonably intervene in Mr Fs usage
of his account in certain circumstances. This includes trying to protect him from a fraud,
scam or the misappropriation of funds. But in this case, as Im supportive of Think Moneys
conclusion that Mr F more likely than not authorised the payments he is disputing, there isnt
a basis upon which I think they ought to have intervened. Without a scam or similar to
protect against, then there is no requirement for Think Money to do more than follow the
instructions they are given.
I note that Think Money clearly had their suspicions that Mr F might have fallen victim to a
scam. And their final response letter to his complaint included that if he subsequently
remembered anything further, they would be happy to take that into consideration  I think
that is fair. Think Money also contacted the bank that received Mr Fs funds and were told
that no funds remained to be returned. Again, I think Think Money contacting the beneficiary
bank was fair.
Think Money didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr F made some further 
submissions which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has provided evidence of the notification he says he received on the night in question. 
It reads Budgeting is happening. So, money cant be moved until around 5am, but you can use your card as usual. Ive considered this. The type of account Mr F has involves a 
feature where money is set aside for regular bills and it is then clearer to the accountholder 
what remains available for spending. The budgeting process is presumably when this is 
worked out following a credit to the account. But firstly, the message refers to around 5am 
rather than a specific time, indicating funds may become available sooner. And secondly, as 
I said in my provisional decision, the key consideration is the authorisation of the payments. 
Im not persuaded that there was an error by Think Money in following the payment 
instructions they received based on the notification Mr F says he saw.
Mr F has also highlighted (and evidenced) that on occasions the app shows that he will be 
receiving more money in his account than his regular wages. And that this amount later 
corrects itself. I accept Mr Fs evidence on this point, but this doesnt change my mind as to 
whether or not the outcome Think Money reached in relation to liability for the payments was 
fair. The app momentarily showing an incorrect incoming amount, doesnt impact how and 
by whom the payments were instructed.  
Mr F has also said that other customers reported issues with Think Money and has provided 
some online reviews to support this. Ive taken account of this as part of the wider 
circumstances, but I can only comment on Mr Fs individual complaint. And other customers 
alleging unauthorised payments from their account, or having other issues with Think 
Money, doesnt automatically influence the outcome of Mr Fs complaint. Im not persuaded 
by the reviews Mr F has submitted that there is sufficient evidence to support that there was 
a systemic issue with Think Money that impacts his complaint.  
Mr F says that the frequency and number of the outgoing payments should be evidence 
enough that they werent him. Unfortunately, I dont agree. The frequency and number of 
payments in itself isnt proof they were unauthorised. And as Ive mentioned above, as Im 
supportive of Think Moneys outcome, there isnt any basis upon which they ought to have 
intervened in authorised payments. I dont agree with Mr F that Think Money have been 
negligent. 
Mr F also says that the speed with which he reported the payments, means Think Money 
ought to have been able to stop them. Payments such as those relevant to this complaint are 
usually completed almost instantly. So by the time Mr F reported this, it would have already 
been too late to stop the payments. And as I noted in my provisional decision, Think Money 
did contact the recipient bank and were told that no funds could be returned. 
At the core of this complaint is the fact that the payments were instructed from a new device, 
the setup of which required the entry of security details as well as an OTP (sent to Mr Fs 
phone). And Mr Fs own evidence is that he never shared an OTP with anyone (even 
someone impersonating Think Money) and that no-one else would have been able to access 
his phone. I remain more persuaded by this evidence from Think Money than by Mr Fs 
testimony. And so Im not going to require them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 Richard Annandale
Ombudsman