DRN-3863196
The complaint
The trustees of a charity which I refer to as T, complain that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) unfairly placed a restriction on Ts bank account (the Account). 
  
What happened
The background to this case is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, one of the trustees, who Ill refer to as Mrs J has told us that: 
On 18 July 2022 NatWest restricted the Account. 
Although 10 days later, on 28 July 2022, NatWest removed the restriction, in the time 
the Account was restricted, not only did T lose donations, but she also suffered 
personally through stress and worry. 
NatWest said they restricted the Account because the trustees failed to respond to 
their request for outstanding information to help them conduct a business profile 
review for T. But that explanation omits an important detail which is that Mrs J agreed 
with NatWest that after returning from a trip abroad shed call the bank on 10 August 
2022, to provide the information. 
Yet, despite that agreement, on 18 July 2022 the bank went ahead and restricted the 
Account. In doing so NatWest acted hastily and unfairly.  
NatWest didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They maintained that they asked the 
trustees a number of times for information to help them complete their review. And because 
the trustees failed to provide the outstanding information, despite repeated requests and 
extended deadlines, the bank restricted the Account. 
The trustees were unhappy with the banks response and so, they referred the complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Having regard to the timeline of events, he said 
 in summary that:
On 28 June 2022 in a phone call to Mrs J, NatWest explained the information they 
required, which at Mrs Js request, the bank later confirmed by e-mails. 
 
NatWest have shown the two emails they sent to Mrs J after the 28 June 2022 
conversation. They explained the information the bank needed and the date it had to 
be provided  which was 5 July, later extended to 11 July 2022. On the basis the 
trustees didnt provide the information, the bank didnt do anything wrong when it 
restricted the Account. 
Its acknowledged that on 20 July 2022, Mrs J did call NatWest to query why the 
Account had been restricted. It was during this call that a further phone appointment 
with NatWest was arranged for 10 August 2022. 
But the evidence doesnt support Mrs Js case that the bank acted prematurely when 
it restricted the Account.  In other words, contrary to Mrs Js testimony, the 20 July 
2022 phone call supports the conclusion, that the restriction was already in place 
when it was agreed Mrs J would revert to the bank on 10 August 2022, with the 
information it had asked for. 
The terms and conditions of the Account  in particular 5.3 provides NatWest with the 
authority to place such restriction on the Account. So, when the bank didnt receive 
the outstanding information by the date it was required, the bank didnt do anything 
wrong when, on 18 July 2022, it restricted the Account. 
NatWest accepted the investigators conclusions, but the trustees didnt and have asked an 
ombudsman to review their case. 
On the trustees behalf Mrs J acknowledges she didnt provide the information the bank 
requested on 28 June 2022 in the phone call to her. But she said she was suspicious the call 
might not have been genuine  possibly a scam. She said the investigator failed to address 
the trustees concerns about the banks general incompetence and inefficiency and the loss 
of donations arising from what had happened. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
I start by mentioning that banks, including NatWest, are entitled to request from their 
customers information that they need to comply with their regulatory obligations. And as part 
of that process, NatWest asked the trustees for the information they needed to complete 
their business profile review. 
NatWest made a number of such requests and they used different forms of communication 
including, emails and phone calls. I do not find that they acted wrongly when they requested 
the information because they did so, in order that they could comply with their regulatory 
obligations.  
Turning next to NatWests decision to restrict the Account. They said they didnt receive the 
outstanding information the trustees had been asked to provide. Mrs J acknowledges she 
did not provide the information to the bank because initially she had concerns about the true 
source of the requests, and in any event later she was given to 10 August 2022 to do so. 
Ive examined carefully the relevant timeline surrounding the banks request for outstanding 
information.  I believe this to be largely between 28 June  20 July 2022 when there were 
various phone calls and written correspondence with the trustees.  Ive listened to a number 
of phone calls between the bank and Mrs J. But in particular two phone calls that took place 
on 28 June, and 20 July 2022. I start with the phone call on 28 June 2022. Mrs J explained she was unsure whether the 
request from the banks employee was truly coming from NatWest or a potential fraudster 
and that is why she declined to provide the information requested. 
The bank employee introduced herself to Mrs J and after asking the appropriate security 
questions she explained her role, the reason for the call and the information she needed Mrs 
J to provide. I am satisfied the call was polite and professional. Ms J did provide some of the 
information requested  including up to date addresses for one of the trustees. The tone and 
contents of the phone call do not give an indication Mrs J had concerns about the person 
with whom she was speaking. Indeed, she seemed to recognise the employee having 
remarked that previously the employee had promised to send her a PIN code to access an 
email shed said shed be sending but didnt do so. 
A third item of information did seem more problematic. That seemed to relate a specific 
payment the trustees had made in 2020 for just under £3,800 which the bank wanted further 
details of. Mrs J explained she did not have that evidence to hand.  She asked the employee 
to send her an e-mail setting out all the information the bank needed, and shed respond 
within a week with the information. 
I can see from the banks records that on 1 July 2022, the employee wrote to Mrs J as shed 
requested setting out the information Mrs J needed to provide. On 5 July 2022, the bank 
wrote to Mrs J asking her to call the bank by 11 July 2022. The letter said if the bank was 
unable to speak to Mrs J by then, it would restrict access to the Account.
On 6 July 2022 the employee again wrote to Mrs J to ask whether she was available to 
provide the information. But as Mrs J acknowledged she did not send the information to 
NatWest. 
It is not unreasonable for bank customers to be vigilant about possible fraud and scams. But 
in the circumstances of this case, I bear in mind the persistent nature of the banks requests 
and the fact they were made through a range of means. Whilst it is true the request on 28 
June 2022 was by phone, Mrs J asked the employee to email the banks request. That 
seemed a reasonable precaution in light of the fear of possible fraud that Mrs J told us she 
felt. 
But as I noted above, the conversation between Mrs J and the employee support the 
conclusion Mrs J had previously spoken to her. Against that background, therefore, it is 
difficult to conclude that Mrs Js had reasonable grounds for suspecting the request was not 
one from NatWest but from a potential fraudster. 
As the investigator noted, by the time Mrs J contacted the bank by phone on 20 July 2022, 
the Account was already restricted. In that call Mrs J was aware the information hadnt been 
provided. She explained she was due shortly to go abroad and would return on 9 August.  
She agreed that she would contact the bank, on 10 August 2022, the day after her return to 
provide the outstanding information. Importantly, however, it was not to prevent the Account 
being restricted as it already was. 
Under section 5.3 of the terms and conditions of the Account, NatWest are entitled to 
suspend or restrict use of a customers account in certain circumstances. These include if 
the bank reasonably believes the continuation of access might mean that it is at risk of 
breaching a law or regulation that it is obliged to comply with.I am satisfied that since T hadnt met the requirements for the completion by NatWest of the 
business profile review, and since this is a regulatory requirement, section 5.3, as just noted, 
entitles NatWest to place a restriction on the Account. 
I have not been persuaded the restriction was premature. I am satisfied the timeline of 
events does not support Mrs Js contention that the bank acted in haste by not allowing her 
the time she and the bank had agreed for her to provide the information. As Ive already 
noted, the promise she made to the bank to provide the information by 10 August, took place 
on 20 July 2022. By then the restriction had already been placed on the Account. Mrs J was 
aware of this. It was the reason she called the bank in the first place. 
Since I have not found NatWest to be at fault, and whilst Im sorry to disappoint the trustees, 
it follows I do not think the bank was responsible for any loss of donations to T.
I know Mrs J has said that the investigator didnt comment on the banks alleged 
incompetence and inefficiency. But the investigator did not find that the bank was at fault in 
the circumstances of this case, and I agree. I note, however, that Mrs J has commented that 
the bank has already acknowledged historic poor service for which they paid substantial 
compensation to T. I do not think the investigator needed to comment on those matters and 
not least since it was no part of the trustees case the bank hadnt paid them sufficient 
compensation at the time. 
In relation to the issues surrounding this complaint, Ive not been persuaded the bank has 
done anything wrong. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman