DRN-1865059
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled a claim against Mr Bs 
policy as a fault one when they believe it shouldnt have.
What happened
Mr B holds a motor insurance policy with UKI, his mother Mrs B is a named driver on the 
policy. Mrs B was involved in an accident on a roundabout when driving. Mrs B told UKI that 
she was not at fault for the accident and provided it with details of an independent witness to 
the accident.
Mrs B told UKI that she wasnt sure how the accident had happened as she hadnt seen the 
other car and that it may have been in her blind spot. She only knew something was wrong 
when she tried to pull away and the car felt as if it was dragging and she then noticed the 
driver of the other car looking at her.
The third party insurer told UKI its insured held Mrs B accountable for the accident.
UKI contacted the independent witness and they provided their version of events, they also 
said that Mrs B was responsible for the accident. So UKI accepted liability for the claim.
Mrs B was unhappy with this  she didnt agree that she was responsible and said that she 
would be prepared to accept a shared liability settlement. She also felt that the witness 
statement shouldnt be relied upon as she said he had gotten the following things wrong in 
his account:
The colour of her car was Red not Silver as the witness statement suggested
She was intending to turn right at the roundabout not left as the statement suggested
UKI considered this but felt that the mistakes could be easily explained if they were to try 
and defend the claim and the witness would still be credible in court. It said this along with 
Mrs Bs statement that she didnt see the other car would make the claim hard to defend in 
court and so its decision to accept liability remained the same. 
Mrs B and Mr B were unhappy with UKIs answer and so brought their complaint to this 
service. The investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it, in summary he said 
he felt UKI had acted fairly when dealing with the claim and he didnt think that it made a 
difference that the witness had gotten some details wrong in his statement.
Mrs B and Mr B disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a few issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Mrs B and Mr B that I think the investigator reached the right outcome here and 
for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
Before I go into the specific points of this complaint, Id like to explain that my role is here is 
not to decide who is liable for the claim. But to decide if UKI treated Mrs B and Mr B fairly 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions when it dealt with the claim and decided to 
accept liability.
In doing so, I note the policy, like every other motor insurance policy Ive seen, allows UKI to 
take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim. But it must be fair to Mrs B 
and Mr B if it does decide to settle the claim, by this I mean it should only do so when its 
more likely than not the claim against Mrs B and Mr B would succeed in court. This is 
because UKI wouldnt want to risk all the costs and expenses in defending a claim that 
theyre likely to lose in court.
Before accepting liability UKI considered Mrs Bs version of events and contacted the 
witness for their version of events to see if this was a claim it could defend, and based on all 
the information available to it, thought it should settle the claim as it didnt believe it had 
enough evidence to defend it.
I know Mrs B doesnt agree that the witness statement was credible because of the factual 
inaccuracies but I feel I should clear this up. Having read the statement, (a pre-printed form 
with questions where the answers were handwritten by the witness) I can tell Mrs B that the 
witness didnt say she had a silver car, in fact he didnt say what colour either car was. But 
he did answer this question as follows:
who in your opinion was responsible for the accident?
the car driven by the lady
Further in the form he goes on to describe what happened and said:
As I approached roundabout, I saw two cars side by side at entry to roundabout. 
They were stationary. The lady turned left to take the first exit in doing so she hit car 
on inside[sic]
Im unsure how this misinformation that the witness had given the incorrect car colour came 
to be but can see why it would have troubled Mrs B to think there were factual inaccuracies. 
And I understand that she feels the witness was wrong about her direction of travel, but I 
agree with UKI that this couldve been easily explained in court, as following the accident 
Mrs B did turn left and so the witness may have thought that was always her intention.
I can see how frustrating this has been for Mrs B and Mr B, but I dont think there is anything 
else UKI couldve done to defend the claim. Im satisfied that UKI fully considered the 
evidence before accepting liability and based on this I think it was fair and reasonable for it 
to settle the claim as a fault one. So, I wont be asking it to do anything differently.
I know Mrs B and Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what 
we  in trying to resolve their dispute with UKI can do for them.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman