DRN-2825231
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling Bank) made errors when processing 
his account switch and a claim he made under the Direct Debit Guarantee. 
What happened
Mr B used the account switching service to switch his existing current account to Starling 
Bank. Ill refer to the provider of the existing current account as P. 
On 28 July 2020, Mr B instructed Starling Bank to make a faster payment to his previous 
account held with P. The payment was sent but returned a couple of seconds later. Mr B 
called Starling Bank on 29 July 2020 to find out why the payment hadnt been made. Starling 
Bank told Mr B there were no issues with his account and the payment should go through. 
Mr B suggested that there was an issue due to his account being switched from P. Starling 
Bank suggested Mr B should contact P. It was later confirmed that there was an instruction 
for P to automatically direct any payments made to Mr Bs previous account, to his Starling 
Bank account, which is why the payment wasnt successful. 
Starling Bank confirmed P hadnt closed Mr Bs existing account. Mr B queried where 
Starling Banks account switching information confirmed this would happen, as his previous 
account with P was still open. 
On 30 July 2020, Starling Bank sent Mr B a screenshot to show it had explained his previous 
account would be closed. Mr B said he had set up a monthly standing order to P and 
questioned whether this would be paid on 1 September 2020. Starling Bank confirmed that it 
could see the standing order had been set up correctly by Mr B, but couldnt confirm whether 
P would accept it. 
On 2 September 2020, Mr B called Starling Bank as his standing order hadnt been paid. It 
looked into this and explained it hadnt made an error and Mr B would need to direct his 
complaint to P. Following this, a number of calls took place between in September 2020. 
Mr B complained Starling Bank and said it:
couldnt find notes of his calls in July 2020 when he initially called
hadnt told him why his payment on 1 September 2020 wasnt made to his account 
with P until late on 3 September 2020, when it knew earlier in the day
provided poor customer service and the agents were rude 
Starling Bank looked into Mr Bs complaint and agreed it had made some errors. It 
apologised to Mr B and said it had provided him with incorrect information about the standing 
order redirection and acknowledged its customer service had fallen short. It said it failed to 
call Mr B back on three occasions and didnt explain its processes correctly on several calls. 
As a token of apology, it credited Mr Bs account with £75.
Following this, Mr B contacted Starling Bank on 4 November 2020 and said he wanted to 
make a Direct Debit indemnity claim for two large payments taken by P. He said he had 
agreed a payment holiday with P for three months and so P should have only taken 
payments of £1 for these three months. Mr B said he had a copy of a letter from P which 
confirmed this, so Starling Bank asked him to send it a copy. Mr B sent in some information, 
but Starling Bank said this wasnt sufficient. As Mr B didnt have any further information, 
Starling Bank didnt raise an indemnity claim. 
Mr B complained and said:
before investigating a claim, other account providers provide an automatic refund for 
a Direct Debit indemnity claim  but Starling Bank didnt do this
Starling Bank provided incorrect information about the Direct Debit indemnity process
he was unhappy with the attitude of its agents and they had terminated his calls 
he was unhappy with the security process in place
it had provided incorrect information on whether it could read out previous call notes
he wasnt contacted when he was told he would be
Starling Bank closed his account, so he couldnt send them any further information.  
Starling Bank looked into Mr Bs complaint and said it had followed the Direct Debit 
indemnity process correctly. It also said it terminated a number of calls as Mr B was abusive 
to its agents. And it said it hadnt done anything wrong when it asked Mr B to provide 
information to verify him. It apologised and acknowledged there were several instances 
where its customer service had fallen short and it hadnt called back on some occasions. It 
also accepted it had provided incorrect information about how Starling Bank dealt with Direct 
Debit indemnity claims. It said it would provide feedback to its teams and said offered to 
credit Mr Bs account with £50. Mr Bs account was also closed on 20 November 2020.
Unhappy with this, Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He said both issues had 
affected him emotionally and financially. He said Starling Bank caused him to miss payments 
to people he owed and this affected his credit file. He was also unhappy with the amount of 
compensation he had been offered. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said he agreed Starling Banks customer 
service fell short when Mr B made calls about the payment being returned. But he thought 
the £75 offer Starling Bank made for this issue was fair. The investigator also thought that it 
was fair for Starling Bank to request additional information to process the Direct Debit 
indemnity claim. He thought its service fell short, but thought its additional offer of £50 was 
sufficient for the customer service it provided Mr B. He didnt recommend Starling Bank 
made any further payments.
Mr B disagreed. He said Starling Bank refused to reclaim money it paid P. He said he 
couldnt provide the additional information Starling Bank had requested, as it removed his 
ability to use its mobile app. 
As Mr B disagrees, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account switch
Ive looked carefully at Starling Banks current account switching process. It confirms that it 
will send the request to the existing current account provider and the existing account will be 
closed. It confirms the existing account provider will make sure any payments made to the 
existing account are redirected to the Starling Bank account. And the existing account 
balance, salary, payees, Direct Debits and standing orders will be redirected to the new 
Starling Bank account.  
In this case, Mr B was attempting to make a payment by standing order to his existing 
account with P, but it was automatically redirected back to his Starling Bank account. As per 
the process set out by the Current Account Switch Service, the payment was correctly 
redirected back to Mr Bs Starling Bank account. It was also the responsibility of P to ensure 
Mr Bs existing account was closed. However, as the account with P remained open, Mr B 
was led to believe he could still make standing order payments to it. 
Starling Bank accepts it provided Mr B with incorrect information when it told Mr B he would 
be able to make standing order payments to his account with P, after the account switch had 
been completed. As a result of this, Mr B had to call in a number of times to understand why 
the payment was failing. I think Starling Bank should have clearly told Mr B that he wouldnt 
be able to make a payment to his account with P and I accept that this caused Mr B 
unnecessary inconvenience.
Direct Debit indemnity
When Mr B asked Starling Bank to raise an indemnity claim, Starling Bank looked to raise 
this under the terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee. This Guarantee allows a customer to a 
full and immediate refund of the amount paid from their bank or building society, if an error is 
made in the payment of a customers Direct Debit, by the organisation or a customers bank 
or building society.
Mr B complained that P wasnt entitled to take the payment, as he had agreed to a payment 
holiday with it. This claim appeared to meet the conditions of the Direct Debit Guarantee. 
However, Starling Bank asked Mr B for further information. Ive looked at whether it was 
entitled to ask for this information and whether it was reasonable for it to request this 
information. 
The terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee confirm that:
In some cases your bank or building society may require further information to ascertain the 
nature of the error and confirm that one has indeed occurred. Any clarifications will help your 
bank or building society in subsequent dialogue it has with the collecting organisation. Once 
an error in the payment of a Direct Debit has been established, you will be refunded 
immediately.
In this case, Starling Bank asked Mr B for any supporting evidence relating to the payment 
holiday. Mr B said he recalled receiving a letter from P confirming this. But Mr B couldnt 
locate the letter and so was unable to provide Starling Bank with further information. He did 
provide it with some information, but this didnt confirm that a payment holiday had been 
agreed with P. 
Given that Starling Bank was entitled to ask Mr B for further information when Mr B made his 
claim under the Direct Debit Guarantee, I dont think it did anything wrong when it didnt raise a claim. And I think it was reasonable for it to request the information it did.
Mr B has mentioned that another current account provider gave him a different response. He 
says this was the same information as another provider, but different to Starling Banks. 
However, I cant comment on information Mr B has been provided by other current account 
providers. I can only consider what Starling Bank has done here.
Overall customer service
Ive listened to a number of calls that took place between Mr B and the agents of Starling 
Bank. Ive also seen call notes and correspondence between Starling Bank and Mr B. 
Having reviewed this information, I agree that incorrect information was provided by Starling 
Bank on a number of occasions. It also didnt call Mr B back when it said it would and calls 
were terminated prematurely by its agents. Starling Bank accepts it made these errors. 
Through listening to the calls, its also clear that Mr B was frustrated by the actions of 
Starling Bank and on some occasions, Mr B let this frustration out on the agents of Starling 
Bank. So I can understand why some calls were terminated by Starling Bank due to the 
comments made by Mr B to its agents.  
Overall, Starling Bank accepts its customer service fell short of what it would expect and 
apologised to Mr B. I think this is fair in the circumstances and I think its overall offer of £125 
for the errors its made, is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman