DRN-3421468
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Limited restricted and then closed his account and that it took 
£150 from it without his consent or authority. 
What happened
Mr B held an account with Revolut. In or around October 2020, following a compliance 
check, Revolut decided to restrict the account and later closed it. Revolut says that it 
returned £150 held to the credit of the account to its source and refunded the small balance 
that remained to a card in Mr Bs name. 
When Mr B complained about what had happened, Revolut said it had acted in line with 
regulatory requirements. It said too that the account terms allowed it to act as it had. They 
expressly said that it could perform routine due diligence checks and take such measures as 
were necessary during such checks. Those measures included account restrictions. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She did not believe that Revolut had acted unfairly, however. She noted that 
Revolut had offered Mr B £20 to resolve matters  a sum she thought was fair in the 
circumstances.  
Mr B did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator did, and 
for similar reasons. 
Banks and other providers of banking services can review customer accounts; in some 
circumstances, regulations may require them to do so. And it is generally for a bank to 
decide whether it wishes to provide (or to continue to provide) account services to a 
customer. 
In this case, I agree with the investigator that Revolut acted fairly when it decided first to 
restrict and then to close Mr Bs account. I think too that the action it took in paying funds 
held to the credit of the account when it was closed were reasonable.  
For these reasons, I agree with the investigator that Revoluts offer of £20 is reasonable and 
I wont be recommending it do any more to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Revolut Ltd to do anything more to resolve Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman