DRN-2880149
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that Revolut Ltd blocked and closed its bank account. And 
then returned funds in the account to their original sources, rather than to K.
K is represented by its director Ms D. 
What happened
In October 2019, Revolut carried out a review of Ks account
. 
Revolut completed its review and returned the money that had been paid into Ks account to 
the original senders of the money, rather than releasing it to K.  Revolut also decided to 
close Ks account.
 
Ms D complained but Revolut maintained its position, so she brought Ks complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. And asked Ms D for some more 
information about the payments made into Ks account. Ms D said the money was for 
payment for work carried out for a number of Ks clients. And she provided copies of invoices 
to support her explanation. 
The investigator said Revolut hadnt done anything wrong by closing and reviewing Ks 
account. And sending the money back to the sources. Ms D disagreed. She wants Revolut 
to return the money paid into Ks account to her and reopen Ks account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Ks account. And it was 
entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. It wasnt obliged to tell Ms D why it 
was carrying out a review, and I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to require it to 
do so. 
Revolut was also within its rights to close Ks account and did so line with the account terms 
and relevant regulations. So, I cant say Revolut have done anything wrong when it closed 
Ks account. And I wont be asking Revolut to reopen Ks account. 
The crux of Ms Ds complaint is that shes unhappy Revolut returned money paid into Ks 
account to source  in other words it sent the money back. Ms D says the money paid into 
Ks account was for services shed provided to various clients and shes provided us with 
copies of invoices which she says supports her explanation. 
Ive looked at the paperwork Ms D has provided along with the information provided by 
Revolut about the funds and how the account was operating. But Ive not seen any evidence 
to support the invoices, for example any correspondence between K (or Ms D) with the 
customers named on the invoices, what was provided by K exactly and when. So, Im not 
satisfied that the evidence provided by Ms D shows K is entitled to the money which was 
paid into its account. So, I wont be asking Revolut to refund K.
In summary, Revolut carried out a review on Ks account as theyre entitled to do  as part of 
that review, they asked Ms D for evidence that the money in the account rightfully belonged 
to K. Ms D provided evidence of that, but Revolut didnt agree it was sufficient, so they 
returned the money in the account back to source. Based on the full circumstances of this 
complaint, and the evidence Ive received from both parties, Im satisfied Revoluts actions 
are fair. So, it follows that I wont be asking Revolut to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman