DRN-1908403
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the car supplied to her by Santander consumer (UK) Plc, trading as
Santander Consumer Finance (Santander), under a conditional sale agreement was not of
satisfactory quality 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision of 7 May 2021, which said:
On 3 January 2018 Mrs B acquired a car from garage A. Mrs B part exchanged a car which
had an existing debt of £4,059.56, which Santander combined into her new car finance
agreement. This brought the total purchase price of the car to £12,068.56. Mrs B also took
out a fixed sum loan for £2,759.56 which was used, together with a £99 payment from Mrs B
as a deposit for the car. To buy the car Mrs B entered into a conditional sale agreement with
Santander for £9,210 payable over 60 months. The car was registered in 2015 and had
27,310 miles.
On 10 December 2018 while on the motorway, Mrs Bs car lost power. A recovery vehicle
towed her car to a franchised dealer, garage A, so the problem could be investigated. The
investigation showed that the timing chain had failed, damaging the engine in the process.
This meant that a new engine was needed. Garage A had decided to consult their technical
team to see whether a contribution could be made towards paying for a new engine.
In June 2019 after a number of phone calls between Mrs B and garage A, an offer was made
by garage A to cover around 40% of the costs of a new engine, leaving Mrs B to cover the
remaining £3,733. Mrs B disputed having to pay any costs as she felt the car shouldnt have
failed within the first year after purchase. Mrs B complained to Santander, however they
didnt uphold her complaint. They explained that Mrs B would have to prove through an
experts report that the cause of failure was present when the car was supplied to her.
Santander believed this was consistent with the guidance provided in the Consumer Rights
Act 2015 (CRA).
Due to the car being undriveable, Mrs B initially hired a car from garage A for £50 per week,
but then decided to buy another car for around £800.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us in September 2019. One of our investigators looked into
her concerns. They didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to
Mrs B. Our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that Santander repair the
car at no additional cost to Mrs B and refund some of her monthly repayments.
Santander disagreed with our investigators view and pointed to the CRA as, in its view,
being specific in that after six months the burden is on the consumer to prove the fault
existed at the time of purchase. Santander has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
In January 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to a slightly different outcome to the investigator, and Ill explain
how Ive arrived at my decision.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought afresh about all the evidence and
information provided and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good
industry practice at the relevant time.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander is also the supplier of the goods under
this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car. This is
apparent from Mrs Bs description of events, the correspondence from the manufacturer
confirming their offer following an investigation, and the correspondence from Santander
addressing the issues with the car and their resolution. Having considered the car had a
fault, Ive had to consider whether it was of satisfactory quality at the time of supply.
I find it unlikely that a reasonably durable timing chain would have failed within this
timeframe. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mrs B caused the damage in such a
relatively short space of time. The car had a full-service history and recently had its MOT
carried out. I acknowledge that timing chains arent typically serviceable components,
however, if a car is suitably maintained, timing chains are expected to last a considerable
length of time, and in many instances for the life of a vehicle. I think its fair to say that the
timing chain shouldnt have failed so soon in Mrs Bs case, and Im not persuaded that it
failed because of anything that Mrs B had done.
I acknowledge Santander believes that under the CRA Mrs B must prove the fault existed at
the time of supply, because its been more than six months since she was supplied the car.
I also acknowledge, as pointed out by Santander that theres more than one way in which a
timing chain can fail, like an engine over heating or running low on oil. However, I think
putting the onus on Mrs B to rule out all other probable causes, in this instance is
unreasonable. Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mrs B drove the car in a way that
contributed to the premature failure of the timing chain, and as Ive already explained, the
car had a good service history.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects,
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods. From the evidence provided I
think its fair to conclude that Mrs Bs car was not suitably durable because it suffered
catastrophic engine failure after 37,000 miles as the result of a part failing that should not
reasonably have failed at that mileage. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to
have to replace the engine on a car of this age and mileage so soon, so I dont consider the
car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied.I can empathise with Mrs Bs disappointment with the condition of her car; its an unfortunate
situation that would have caused her a degree of distress and inconvenience. So, I think a
compensation payment would be fair in the circumstances.
In her complaint letter, Mrs B writes about having to borrow money to buy a less expensive
car so she could get herself and her children about, hiring a car for a planned holiday and
the initial hire from the dealer for a courtesy car, this is in addition to initial bus and train
fares. During this Mrs B maintained her monthly repayments to the finance agreement.
In the circumstances I think its fairer to consider compensation as the inconvenience caused
to Mrs B overall. Thats because in addition to compensation Ill be instructing Santander to
refund some of Mrs Bs monthly repayments. Ive also had to think about whether all the
costs incurred by Mrs B were reasonable in the circumstances, in addition to any natural
offsetting of costs, for example with fuel costs. Having given it careful consideration, Ill be
instructing Santander to pay Mrs B £250 compensation as I think this is a fair recognition of
the inconvenience caused to Mrs B.
Ive already established that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to
Mrs B, so Santander needs to put things right. Santander has suggested repairing the issue
with a contribution from Mrs B, but Mrs B has recently told our investigator that shed prefer
to reject the car, which under the CRA shes entitled to do. So Ill be instructing Santander to
facilitate a rejection of the car for her.
Taking into account the delays and inconvenience that this has caused, I think its fair for
Mrs B to reject the car and receive a pro rata refund of her deposit and monthly payments
that she made while the car was not driveable, and end the agreement she has with
Santander. In addition, as Mrs B only had use of the car for about two thirds of the month of
December 2018, I think she should also receive a two thirds pro rata refund for this month to
reflect her loss of use.
calculating the pro rata refund
When Mrs B entered into the agreement, Santander took on her existing debt of £4059.56
from a car that she part exchanged. Ive set out below how the transaction worked:
-purchase price of Mrs Bs new car = £9,309
-less £1,300 (part exchanged amount)
-add £4.059.56 (existing debt from Mrs Bs part exchanged car)
-less £2,858.56 (deposit paid by Mrs B)
This left £9,210 as the net price for Mrs B to pay through the conditional sale agreement
over 60 monthly payments (with interest to be added).
This means that £4,059.56 of the initial finance from Santander was existing debt, owned by
Mrs B. And which is 44% of the total agreement. And so 56% of the finance was new money
loaned to Mrs B.
Itd be unfair to ask Santander to refund the entire amount Mrs B has paid towards the
agreement because as Ive already established, 44% of it was existing debt that they took on
for her. However, I think its fair that Santander refunds 56% of all payments made by Mrs B
from January 2019 (when the car became undriveable) until when the loan is unwound. In
addition, Santander should also repay only 56% of the deposit Mrs B paid.So as an example, if Santander unwound the loan after June 2021s payment, the amounts
refunded to Mrs B would be:
56% of £2,858.56 (deposit) is £1,600.79
56% of £6,551.10 (amount paid from January 2019  June 2021) is £3,668.62
The same concept should be applied to the percentage refund of December 2018s
payment. So, £144 (two thirds of Decembers payment) becomes £80.64 accounting for a
44% retention by Santander. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. Mrs B also responded 
to say that she had accepted my provisional decision. 
I still consider my provisional findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Neither 
party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the reasons 
as set out above, my final decision is the same.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and instruct Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
end the conditional sale agreement entered into by Mrs B on 3 January 2018 and 
recover the car at no additional cost to her
refund 56% of Mrs Bs deposit. This will be £1,600.79
refund two thirds of the monthly payment made in December 2018, and account for 
the 44% deduction as described above. For clarity this would be £80.64
refund to Mrs B, 56% of all the monthly payments shes made under the agreement 
from January 2019 until the agreement has been unwound (please see example 
above)
remove the finance agreement and any adverse information related to this 
agreement from Mrs Bs credit file
pay Mrs B £250 compensation for the distress an inconvenience this would have 
caused her
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds 
calculated from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
 
If Santander Consumer (UK) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mrs B how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 Benjamin John
Ombudsman