DRN-2115644
Complaint
Mrs S has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) unfairly accepted 
her as a guarantor on a guarantor loan. She says that she was pressured by the borrower 
into being a guarantor and was horrified as a result of being accepted without proper checks 
on what she could afford being done.
  
Background
Mrs S became the guarantor on a loan of £3,000.00 provided to her son in June 2019. The 
loan was secured by way of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and was due to be repaid 
in 36 instalments of £146.37. The loan had interest of £2,305.18 and the total amount to be 
repaid was £5,305.18.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Buddy Loans hadnt 
carried out proportionate checks before lending and that such checks would more likely than 
not have shown Buddy Loans, neither the borrower nor Mrs S would be able to sustainably 
repay the loan. Buddy Loans disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.    
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance, good industry practice and the key questions we consider 
when looking at guarantor loan complaints - on our website. And Ive referred to this when 
deciding Mrs S complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, Im upholding Mrs S complaint.
The rules and regulations in place when Buddy Loans lent to the borrower required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay this loan 
in a sustainable manner. The existence of a guarantee and indemnity agreement and the 
potential for Buddy Loans to pursue Mrs S, instead of the borrower, for the loan payments 
doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
As the borrower isnt a party to this complaint, I dont have any evidence of the checks that 
Buddy Loans carried out, or the depth that they went into, before it agreed to lend to the 
borrower. But the lack of information from both Buddy Loans and the borrower on this matter 
doesnt lessen the problem here, as Buddy Loans is seeking to enforce the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement. And Mrs S has been called upon to make the payments. 
In any event, notwithstanding the conclusions reached by our investigator and for reasons Ill 
go on to explain further on, I dont think that this matters too much in this case. And as this is 
the case, I dont think that its necessary for me to make a finding on whether the checks 
Buddy Loans carried out on the borrower were proportionate. I say this despite the 
considerable weight of information Mrs S has provided about the borrower and Buddy Loans 
is seeking to enforce the guarantee against Mrs S. And both of these factors are indications 
that the monthly loan payments may have been unaffordable for the borrower in the first 
place. 
The reason I dont consider it necessary to make a finding on whether the borrower should 
have been provided with the loan is because Im satisfied that Mrs S should never have 
been accepted as a guarantor on this loan. I say this because as well as carrying out 
reasonable checks to establish that the borrower could afford to make the repayments, 
Buddy Loans also needed to carry out similar enquiries into Mrs S circumstances to check 
that shed be able to make the payments to this loan in the event she had to.
As I understand it, Buddy Loans enquiries suggested that Mrs S was on a pension with an 
income of £1,120.00. Although it appears to me that that £120 of this may well have been a 
contribution from the borrower and its difficult to imagine this being available in the event he 
wasnt available to make loan payments. So Im mindful that Mrs S was on a relatively low 
fixed income. Furthermore, the credit check carried out on Mrs S showed at least one 
missed payment and in the description of her credit score said she had a high-credit limit 
utilisation on her accounts. Bearing in mind this combination of factors, I think that Buddy 
Loans needed to find out more about Mrs S circumstances and take steps to verify her 
income and expenditure. 
Had this information been requested, Buddy Loans would more likely than not have 
discovered that Mrs S was also already the guarantor on a guarantor loan, which had 
recently been taken out by the borrower. And bearing in mind that the borrowers inability or 
unwillingness to make the payments on one of these loans would be a reasonable indication 
of his position on the others, I think there was always a reasonable possibility Mrs S would 
be called on to make payments on both guarantor loans, which she couldnt afford to do 
while meeting her non-discretionary expenditure, should one of the guarantees have been 
enforced. 
In these circumstances, I think that Buddy Loans ought to have realised that Mrs S simply 
wasnt in a position to act as a guarantor on this loan. And as this is the case, I think that 
Buddy Loans failure to properly look into Mrs S circumstances meant that it unfairly 
accepted her as the guarantor on this loan.      
As Mrs S is, at least, being expected to make payments to a loan that she shouldnt have 
been accepted as a guarantor on, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
Buddy Loans did wrong. And Im satisfied that Buddy Loans needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Buddy Loans needs to do to put things right for Mrs S
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs S complaint for Buddy Loans to put things right by:
releasing Mrs S from all obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement 
and then terminating it;
refunding any loan payments that Mrs S may have made;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the above payments from the date they 
were paid by Mrs S, if they were, to the date of settlement;
removing any information recorded on Mrs S credit file as a result of this loan; HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs S complaint. Advancis Limited should put 
things right for Mrs S in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman