DRN-2141857
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Nissan Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr P under a hire purchase agreement with Nissan Finance that 
he signed in September 2019. He returned the car to the dealer in November 2019 because 
of an additive issue. He returned the car to the dealer again in January 2020 because of an 
engine management warning light and a diesel particulate filter issue was identified so a 
temperature sensor was replaced. 
Mr P then complained to Nissan Finance and said that he wanted to reject the car. It said 
that the car had been repaired under warranty so Mr P couldnt reject it. He wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P and that it was fair for him to be 
able to reject it. He recommended that Nissan Finance should refund Mr Ps deposit, with 
interest, and the £99 that hed paid for a report on the car. He also recommended that it 
should refund to Mr P the monthly payments that hed made under the agreement, other 
than the first seven payments, with interest.
Nissan Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
provided a detailed response from the dealer which says, in summary, that:
there was a successful warranty repair to the car in January 2020;
an additive issue was cleared up in June 2020 which was caused by the car not 
being driven as per the manufacturers recommendations; and
it doesnt consider that the car should be rejected as theres no manufacturing defect.
Mr P says that there continue to be issues with car, including a grinding noise from the 
clutch, and hes provided photos showing that the car is displaying a warning about a 
stop/start system fault and that its mileage earlier this month was 11,259.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Nissan Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr P was a new car that had a price of £30,578.40 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr P returned the car to the dealer in November 2019 because of an additive issue 
and in January 2020 because of an engine management warning light and a diesel 
particulate filter issue was identified  the diesel particulate filter temperature sensor 
was replaced under warranty; 
Mr P returned the car to the dealer in June 2020 and paid £99 for some investigatory 
work  the invoice says: Investigated into EML on dash, fault recorded and Mr P 
was quoted £275 for a diesel particulate filter regeneration with an oil and filter 
change;
Mr P returned the car to the dealer in January 2021 because of a warning light about 
an additive and it was identified that the battery required replacement  so it was 
replaced under the cars warranty;
Mr P has provided a photo showing that theres now a fault with the cars stop/start 
system;
Nissan Finances final response letter in February 2020 shows that Mr P had 
complained to it about issues with an engine management light and the stop/start 
function  repairs have been made to the car but Mr P has provided evidence to 
show that hes continued to have issues with the cars additives, diesel particulate 
filter and stop/start function  and hes also complained about a grinding noise from 
the clutch;
the dealer says that the issues with the diesel particulate filter are caused by the car 
not being driven as per the manufacturers recommendations  but Im not persuaded 
that Nissan Finance has provided enough evidence to show that Mr P isnt driving the 
car correctly or that the issues with the car are caused by his driving style;
I dont consider that the repair in January 2020 has dealt with all of the faults with the 
car and nor do I consider it to be reasonable to expect a new car that cost 
£30,578.40 to have so many recurring issues within eighteen months of being 
supplied;
I consider that the car isnt as durable as it was reasonable for Mr P to expect it to be 
and that, for that reasons, its more likely than not the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr P; and
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mr P to be able to reject the car and for 
Nissan Finance to take the actions set out below.
Putting things right
I find that Nissan Finance should end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car 
to be collected from Mr P  both at no cost to him. I find that it should also remove any 
information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ps credit file.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr P made an advance payment of £5,250 for the 
car but Mr P says that he paid a deposit of £2,500 and there was a contribution from the 
dealer of £2,750 (and that is confirmed by the invoice that Mr P has provided). I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Nissan Finance to refund to Mr P the deposit that he paid 
for the car, with interest.
Mr P has been able to use the car to drive 11,259 miles since September 2019 but its clear 
that his use of the car has been affected by the issues with it. Our investigator recommended 
that Nissan Finance should refund to Mr P all but seven of the monthly payments that hes 
made under the agreement, with interest. I consider it to be fair and reasonable for Mr P to 
pay for the use that hes had from the car so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Nissan Finance to refund to him all of the monthly payments 
that hes made. I consider that our investigators recommendation was fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances so I find that Nissan Finance should refund to Mr P all but seven of the 
monthly payments that hes made under the agreement, with interest. It can keep the seven 
monthly payments as payment for the use that hes had from the car.
Mr P paid £99 in June 2020 for the dealer to investigate a fault with the car. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Nissan Finance to reimburse him for the cost of the report, 
with interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I order RCI Financial Services Limited, 
trading as Nissan Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr P  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr P the deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Pay £99 to Mr P to reimburse him for the cost of the investigation.
4. Refund to Mr P all but the first seven of the monthly payments that hes made 
under the agreement.
5. Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3 and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
6. Remove all information about the agreement from Mr Ps credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Nissan Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 5 above. Nissan Finance must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman