DRN-2137779
The complaint
Mr G, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains about investment 
advice provided to him by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
In 2006 Mr G was advised to start an investment ISA. It was recommended that he invest 
£50 per month into the Momentum Income Portfolio  a cautious risk fund of funds. Before 
starting the ISA, he opted to increase the monthly payment to £200. Hes maintained the ISA 
since then, making a couple of withdrawals in 2010 and 2011. 
Mr Gs CMC complained to Lloyds in 2019 about the advice, saying it was generally 
unsuitable and, as an income portfolio, it wasnt appropriate for Mr Gs objective of capital 
growth. The CMC also said the recommendation lacked diversity and was unnecessarily 
costly. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said the recommendation was consistent with Mr Gs 
needs and circumstances and that, as a cautious portfolio, it appropriately reflected his lack 
of investment experience. It explained that the portfolio was available in accumulation and 
distribution units, so it met Mr Gs requirement for growth rather than income. It also 
confirmed that all the related charges had been communicated to him.  
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator also concluded that it 
shouldnt be upheld. She agreed that the recommendation had been suitable and consistent 
with Mr Gs attitude to risk. She confirmed that the portfolio was suitable for growth as well 
as income and felt that as a fund of funds it was sufficiently diversified across a range of 
assets, concentrating primarily on bonds as opposed to equities. She said the charges had 
been made clear and were in line with what shed expect to see. 
The CMC didnt accept the investigators view, saying that it was beyond doubt that Mr G 
had been exposed to substantial unnecessary risks and costs and that this was what had 
caused the poor return hed received.   
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G had never invested before receiving advice from Lloyds in 2006. At the time he was in 
his early 40s, married, working full-time and with one dependent child. He had savings on 
deposit and disposable income that he wanted to commit to an environment where he might 
achieve a better return than deposit rates. 
Given these circumstances Im satisfied Mr G was likely to have been a cautious investor 
and the recommendation of the Momentum Portfolio was therefore a suitable one. As noted, 
it was a diversified fund of funds that concentrated mainly on bonds but with some equity 
exposure and this seems consistent with Mr G lack of experience of risk-based investments.  
Committing a monthly amount rather than a lump sum further reduced the risk, and while I 
note that Mr G increased the amount of the monthly contributions, it appears that this was 
his decision, which wouldnt have created any affordability issues as he wouldve been able 
to reduce the contributions if necessary. 
The fund factsheet made clear that while the product was called the Momentum Income 
Portfolio, it was suitable for a capital growth objective. And in respect of the charges, while 
there may have been cheaper products available, that doesnt, in itself, render the advice 
unsuitable. It appears that the charges were made clear to Mr G as part of the 
recommendation.  
In summary, Im satisfied this was a suitable recommendation and theres nothing to indicate 
that Lloyds acted incorrectly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman