DRN-3878718
The complaint
Mr D complains on behalf of his mothers (Mrs Ds) estate about Brown Shipley & Co 
Limited, referred to as the business. 
In summary, he says his mother was given unsuitable investment advice, guidance, and 
support in respect of her Isle of Man Assurance (IOMA) Estate Transfer Bond (referred to as 
the bond)  which is made up of a number of mini-bonds  resulting in a substantial 
Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability. 
 
To put things right, hed like the business to pay the outstanding IHT liability and pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. 
What happened
In 2008, Mrs D received advice in relation to IHT mitigation which she in due course 
followed. Part of that advice included investing in the bond.  
In 2021, Mr D says he contacted the investment provider and discovered that the business 
told Mrs D to defer the maturity date of her mini-bonds, which effectively meant the bonds 
would form part of her estate, against her objectives.  
Mr D complained to the business about the advice Mrs D received since 2008, but the 
business didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said the recommendation was suitable and 
met Mrs Ds objectives for IHT mitigation. It also said that the fees charged werent for 
ongoing advice and that Mrs D had chosen not to receive ongoing advice. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business made recommendations based on the information provided by Mrs D. It 
was recorded that she was in her early 60s, retired, with some investment 
experience. It was also recorded that she was divorced with one non-dependent son 
and in good health.
At the time, Mrs Ds estate was worth around £2,487,000. She held £1,971,000 in 
bank accounts and wanted to utilise £1,912,000 leaving an emergency fund of 
£59,000. 
She was assessed as having a low to balanced attitude to risk. The bond tended to 
be low risk, so matched her attitude to risk. 
The recommendations matched all her objectives, and not just mitigating IHT. In 
other words, it also matched Mrs Ds recorded objectives for maintaining long term 
security, and immediate income and ensuing that her IHT planning wouldnt impact 
her future IHT position whilst maintaining flexibility with IHT planning.  
With no intervention Mrs Ds IHT bill was likely to be £870,000. In order to mitigate 
this liability, she was advised to invest in the bond, the aim of which was to reduce 
the potential IHT liability to £505,182. 
Mr D confirmed that after Mrs D passed away the IHT liability was around £518,000. 
Although it wasnt the exact figure, the overall reduction was in line with Mrs Ds 
objective. 
By investing in the bond, Mrs D retained the ability to gift mini-bonds to her 
beneficiaries or use the funds on maturity if she needed to. She could also choose 
the maturity date for the mini-bonds. 
On maturity Mrs D had the option to defer or withdraw the proceeds of the specific 
mini-bonds. It was made clear to her in the suitability report that the mini-bonds 
would be treated like a potentially exempt transfer (PET) but shed have to survive 
seven years from the beginning of the plan for it to be exempt of IHT. The investment 
acted as a PET and was subject to the same rules, proving that the maturity date 
wasnt changed during this period. 
The suitability report made clear the following:
oThe mini-bonds within the trust are free of IHT provided you live for more 
than seven years after starting the plan (and assuming that no maturity dates 
have been rolled- over within this period). 
The business also provided a copy of the product reference guide which made clear 
the following:
oBond maturities are set up at outset by the Donor but can be deferred. Any 
deferred maturities are deemed a new PET. Nil income tax.
In the circumstances its likely that Mrs D was aware that deferring the maturity of the 
mini-bonds would result in the bond not being completely free of IHT liability. 
Other options were discussed, such as making PETs directly to Mr D but Mrs D didnt 
want to pursue that course of action, presumably because shed have control over 
the assts, and the funds would go on to form part of Mr Ds estate and be subject to 
IHT  increasing his potential IHT liability. 
On balance, its likely Mrs D did understand how the bond operated and the risks 
involved. 
Mrs Ds overall aim of reducing her IHT liability was achieved. Just because there 
were alternative vehicles, doesnt mean the recommendation was wrong. 
The business also made clear that Mrs D didnt show any intention to pursue a zero 
IHT strategy and there was no suggestion that she was unhappy with the 
recommendation made.   
Theres no evidence that she wanted ongoing advice, and none was given. The 
business confirmed that the fees charged were for investment management rather 
than wealth planning advice. 
The business spreadsheet shows that fees charged varied depending on the quarter, 
and they were percentages of the fund, rather than being fixed. Hes not seen 
anything that suggests fees were paid for ongoing advice. 
In 2016, Mrs D was told about her options, but theres no suggestion she was 
advised to take a particular course of action, or that she wanted advice. 
In other words, theres no evidence that Mrs D wanted to sign up for ongoing advice. 
Theres also no evidence that she signed up for and/or paid for a service that she 
didnt receive. 
Hes unable to award any compensation to Mr D as the representative of the estate. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
He doesnt accept that the investigators view is a fair assessment of the situation. 
Despite the investigators findings (primarily based on what the business says), hes 
still not satisfied that Mrs D wasnt paying for ongoing advice. And if she wasnt, he 
cant see how this product was suitable without ongoing advice in line with COBS 
9.2.1 or Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) Outcome 4.
His own research shows that the bond is a complex inheritance tax planning vehicle 
whose ultimate success or failure is determined by decisions made each year. Having spoken to independent financial advisers, theyve advised that they only sell 
this product as part of ongoing financial advice. 
The fact that the bonds own overview guide is marked For consideration by 
professional advisers only. Not for distribution to the general public makes clear this 
product if for those individuals with a financial adviser to provide advice throughout 
the lifetime of the investment. He understands that the investment provider wont 
allow investors to take out the bond unless they have a financial adviser.  
If the business knew that Mrs D didnt want ongoing advice, a logical application of 
COBS 9.2.1 and TCF Outcome 4 must mean that the recommendation is 
unsuitable. 
The complaint is about the suitability of the advice at the time, not in hindsight, based 
on a reduction in the IHT bill as stated by the investigator.  
He cant see the relevance of the investigator saying: there was no suggestion that 
your late mother was unhappy with the recommendation. It appears to imply that a 
laypersons subjective perception could somehow determine whether or not a 
professional adviser met their obligation. 
He doesnt accept that the recommendation met Mrs Ds attitude to risk. Low to 
balanced appears to be a broad range, so which end of the catch-all spectrum did it 
match? 
It appears that the portfolio may have been made up of as much as 80% equity 
content. 
He doesnt agree with the investigator that the bond  made up of single premium 
mini bonds  is a lower risk investment. Its his understanding that the bonds referred 
to by the investigator  into which different types of investments may be placed  
could just as easily hold highly speculative investments, as they could hold low to 
balanced risk ones. I disagree because, low to balanced risk doesnt include highly 
speculative investments and Ive seen no evidence to persuade me that it did in this 
instance. 
In terms of investment knowledge and experience the suggestion that she had some 
investment experience is vague and unquantified in terms of whether or a person will 
be able to understand the risk associated with a recommendation for a complex 
financial solution. 
Mrs Ds investment experience was best described as nil. She didnt work and 
inherited the money from Mr Ds father. As noted by the parties she held vast 
majority of her wealth in bank accounts. 
The recommendation wasnt suitable given her knowledge and experience in the 
investment field relevant to the specific type of designated investment or service. In 
relation to COBS 9.2.3. The business failed to take into account the following:
othe type of service, transaction and designated investment with which the 
client is familiar;
othe nature, volume, frequency of the clients transaction in designated 
investments and the period over which they have been carried out, and 
othe level of education, profession or relevant profession of the client.   
Despite what the investigator says, in the circumstances he questions whether Mrs D 
wouldve understood much, if any, of the technical information.  
Hes sceptical of the ongoing fees charged by the business. Either Mrs D paid for a 
service, she didnt receive, or she was sold a product that was unsuitable. The 
business is still reluctant to provide a breakdown of fees. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons, Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably, such that this complaint should be upheld. In 
other words, I cant say that the business provided unsuitable investment advice such that it 
is responsible for paying the outstanding IHT liability claimed. Im conscious that the 
business was only tasked with mitigating Mrs Ds potential IHT liability not eradicating it 
altogether. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D says Im not persuaded that 
Mrs D wanted ongoing advice or that she was paying for it. Furthermore, her not 
wanting/having ongoing financial advice doesnt mean that the recommendation to invest in 
the bond for IHT purposes was unsuitable.  
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mr D  on behalf of his mothers estate  has about this matter. Im 
also very sorry for the loss of his mother. 
Mr D has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr D and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case  Im 
not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
Im aware Mr D has questions about why the business acted in the way that it did, but my not 
answering all of these questions doesnt prevent me from reaching a fair decision in this 
case.
 
Its always difficult for an executor to retrospectively piece together what went on with a 
business in the past, over a period and why. Especially when theyve not been privy to 
discussions between the investor and the business. It can be made even more difficult when 
the available evidence doesnt make sense or satisfy them, because they mightve done 
things differently. Sadly, we dont have the first-hand account of Mrs D. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr D says, I cant safely say that 
the business behaved unreasonably. In other words, I dont have the evidence to enable me 
to conclude, on a balance of probabilities, that the business did anything wrong, or that it 
didnt do what it was asked to do when financial advice was sought by Mrs D relating to 
mitigating her potential IHT liability.  Im mindful that Mr D wasnt privy to any of the discussions at the time. Despite what he 
says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs D wanted/needed him there, or that she was 
incapable of making her own decisions and managing her own affairs, certainly not until she 
lost capacity around late 2020, when Mr D was granted Power of Attorney. 
I note Mr D says he cant see the relevance of the investigator saying: there was no 
suggestion that your late mother was unhappy with the recommendation. But on balance I 
think if Mrs D was concerned with the advice she received over the years, she wouldve 
raised an issue with the business at the time. I appreciate that not raising an issue doesnt of 
itself mean that the advice was suitable or that she didnt have issues  but in this instance, 
and on balance, it suggests that Mrs D was content with the advice she received and the 
choices she made, and that it was broadly in line with her aims and objectives. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not the business did what it was asked to do, when 
IHT was evidently a concern at the forefront of Mrs Ds mind. I note Mr D says that the sole 
objective of his mother engaging the business was to reduce the potential IHT liability  
which on balance I think the business fulfilled. 
Having considered the issue and having made the relevant recommendations, which I dont 
think were unsuitable for the reasons set out by the investigator  Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the portfolio was made up of as much as 80% equity content. In my opinion 
what Mrs D decided to do in future  particularly with regards to deferring the maturity of the 
mini-bonds  was quite rightly left to her. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs D was risk averse or that she was generally incapable 
of understanding risk. I dont think there was anything wrong with Mrs D being advised to 
take a risk with her money  and invest in a product that tended to be a low risk product  to 
achieve her objective. Although its not entirely clear what the business meant by low to 
balanced risk, it could be argued that this was the equivalent of a lower risk in the ordinary 
sense. I note she was in her early 60s, divorced with a non-dependant son and access to a 
substantial sum of money so was in a good position to invest and take some risk to achieve 
her aim. Just because she might not have had similar previous experience doesnt mean the 
recommendation  made for a specific purpose  was unsuitable.
I note what Mr D says about deferring the bonds, and how that might increase/postpone the 
IHT liability  because each bond deferred is treated as a new gift  but as I said above, Mrs 
D was able to do whatever she pleased. In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely 
say that the business advised Mrs D (in due course) to take a particular course of action, 
other than providing information about her options. 
On balance Im satisfied that Mrs D, of her own volition, chose to defer the maturity dates of 
the mini-bonds in question. I agree with the investigator that she probably did this to maintain 
control over the bond and keep them invested  there wasnt anything to suggest that she 
might not survive another seven years. 
I dont agree with Mr D that the arrangement put in place required expert financial planning 
decisions in order for it to meet Mrs Ds objectives. If she required ongoing or further advice 
because she was unsure of what to do, she couldve requested this  apart from contacting 
the business in 2016 when she wanted to discuss two options further  she didnt. I note the 
business maintains that she did not wish to engage us on a regular basis to receive 
ongoing wealth planning advice which suggests that she was probably comfortable making 
her own decisions. I note the business also says that Mrs D preferred to utilise its services 
for investment management only after the bond was set up. 
Whilst I appreciate what Mr D says about the cost of the advice/service provided, a businessis entitled  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement  to set its
own fees, as long as it has made this reasonably clear to its customers, which I believe the 
business has on this occasion. Its not for us to tell a business what it should charge for 
advice/services provided. 
I appreciate Mr D feels that the fees charged shouldve included ongoing advice, I note he 
says:
To suggest that despite paying such a large annual fee to Brown Shipley my mother did not 
wish to receive ongoing wealth planning advice is fanciful in the extreme. The further 
suggestion that this substantial fee was entirely for the facilitation of arranging her 
underlying monies in line with her attitude to risk is merely an attempt to deflect from the 
fact that they failed to provide anything approaching an adequate service. 
Despite what Mr D says, the fees and the service provided, can be mutually exclusive. In 
other words, a more expensive fee structure doesnt of itself mean that ongoing advice will 
be automatically included. In this instance the business not doing so doesnt mean that it has 
done anything wrong or that the business has behaved unreasonably. 
Based on what the business says, it seems that Mrs D was prepared and evidently willing to 
pay the fees but didnt want ongoing advice. I mindful that Mr D accepts the fees charged 
fluctuated depending on the value of the underlying product  and that a portion of the costs 
his mother incurred related to underlying products such as a SIPP admin fee and a bond 
admin fee  but hes nevertheless still unhappy about the amount of fees she was paying 
each year. Despite what he says its likely that Mrs D didnt want to pay additional fees for 
ongoing advice, on top of fees she was already paying, and she was content with matters. 
The above notwithstanding, Im mindful that Mr D only questioned the suitability of the advice 
and the fees only after Mrs D passed away, and the outstanding IHT liability became clear. 
On balance, it could be argued that whilst Mr D, on reflection, isnt happy about the fees 
paid, Mrs D had no such concerns throughout the life of the bond.  
Despite what Mr D says, if Mrs D didnt understand or disagreed with the fees, she couldve 
raised an issue with the adviser at the time, or decided not to go ahead with the 
recommendation at any point within the cancellation period, but she didnt. 
Im mindful the investigator says it was recorded that Mrs D had some investment 
experience, which Mr D disagrees with. Even if she didnt have any experience, I dont think 
it means the recommendation is automatically unsuitable, or that she didnt understand the 
general nature and operation of the bond. In any case, I cant say that Mrs D was unfamiliar 
with concept of fees and paying for services. 
Despite what Mr D says, Im not persuaded that the business was obliged to voluntarily give 
ongoing advice, regardless of the fees, because this didnt include (additional) payment for 
that particular service. I dont think that of itself throws into question the suitability of the 
initial advice as suggested by Mr D, and despite what he says, Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that the recommendation wasnt suitable, or that it didnt take into account Mrs Ds 
preferences in terms of what she hoped to achieve. 
The fact that the recommendation required Mrs D to take future action  but she still didnt 
want ongoing advice  doesnt of itself automatically render the recommendation unsuitable. 
On balance Im satisfied the advice met her objective, but it also meant shed have to take 
some action herself. As I mentioned above, if Mrs D felt incapable of deciding, I think its 
more likely than not she wouldve asked for advice.  Despite what Mr D says about what other advisers would do, in this instance I think the 
business wouldve been wrong to force Mrs D to take, and pay for, additional advice, if she 
didnt want to.  
On the face of the evidence, I think its likely that alternatives  such as gifting money  was 
considered but it wasnt something that Mrs D was interested in. The fact that there were 
alternative vehicles for mitigating tax  even if they didnt require additional action  doesnt 
mean that the recommendation was unsuitable. As I said above, I dont agree that this bond 
required Mrs D to have a detailed understanding of taxation and the principle or deferring the 
maturity date of the mini-bonds and the consequences of doing so in my opinion wasnt 
complicated such that specialist knowledge was required.   
Im also mindful that at no point did the business advise/guarantee that the IHT liability would 
be completely eradicated. I note it even suggested Mrs D could consider taking out a whole 
of life plan to cover any remining IHT liability, but she didnt. On the face of the evidence it 
would seem that Mrs D wasnt interested in completely reducing her IHT liability to zero 
rather than mitigating any potential liability. 
I note the opening paragraph of the 2008 Financial Planning Report (FPR) states:
We estimate that should you effect a combination of the ideas set out in this report, it will be 
possible to reduce your Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability from its current level of approximately 
£869,982 to £505,182 (subject to the length of time that you survive any planning).
I note what Mr D says about the document he referred to  for consideration by professional 
advisers only. Not for distribution to the general public  but this doesnt in my opinion mean 
that this product is only for those who have a financial adviser throughout the lifetime of the 
investment to make appropriate decisions, because it doesnt. 
Despite what Mr D says, Ive seen no such pre-requisite from the business, the investment 
provider or the FCA. In other words, theres no such stipulation that this was a condition of 
sale. I note, Mr D following his own research says he understands that the investment 
provider wont allow investors to take out the bond unless they have a financial adviser  Im 
conscious Mrs D did have a financial adviser, but chose not to have ongoing advice, 
therefore I cant see why Mrs D shouldnt have been recommended the bond.     
Despite what Mr D says about his logical application of COBS 9.2.1 and TCF Outcome 4  I 
dont agree for the reason Ive just explained, and theres no requirement for a business to 
refuse to sell a product because an investor doesnt want ongoing advice, which generally 
costs more and is ultimately a personal choice. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, 
it seems Mrs D knew what she wanted. 
Despite what Mr D says, in this instance I dont think it was for the adviser to establish why 
Mrs D did what she did by deferring the bonds. I think its unlikely she wouldve done 
anything she wasnt comfortable with. Its possible that she amended her priorities, and its 
likely IHT wasnt her only objective  but it wasnt for the business to determine her priorities, 
that was a matter for her. As Mr D wasnt present during the initial discussions, or participant 
to the subsequent decisions, I dont think its fair to draw certain conclusions as he has done 
regarding the role and actions of the business.
On balance I think Mrs D knew, or ought reasonably to have known the consequences of 
deferring the maturity, and the likely impact of this on any future IHT liability. I dont think 
there was much more the business couldve done, and by not doing something different I 
dont think the business has acted unfairly contrary principle 6 of the FCA principles that 
businesses are required to adhere to. Im not persuaded that Mrs D was forced to do something that she didnt want to do, or that she was dissuaded from pursuing her 
objectives. 
Whilst its not (unequivocally) clear now why Mrs D did what she did, despite what Mr D says 
Im unable to say that this was as a result of anything done by the business. In other words, 
on balance I think it was a result of Mrs Cs own decisions at the time. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that she wanted everything held in trust, and its possible that she still wanted 
control and access to her investments and money.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, despite what Mr D says, I dont think the business 
was wrong not to specifically advice Mrs D to do something  other than what she wanted  
because it had no authority to. 
The above notwithstanding, the business isnt a specialist tax adviser, however, it could offer 
advice regarding steps Mrs D could take to help reduce her IHT liability  which is what it 
did. This doesnt of itself make the business a tax specialist, and the two points arent 
mutually exclusive. In other words, at no point did the business say that it couldnt offer IHT 
mitigation advice, and therefore it was under no obligation to advise Mrs D to go elsewhere 
or do anything different. 
I note theres a potentially an issue with the business providing/not providing documentation 
but that doesnt mean that the complaint on behalf of the estate of Mrs D should be upheld. 
Whilst I dont doubt that Mr D has suffered distress and inconvenience dealing with his 
mothers estate, I should make clear that under the rules governing our service, Mr D (as the 
executor and representative) as well as his mothers estate, arent entitled to any 
compensation for distress and inconvenience even if I had upheld the complaint.
Im aware Mr D thinks that hes eligible to receive significant compensation in the sum of 
around £4,500. But I can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset 
experienced by its customer  where it has done something wrong  not to a third party. So, 
his mothers estate would only be entitled to compensation for financial loss  if I had found 
the business had done something wrong  and Mr D isnt entitled to any compensation 
personally in any circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr D  on behalf of his mothers estate  will be thoroughly unhappy Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he 
wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his deep frustration and anguish, Im not going to ask 
the business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give the estate of Mrs D, and Mr D, what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman