DRN-3576216
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse payments sent from her account 
which she didnt authorise. 
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
In July 2021, Mrs S received a WhatsApp message from someone pretending to be 
Monzo. The message stated that Monzo wanted to help safeguard her account. 
Mrs S didnt reply to the message and, the next day, she received a phone call in 
relation to this. When she refused to go through verification, the caller warned her 
that Monzo would block her PIN until the process was completed. Mrs S then 
received text messages from Monzo informing her that her PIN had been blocked.
Mrs S tried to phone Monzo but hung up and initiated an in-app chat instead. When 
she didnt get a reply, Mrs S responded to the WhatsApp message and started the 
safeguarding process as per instructions. Mrs S received a text message stating that 
her account had been unblocked, but subsequently she was unable to access the 
Monzo app. She was told on a WhatsApp message that shed have access to the 
app and once the verification process was complete.
Mrs S phoned Monzo the next morning and learnt that several payments had been 
made, leaving her account with a minimal balance. She realised that shed been a 
victim of fraud and reported this to Monzo. It agreed that the payments werent 
authorised by Mrs S, but said that she hadnt acted with reasonable care. Monzo said 
that Mrs S had shared her personal information, namely her card details and PIN, 
and the email containing the login link. Monzo didnt reimburse the payments but paid 
£15 compensation in recognition of the delay Mrs S experienced in receiving a 
response to her in-app chat message.
The matter was then referred to our service and our investigator didnt agree with 
Monzo that Mrs Ss actions met the test for gross negligence as stipulated under the 
regulations. Monzo disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mrs S isnt liable for 
payments she didnt authorise, unless she failed with intent or gross negligence to 
comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe.
Its accepted by both parties that the disputed payments werent authorised by Mrs S. 
It hasnt been suggested that Mrs S failed with intent, and I agree as I dont think she 
failed with intent to keep her security details safe. Her actions were that of someone 
who was intending to protect their money from fraud.
I acknowledge that some of Mrs Ss actions were negligent. And that she did share 
personalised security information which, in isolation, many people might not have. In 
particular, sharing her PIN which is more commonly recognised as something that a 
bank wouldnt ask for. But I must look at what happened to Mrs S in full and the 
circumstances of the scam as a whole, not in isolated parts. Having carefully 
considered the context in which the information was shared, I dont find that Mrs S 
failed with gross negligence to keep her security details safe. 
Monzo submits that Mrs S didnt pay heed to an earlier scam warning it gave her 
when it refunded some transactions after shed been scammed. Ive carefully 
considered Monzos comments, but Im not persuaded by its reasoning. The scam at 
the crux of this complaint is different to the earlier one  the scammer purported to be 
from Mrs Ss trusted bank and was already aware that shed previously been a victim 
of fraud. Its worth mentioning that Mrs S didnt engage with the scammer at first. She 
says that she discussed the matter with her husband, and they both seemed unsure 
whether it was Monzo that had contacted her. And it looks like Mrs S did attempt to 
reach out to Monzo before engaging with the scammer. But when she received a text 
from it confirming that her PIN had been blocked just as the scammer had warned, 
Mrs S genuinely believed that shed been contacted by Monzo and that it was taking 
steps to safeguard her money.
As Mrs S was then satisfied that she was communicating with her bank, I cant fairly 
say that it was unreasonable that she complied with its request to provide certain 
personal information requested, including her PIN. I think that many people would 
have followed the instructions and complied with what they were being asked. 
Especially in the context of (in their mind) protecting their money from fraudsters. 
Indeed, weve seen many others whove acted in the same way that Mrs S did. 
Ive seen that theres a warning in the email containing the login link that says not to 
share it with anyone, including Monzo. But it looks like Mrs S was acting quickly, so I 
can see how she may have missed this and focused more on the instructions she 
was given from someone who she thought was trying to help. I dont think Mrs Ss 
actions in that moment  including changing her contact number to a third partys 
phone number  mean that she seriously disregarded an obvious risk. 
Overall, I dont think that Mrs Ss actions fell so far below what a reasonable person 
would have done in the same circumstances such that I think they amount to gross 
negligence. This means that Mrs S isnt liable for the transactions in dispute and 
Monzo needs to put things right for her.
Putting things right
To put things right, I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse Mrs S the unauthorised transactions totalling £1,471.20; and
pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of each unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Monzo Bank 
Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman