DRN-2614777
The complaint
Ms S complains about multiple errors made by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) with 
her mortgage offer. 
What happened
Ms S applied to Halifax for a mortgage to buy a property. Halifax sent a mortgage offer which 
said it expired on 30 April 2019. When Ms S wanted to exchange contracts in mid-April 2019 
Halifax said the product Ms S had chosen was no longer available as it had expired on 31 
March 2019. Ms S had to choose a new product.
Ms S says Halifax made a number of errors which have left her out of pocket. These errors 
delayed her exchanging contracts and she paid additional rent, storage and other costs as a 
result. And the product she had to take out in April 2019 was more expensive than the one 
Halifax had previously offered.
Halifax offered £300 for the confusion caused with the mortgage offer.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties explaining why I thought Halifaxs offer of £300 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In summary, while Halifax did make errors it 
told the broker on 5 April 2019 that Ms S needed to choose a new product. If Ms S didnt do 
this until 18 April, this wasnt due to an error by Halifax.
Ms S didnt agree, and sent detailed comments. In summary, she said if shed been told 
sooner the product would expire by the end of March shed have had time to look at other 
products and lenders. Ms S said she spoke to Halifax several times in April but it didnt tell 
her she needed a new product. It missed chances to put matters right. And Halifaxs 
complaints team had told her this was a known problem with its system.
Ms S said she was trying to exchange contracts between 2 and 18 April 2019. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
What happened?
A broker recommended the mortgage to Ms S and made an application to Halifax on her 
behalf in late 2018. Ms S applied for a fixed interest product which was available until 31 
March 2019. Halifax issued a mortgage offer which expired on 31 March 2019.
Ms Ss purchase fell through. She found another property to buy. Halifax issued a mortgage 
offer for the new property in late February 2019. This expired at the end of April 2019. 
Halifax said the expiry date in the February 2019 offer is an error. It should have said 31 
March 2019, to tie in with the availability of the product. Halifax says the broker should have 
questioned the 30 April expiry date.
I dont think its reasonable for Halifax to send Ms S an offer which states it expires on 30 
April 2019 and expect her  or her broker  to work out that it would actually expire on 31 
March 2019. I think Ms S was entitled to rely on what the mortgage offer said, at least until 
Halifax corrected this. Halifax made Ms Ss broker aware of the error on 5 April 2019.
Ms S says her purchase was protracted as the property needed work following the survey. 
She was ready to exchange contracts in early April 2019. However, her solicitor needed an 
updated mortgage offer as shed moved into rented accommodation and the purchase price 
had changed. There were problems with this: Halifax issued further mortgage offers but 
without the updated information.
The broker called Halifax twice in early April 2019, to update Ms Ss address. I dont think 
the information Halifax gave to the broker during the first call, on 2 April, was sufficiently 
clear for the broker to know that problems in updating the mortgage offer were due to the 
product having expired. But Halifax did give the broker clear information about this during the 
call on 5 April.
On 5 April 2019 the broker called Halifax to update Ms Ss address, so that an updated 
mortgage offer could be issued to allow Ms S to exchange contracts. The Halifax adviser told 
the broker the system wouldnt allow her to choose that product as it expired on 31 March 
2019. She said Ms S would need to choose a new product to get the new mortgage offer.
Ms S chose a new product on 18 April 2019 and exchanged contracts the same day. Ms S 
completed her purchase in early May.
What were the consequences of Halifaxs errors?
Halifax made an error when it issued a mortgage offer with an expiry date of 30 April 2019 
without making it clear that the product Ms S had chosen would expire before this.
If Halifax hadnt made this error, Ms S would have known she needed to complete her 
purchase by 31 March 2019 to benefit from the product she wanted. Theres nothing here to 
suggest that Ms S could have completed by 31 March 2019. So I dont think this error meant 
Ms S missed out on the product she wanted.
Halifax said it would have honoured the mortgage offer if Ms S had completed her purchase 
in April unaware that the product had expired at the end of March. And my decision about a 
fair outcome here might have been different if Ms S had completed her purchase in April 
2019, without being aware of the error in the mortgage offer. But that isnt what happened. 
Ms Ss broker (and then Ms S) were aware the product had expired before exchange of 
contracts. And Ms Ss purchase didnt complete in April 2019.
Ms S said Halifax should be more flexible with the expiry dates in mortgage offers, given that 
house purchases can be delayed. And it shouldnt have recommended a product that ended 
in March 2019. I should note here that Halifax didnt recommend the product: the broker 
gave advice to Ms S. And I think lenders are entitled to put end dates on mortgage offers, 
and indeed products. Ms S says if shed known in February 2019 the product would expire at the end of March she 
could have looked elsewhere. As Ms S has said, we cant know if this would have changed 
matters. She might not have been able to find a better deal elsewhere  and discussions 
between Ms S and the broker in early April suggest this might have been the case. And 
starting a new application elsewhere would have had timing implications.
A new mortgage offer was issued immediately once Ms S chose a new product. If Ms S had 
chosen a new product in early April instead of 18 April, I think shed have received a new 
mortgage offer sooner. 
When it was contacted in early April 2019 Halifax told Ms Ss broker the product had expired 
and Ms S needed to choose a new product. I dont think Halifax is responsible for it being 
nearly two weeks before Ms S chose a new product. So even if waiting for an updated 
mortgage offer was the only reason exchange of contracts (and completion) were delayed, I 
dont think Halifax is primarily responsible for Ms Ss completion being delayed to early May.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think Halifax was responsible for Ms Ss completion being 
delayed into May 2019. So I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Halifax to pay 
compensation for her additional rent and other costs.
I dont think Halifaxs errors are the reason Ms S wasnt able to take out her preferred 
product. To benefit from her preferred product shed have had to complete her purchase by 
31 March 2019, and theres no suggestion this was possible. So I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Halifax to apply the terms of Ms Ss preferred product to her mortgage.
Putting things right
Ive no doubt though that Ms S was upset to find out she needed to choose a new product in 
April 2019  and this was why she hadnt received an updated mortgage offer. The 
confusion around the expiry of the product and mortgage offer did cause inconvenience, 
during a property purchase which is often stressful. Halifax offered £300 compensation and I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc should pay £300 to Ms S, as it offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman