DRN-4049207
The complaint
Mr P makes the following main complaints about HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct:
as an HSBC customer he was mis-sold a Sharedealing account by first direct 
the Sharedealing account did not have a share spend limit, only an overdraft limit that 
could be exceeded
his Sharedealing account should not have been de-linked from his first direct 
1st account and his ability to trade on the share dealing account blocked as this was 
separate from his 1st account and, as an HSBC customer, he should have had that 
protection
the debt that first direct is asking him to repay is incorrect and he is unhappy that first 
direct have not proceeded with his proposed payment plan
he is unhappy with the amount of phone calls received from first direct
he disagrees with HSBC chasing him about the debt since his account was with first 
direct.
To put things right, Mr P wants HSBC to accept it has failed in its duty of care to him and 
agree that the sum it is demanding should be limited to a maximum of £500  the overdraft 
limit on his (now closed) 1st Account. 
What happened
19 July 2017 - Mr P applied online via the firstdirect.com website and opened a 1st Account 
with first direct with an overdraft facility of £500. 
31 July 2017 - Mr P applied for a Sharedealing account via the website. An application form 
was sent to him.
4 Aug 2017  first direct received the completed Sharedealing application form and Mr Ps 
Sharedealing account was opened. This allowed Mr P to buy and sell shares up to a trading 
limit and his Sharedealing account was linked to his 1st Account, which was used to pay for 
shares Mr P purchased using his Sharedealing account.
2018/2019  Mr P used his 1st Account to make Sharedealing trades and to balance the 
debit position of the Sharedealing account following purchases.
June 2020  Mr Ps 1st Account went into a debit balance that was more than twice his £500 
overdraft limit on the account. As Mr P continued to place trades, the debit balance 
increased over the course of the following months.
July 2020  after Mr Ps 1st Account had been over its limit for more than 30 days, first direct 
took steps to engage with Mr P about the debit balance. Over the next year or so there were 
various phone calls and written communications between Mr P and first direct about this, 
culminating in Mr P complaining about what happened.
24 May 2021  Mr Ps Sharedealing account was blocked to stop any future trades causing 
the uncorrected debit balance on the 1st Account to go any higher. 
June 2021  first direct didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In brief summary, it said it was 
entitled to put blocks on accounts if it felt the account terms and conditions were not being 
met and explained that the Sharedealing account came with a trading limit similar to a credit 
limit and was a lending facility. It also explained that funds were debited from the 1st Account 
within two working days to balance the deficit on the Sharedealing account and that this 
timescale allowed the customer time to ensure funds were available for the settlement to be 
made. It said Mr Ps Sharedealing account was blocked on 24 May 2021 to prevent future 
trades due to the remaining uncorrected debit position on his 1st Account. first direct 
confirmed to Mr P what hed been told over the phone several times  that it would need to 
understand his financial position better before it could accept his proposed repayment plan 
as it was required to ensure this would be affordable for him before agreeing to it.  
Mr P continued to correspond with first direct, expressing a wish to resolve matters between 
himself and the bank.
23 Aug 2021  after he failed to make contact with first directs Financial Support Team to 
discuss a payment plan or complete a budget planner, Mr Ps 1st Account was transferred to 
HSBC Repayment Services, who then contacted him to discuss repayment options. 

September/October 2021 - Mr P continued to communicate his concerns to first direct, 
emailing its Chief Executive Officer saying it had sold him a Sharedealing account without 
safeguards, for its own ends. He complained that his repayment plan had been ignored and 
said hed been called four times from overseas, causing him stress. He didnt feel his 
1st Account should have been reported to credit reference agencies and that first direct 
shouldnt have allowed his 1st Account to exceed his £500 overdraft facility. He said phone 
calls about the amount owing on his 1st Account amounted to harassment and were illegal. 
Mr P came to us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.
Our investigator felt that HSBC hadnt made any error or treated Mr P unfairly and didnt 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator and, in brief summary, amongst other comments, he 
mentioned the following:
as he has no account with HSBC it should withdraw from this matter
first direct piled in and was too quick to chase him on the first working day after the 
investigator had phoned him to say she was closing this complaint
the density of the phone calls he continues to receive, on both his mobile and 
landline, including at weekends and in the early evening, breach the Harassment Act 
1997.  
The complaint comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate that Mr P feels very strongly about his complaint and I understand this has all 
been stressful for him. But, after carrying out an independent review, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
My role is to consider all the evidence presented by the parties and reach a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. We provide an informal complaints 
handling service and this is reflected in our approach. Ive expressed some of Mr Ps 
concerns in my own words and my focus is on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this and it simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. This means I wont necessarily mention everything that Mr P has 
brought to my attention, especially where I have nothing to add to what the investigator has 
said already. But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint.  
It might be helpful if I start by explaining that first direct is a trading name of HSBC UK and 
part of the HSBC UK Group (as is HSBC Repayment Services) and although Mr P seeks to 
draw a distinction between these entities, this makes no difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. I am looking overall at the service HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct 
provided to Mr P. I would also just mention here that I do not have the power to make rules 
for financial businesses or tell a business it must change the way it operates. Thats the role 
of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). For these reasons I wont be 
responding to Mr Ps concerns about the way HSBC operates or structures its business. 
The crux of the complaint seems to me to be whether HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first 
direct has acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P in connection with:
opening and operating his Sharedealing account and 
how it has handled the debit balance on his 1st Account.
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, including listening to call recordings 
provided, I find as follows:
opening and operating his Sharedealing account 
Mr P didnt go through a suitability assessment with anyone at the bank and he wasnt 
personally advised by anyone at the bank to sign up for this service. It was up to him to 
decide if the execution-only Sharedealing account was right for him. HSBC had a 
responsibility to ensure that it provided Mr P with sufficient information to be able to make an 
informed decision  and I find that it did. Ive been provided with a Key Features Document 
that applied in November 2021. I think its reasonable for me to assume the business terms 
that Mr P wouldve been able to see and that he wouldve signed up to in order to use his 
Sharedealing account would have been similar.
The Terms of the Sharedealing account state:
The shares service has a Settlement Account, which will be opened for you and is linked to 
your nominated first direct current AccountThe proceeds of your deals and dividends will 
be transferred each business weekday (in a single transaction) to your nominated first direct 
current Account. The money to pay for share purchases will be taken from your nominated 
first direct current Account each business weekday (in a single transaction).At the end of 
each business weekday, the balance in the settlement account will be nil.
UK equity trades settle two business days after the date of the trade In other words, the Sharedealing account offered a short term lending facility which allowed 
Mr P to trade up to his Sharedealing account limit, in the knowledge that funds would be 
debited from his 1st Account within two working days to balance the deficit on the trading 
limit. 
The terms and conditions put the onus on Mr P to ensure that he had the money available in 
his nominated account, his 1st Account, to settle account fees and trades arranged through 
his Sharedealing account: You also authorise us to debit and/or credit the necessary funds 
from/to your Qualifying first direct Account to ensure that the balance of your Settlement 
Account is returned to nil at the close of each Business Day.
The fact that the Sharedealing account did not have a share spend limit, only an overdraft 
limit that could be exceeded, is not a reason for me to uphold this complaint. I consider that 
Mr P had access to enough information to be able to see how the account worked and 
decide if this was going to meet his requirements.  
first direct has provided information showing that the terms and conditions Mr P agreed to 
explained that the 1st Account would be debited in order for the share purchase to be 
executed, even if this meant taking the 1st Account into an overdrawn position: If your 
Qualifying first direct Account is not in credit.we may still deduct any or all outstanding 
amounts from that account. In these circumstances, your Qualifying first direct Account may 
go into overdraft. It is your responsibility to meet any associated obligations (including any 
overdraft fees you may have under the terms and conditions applicable to your Qualifying 
first direct Account.
For these reasons, I dont find that HSBC mis-sold this Sharedealing account to Mr P.
Mr P accessed his Sharedealing account by logging on to his online banking, which showed 
his account balances onscreen when he logged on. And from there, he wouldve had to click 
on the link to access the Sharedealing platform. So Mr P was always able to see the balance 
on his 1st Account before being taken to his Sharedealing account. This means he wouldve 
known what his financial situation would be before committing to any trades - and that he 
had up to two days after placing a trade to ensure he had sufficient funds in his 1st Account 
available to be drawn upon to cover the trade(s). 
Mr P traded and operated the accounts for some time, mostly within the £500 limit on his 
1st Account. And when Mr P was aware, in September 2020, that he had mis-timed a couple 
of trades and this would take his 1st Account into an unarranged debit position, he contacted 
first direct and asked if this would be allowed overnight. So I think he understood how to 
operate his accounts successfully within limits and according to the terms and conditions 
that applied. On this occasion, first direct reminded him that the funds would automatically 
debit the following day, even if they werent available in his 1st Account as per the terms and 
conditions that applied. 
first direct declined Mr Ps request when he asked for a temporary extension (as had 
happened previously) to cover the situation. I think this was reasonable as first direct 
explained it had changed its policy and it no longer allowed this. first direct suggested the 
possibility of increasing the overdraft facility on Mr Ps 1st Account permanently as opposed 
to temporarily  or at least until Mr P phoned to reduce it again. But when Mr P didnt meet 
its criteria for increasing his account limit, first direct told him it was unable to agree an 
overdraft increase. 
All this means that I dont find that first direct did anything wrong when it took Mr Ps 
1st Account over its £500 overdraft limit in order to pay for his trades in the Sharedealing 
account as it was acting in line with terms and conditions he wouldve signed up to in order to carry out his trades. And I dont find that first direct acted in an unfair or unreasonable 
manner when Mr P got into financial difficulty on his 1st Account. first direct suggested and 
explored a possible option that might have helped Mr P, which was something Id reasonably 
expect it to do  but it wasnt open to first direct to authorise something that it no longer 
permitted, so its decision not to extend his overdraft to cover the debit balance on his 1st 
Account was reasonable in the circumstances. 
how first direct handled the debit balance on Mr Ps 1st Account
Once Mr Ps 1st Account had been over limit for more than 30 days, first direct passed his 
account to its Financial Support Team to engage with Mr P and, as far as I can see, it 
treated him fairly. Mr P was invited to make contact if he was having trouble managing his 
money so that options could be looked at  which wasnt unreasonable. On 28 July 2021, a 
restriction was put onto Mr Ps 1st Account so that all new lending requests would have to be 
manually assessed from that point on to confirm affordability. This was in Mr Ps best 
interests as it could help to limit his debt escalating and so I think it was reasonable for first 
direct to take this action, and it was entitled to do this. 
Mr P had hoped in September 2020 that hed shortly be able to put things right on his 
1st Account. When that didnt happen, the onus was on first direct to take reasonable steps to 
help limit the financial detriment to Mr P given the indications that he might be in financial 
difficulty. Freezing his account for 12 months in February 2021 to stop further charges and 
interest accruing was a fair thing to do in this situation.  
I cant fairly say that Mr Ps Sharedealing account should not have been de-linked from his 
1st account and his ability to trade blocked. By exceeding his agreed overdraft facility on his 
1st Account and having an uncorrected debit balance, Mr P was already in breach of the 
terms and conditions that applied and not in a position to fund his trades or mitigate his 
existing debt. first direct was entitled to take this action and I dont think it wouldve been fair 
or reasonable if first direct had allowed Mr P to continue to trade in these circumstances 
given the evident risk that this would likely compound his money problems.     
I dont consider that first direct has been unreasonable in requiring Mr P to engage in an 
income & expenditure assessment before it will agree a repayment plan. This is information 
first direct is entitled to require Mr P to provide as it cant reasonably agree payment terms 
without knowing Mr Ps overall financial situation. As far as I am aware, should he wish to do 
so, Mr P could make payments into his 1st Account in order to start reducing his debt without 
a formal repayment plan being set up, so first directs stance here doesnt cause any 
particular detriment to Mr P. 
I understand that Mr P disputes the amount HSBC is asking him to pay but the 1st Account 
statements show how this figure has been arrived at and it seems to me that the amount 
accurately reflects the withdrawals and charges on the account. 
HSBC Repayment Services handles debt collection on behalf of first direct. So I cant uphold 
Mr Ps complaint on the basis that the bank is acting unfairly or unreasonably by pursuing 
this debt in this way.
I can appreciate why Mr P would prefer not to receive phone calls about the money owing on 
his 1st Account. But a financial business is entitled to take steps to pursue debt owing to it. 
I havent been provided with evidence to show that HSBC is pursuing the debt unfairly or 
unreasonably. I've taken into account that Mr P has put forward his own settlement 
proposals, but he appears not to have engaged with or addressed HSBCs requirements, so 
I dont find its efforts to reach him by phone have been unreasonable.     In order to uphold Mr Ps complaint I would have to find that HSBC did something wrong or 
acted unfairly or unreasonably  and for all the reasons I have explained, I havent seen 
enough here to do so. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything Mr P has said, including his 
concern about first direct getting back in touch with him about this matter so soon after the 
investigator issued her view. Its important to understand that a financial business might 
sometimes put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to, 
we cant tell them to do that and HSBC is entitled to pursue a lawful debt in a fair and 
reasonable manner. So the fact that HSBC resumed its collection activity following the 
investigators view isnt a reason for me to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr P but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
Just in case its helpful to know, free debt management advice is available from agencies 
such as Citizens Advice or StepChange and there is more information about this on our 
website  or we can provide contact details over the phone if Mr P would like us to. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman