DRN-3746249
The complaint
Mr G has complained that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc delayed the transfer 
of defined benefits from his occupational pension scheme, which resulted in the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) being reduced.
What happened
The investigator who considered this complaint issued his assessment of it on 7 August 
2022, in which he set out the background, including a timeline, as to what had happened 
here. Im broadly setting out the same overview of events below, with some amendments for 
the purposes of this decision.
Mr G had deferred benefits in two occupational pension schemes, one with Bombardier 
Transportation UK (Bombardier) and with a further pension scheme, which Ill call Pension 
B. The benefits in the Bombardier scheme were accrued over around 17 years, and were 
larger than those accrued in Pension B, which had accrued over fewer years.
Mr G and his wife have been clients of SJP for a number of years. Their previous adviser 
(Adviser A) semi-retired in 2020 so they were transferred to a new adviser (Adviser B). Once 
Adviser B took over, discussions were held around the possibility of Mr G transferring his 
occupational pension scheme benefits to a personal pension.
Adviser B didnt have authorisation to advise on pension transfers, so they introduced Mr G 
to another adviser (Adviser C), who could advise on the transfers.
Adviser C provided abridged advice to continue to full advice on transferring both policies. 
CETVs were requested from both providers. The Bombardier scheme incorrectly had Mr G 
as a current member, so they werent able to send a CETV straightaway. They calculated a 
value of £308,075 on 31 March 2021 and it was guaranteed until 1 July 2021. Pension B had 
provided an indicative transfer value of around £30,000 but not a guaranteed value.
Adviser C sent Mr Gs case to SJPs Business Assurance team to review, then addressed 
their points. But the main issue was that Pension B hadnt provided a guaranteed value. 
Pension B didnt provide a guaranteed transfer value until 2 June 2021.
SJP was unable to complete the advice process and get the pensions transferred before the 
Bombardier CETV expired. While chasing an updated CETV from Bombardier, Pension Bs 
CETV also expired.
The new Bombardier CETV was around £12,000 lower than the first one. The new Pension 
B CETV was slightly higher than the first one.
Throughout this process, Mr and Mrs Gs relationship with Adviser B deteriorated. They felt 
there were unreasonable delays and that they were being asked to chase administrative 
issues which they felt SJP should be doing as part of its fee. Mrs G asked SJP to transfer 
them to a different SJP partner.
Mrs G complained on Mr Gs behalf about the administration and time taken to
transfer the pensions, noting the reduction in the Bombardier CETV. SJP said it hadnt done 
anything wrong in the pension transfer or in processing a withdrawal for Mr and Mrs G.
However, it accepted that it had provided its final response letter late, so paid £250 for that 
delay.
Mrs G was unhappy with the response, so an SJP appeals team reviewed the matter again. 
It again said that nothing had been done incorrectly with the transfers, but acknowledged the 
deterioration in the relationship with Adviser B and offered £750 for the trouble and upset 
this had caused.
Dissatisfied with the further response, Mrs G has brought the complaint to our service on 
behalf of Mr G to consider, as she doesnt feel SJPs offer is fair.
The investigator who assessed the complaint thought that the complaint should be upheld, 
saying the following in summary:
Although he couldnt comment on the £250 paid for the late final response letter, as 
complaint handling wasnt a regulated activity, hed considered whether the further 
offer of £750 was fair in the circumstances.
He thought that the initial time taken by SJP to obtain the Bombardier CETV was 
reasonable  the latter had recorded incorrect details about Mr G and this needed to 
be corrected before it could issue the CETV.
He also thought that the principle of trying to transfer the two sets of deferred benefits 
from the two schemes at the same time was reasonable. But he considered that the 
implementation of that strategy thereafter was flawed.
He noted SJPs timeline of what had happened as follows:
10/4/21 Guaranteed transfer value received from Bombardier
14/4/21 Updated letter of engagement signed showing both schemes and updated      
values
15/4/21 Case sent to Business Assurance for preliminary review
27/4/21 Feedback from Business Assurance (BA) to be addressed
28/4/21 Points addressed and sent back to BA but still no guaranteed transfer value 
from [Pension B]
4/5/21 Feedback from BA- main point, still missing guaranteed transfer value (TV) 
from [Pension B]
2/6/21 Guaranteed TV from [Pension B] eventually received
2/6/21 Sent [Pension B] TV to BA
The investigator inferred from this that, although there was a delay in receiving the 
Pension B CETV, the Bombardier pension benefits were ready to be moved to the 
full advice stage at an earlier stage.
He didnt think it was fair that SJP had waited until the Pension B CETV was received 
before moving forward with the Bombardier transfer. The Bombardier CETV 
represented over 90% of the overall scheme benefits which were to be transferred, 
and SJP was aware that the CETV could reduce if the deadline was missed.There was nothing preventing SJP from proceeding with the transfer of the 
Bombardier pension benefits separately from those from Pension B  and the advice 
fees would have been the same overall.
As such, SJP should have moved to the full advice stage soon after 4 May 2021, at 
which point the transfer work was largely complete.
Addressing the deterioration in the relationship between Adviser B and Mr and Mrs 
G, the investigator said that the options provided by SJP in terms of them working 
with a different adviser and having adviser charges switched off until this happened, 
along with the offer of £750, was fair in the circumstances.
To remedy the situation, the investigator said that SJP should calculate the difference 
between the transfer value paid from Bombardier and that which would have been received 
from the first CETV. Any loss should in the first instance be paid into Mr Gs plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to him with a notional basic rate deduction for 
income tax which Mr G would otherwise pay on his retirement benefits.
Mr and Mrs G accepted the investigators findings, but SJP made the following further points:
The transfer of the Bombardier benefits was initially considered in isolation, but Mr G 
brought into consideration the possibility of transferring the Pension B benefits as 
well, which was indicative of him wanting them to be transferred at the same time.
It provided Mr G with the brochure entitled Defined Benefit Pension Transfers  Your 
Comprehensive Guide, which highlighted the following:
It can take many months to obtain all of the necessary information from schemes, 
undertake calculations and verify recommendations for advice on transfers. In 
particular, the process can take longer than the period for which the original transfer 
quotes are valid. Where this is the case, new transfer quotes must be obtained, and 
the transfer value may be less than the original offer. This may change the advice 
and it will alter the benefit you receive if you transfer.
Adding Pension B to the equation was therefore going to impact on the timescales. It 
accepted that the Bombardier scheme represented 90% of the overall transfer 
amount, but its internal guidance stated that, where a client had multiple defined 
benefit schemes being considered for transfer, its partners should consider them 
together  from a holistic perspective at the abridged advice stage.
The CETV from Pension B wasnt received until 2 June 2021, at which point the 
whole transfer proposition could then be considered from that holistic perspective at 
the Abridged Advice stage.
But it had in any case considered the prospect of the higher Bombardier CETV being 
obtained if that transfer had been progressed in isolation, and it concluded that this 
wouldnt have been possible. It set out the following timeline of events:
o10/04/2021 - While conversations about transferring the Bombardier scheme 
began in February 2021, the client did not receive a CETV based on his correct 
circumstances (i.e. deferred member) until 10 April 2021.
o14/04/2021  client sends back signed updated letters of engagement reflecting 
the updated value of the Bombardier scheme (same as original timeline)o15/04/2021  Partner submits the case to Business Assurance department for a 
pre-lim assessment -Abridged Advice (same as original timeline)
o27/04/2021  Business Assurance complete an initial review but they query the 
pension income figures provided by Bombardier as they have not been revalued 
to NRA & SRA. (Same as original timeline)
o28/04/2021  We assume the Partner requests this additional information from 
Bombardier the next day
o30/04/2021  Bombardier reply to the request. (We know it took 2 working days 
for the Bombardier scheme to reply to this request for information from the 
original timeline / copy emails).
o30/04/2021  After having assessed this information, the Partner sends this 
information back to Business Assurance the same day (same as original timeline)
o06/05/2021  We know it took Business Assurance 3 working days to approve 
the pre-lim on the original timeline. The 30th is a Friday, and the 3rd May is a 
bank holiday, taking us to 6 May 2021
o07/05/2021  Abridged Advice letter signed the next day by the client (same as 
original timeline)
o07/05/2021  TVAS Report requested the same day (same as original timeline)
o12/05/2021  We know it took the TVAS team 3 working days to review the 
scheme information which was already held. They decided they needed further 
information from the scheme and ask the Partner to obtain this.
o12/05/2021  Partner should have emailed the scheme the same day and 
request the following information:
1. Please confirm that age 60 is the earliest age that this member can retire 
without any early retirement reduction on any of his benefits. If not, please 
advise.
2. Further to the above, please confirm that all tranches of benefit have NRA 60 
for this member i.e. no lower NRAs exist on any of his benefits due to 
previous equalisation/barber etc.
3. If late retirement at age 75 would be possible, please provide details of the 
current late retirement factors that would be applied to each tranche at that 
age. The table supplied only goes to 5 years late.
4. Please provide the current cash commutation factors for age 75 for this 
member.
5. Please advise which commutation factors apply for this member (Main Plan 
or 2003 Scheme).
6. In respect of current pensioners, please advise amounts and dates of any 
discretionary increases paid in the last five years.o26/05/2021  Scheme information received. We know from copy emails that it 
took the scheme 2 weeks to reply to the request for information above.
o26/05/2021  Partner sends this to the TVAS team the same day (same as 
original timeline)
o27/05/2021  TVAS confirm two points have still not been answered by the 
scheme (next working day  same as original timeline)
o27/05/2021  Partner requests outstanding information from the scheme the 
same day (same as original timeline):
1. If late retirement at age 75 would be possible, please provide details of the 
current late retirement factors that would be applied to each tranche at that 
age. The table supplied only goes to 5 years late.
2. Please provide the current cash commutation factors for age 75 for this 
member. The table supplied only goes to age 70.
o04/06/2021  We know it took 5 working days for the scheme to reply with the 
information from copy emails on file (noting that 31 May was a bank holiday)
o04/06/2021  Response sent back to TVAS the same day (same as original 
timeline)
o17/06/2021  TVAS Report produced and passed to Partner (Based on the 
original timeline, we know it took 9 working days for the TVAS team to produce 
the TVAS report following receipt of the scheme information above).
o17/06/2021  send TVAS report to the client the same day and answer his 
queries. Establish if he still wants to proceed based on the results.
At this point we have 10 working days left before the CETV expires. There is still a 
formal recommendation letter to prepare and other documentation to draw up to 
support the recommendation, a further assessment from Business Assurance to 
establish if they agree with the proposed Recommendation to transfer, then a client 
meeting to go through the final advice & sign relevant paperwork
o01/07/2021  Formal recommendation letter & point of sale documents drawn up 
and prepared for checking (We know from the original timeline that the 
paraplanner took 2 weeks to write up the formal recommendation letter & prepare 
point of sale documentation before submitting to our Business Assurance 
department for checking. Original timeline states that the [Pension B] TVAS 
Report produced 7/10 & we know the Partner submitted to Business Assurance
for checking on 21/10). I do not believe 2 weeks is unreasonable to produce the 
necessary documentation, considering the complexity of advice.
o01/07/2021  Submitted to Business Assurance for an assessment as to whether 
they believe the advice to transfer (full advice) is appropriate for the client.
o05/07/2021  Business Assurance took 2 days to assess the case. They raised a 
number of queries with the Partners office regarding the documentation with 
suggested amendments. Case could not be approved at this stage.o12/07/2021  Case approved by Business Assurance. (We know it took about 5 
working days for the paraplanner to update the documentation in line with 
Business Assurances comments, submit back to Business Assurance for 
checking and for Business Assurance to approve the transfer advice.)
SJP said that, by this point, the CETV would already have expired and a meeting 
would still have needed to be arranged with Mr G to go through the formal 
recommendation and complete the required paperwork  which would have further 
added to the overall timescale.
It wouldnt thereafter have been unreasonable to deal with the two transfers together 
 especially as its guidance recommended that they be considered holistically.
The investigator considered SJPs comments and its timeline, but said that the near month 
between the scheme providing the outstanding information and the formal recommendation 
being issued was longer than was reasonable, considering that the CETV deadline was 1 
July 2021.
Further, he said, SJP could have contacted the Bombardier trustees to request an extension 
of the CETV, especially as SJP had needed to wait around three weeks for them to provide 
the necessary information. 
In response, SJP said that it remained its position that the two transfers should have been 
considered together. This gave it a complete client picture and enabled it to provide the best 
advice on the true position in retirement. 
Further, it said, this was something which Mr G had himself wanted when he added Pension 
B to the equation.
It also maintained its position that the timeline it produced was indicative of there being no 
realistic prospect of the CETV deadline being met. There was also no evidence to suggest 
that the trustees would have been willing to extend the CETV deadline by three weeks. In its 
experience of dealing with defined benefit transfers, it rarely saw instances of schemes 
extending CETV deadlines.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
At my request, the investigator has enquired of the scheme administrator as to whether it 
was likely that an extension to the CETV deadline would have been granted if this had been 
requested.
In response, they have said that this would have needed to be submitted to the trustees, but 
that they considered it unlikely that they would have wanted to set a precedent for this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge what SJP has said about approaching the transfers of both sets of scheme 
benefits holistically and I agree that it would be expected that a recommendation would take 
into account all of Mr Gs relevant circumstances, which would include additional pension 
provision.
I think its less straightforward as to whether SJP needed the actual CETV for Pension B to take these benefits into account, when it would in any case have been aware of the likely 
pension benefits the scheme would provide to Mr G at retirement. The CETV would have 
been needed for the TVAS, but it would nevertheless have a good idea as to the guaranteed 
pension benefits Mr G would be relinquishing in both schemes.
But I dont think it was in any case inevitable that adding Pension B to the equation would 
impact timescales. The CETV for Pension B was received at the beginning of June 2021, 
which according to the above notional timeline set out by SJP would have coincided with the 
receipt of the necessary scheme information from the administrators of Bombardier.
I dont think the notional timeline set out by SJP is necessarily unreasonable. But I think it 
ought reasonably to have been possible, even on the basis of the holistic approach SJP 
recommended to its partners, for the suitability of the transfer of the Bombardier pension 
benefits to be assessed in the knowledge of the scheme benefits, and the CETV, which 
would be produced by Pension B.
That is to say that, by that point, the benefits to be provided by Pension B could have been 
factored into an individual recommendation for the Bombardier pension. And if the actual 
logistics of transferring the Pension B benefits needed additional time, then SJP would have 
had this by virtue of the later date of receipt of the Pension B CETV.
This then leaves the matter of whether there should have been sufficient time for SJP to 
prepare the recommendation report for Mr G and to complete the necessary paperwork for 
submission to the Bombardier administrators by 1 July 2021. 
The investigators position was that a month should have been enough time for this to 
happen, especially given that SJP was aware that the CETV deadline was 1 July 2021. And 
Im inclined to agree. I accept that it took time to gather information to enable it to make the 
recommendation, for which it couldnt reasonably be held responsible, but I think a period of 
four weeks from receiving the outstanding information from the scheme ought to have been 
enough time for the process to complete and for the transfer request to be submitted to the 
scheme administrator.
Putting things right
On the basis that Ive concluded that it ought to have been possible for the transfer request 
to be submitted by 1 July 2021, my view is aligned to the investigators in that St. James's 
Place Wealth Management Plc should compensate Mr G for the difference between the 
CETV that he received and that which he would have received, had the transfer request 
been submitted by the initial deadline. 
To determine any loss to Mr G, St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should obtain the 
notional value of Mr Gs recipient pension plan, as at the date of this decision, had the higher 
amount been paid to it, and at the earlier point (determined by using the actual time taken for 
the transfer payment and reinvestment to occur once the transfer request had been 
submitted). This should be compared to the actual current value of Mr Gs pension plan as at 
the date of this decision.
Any loss should in the first instance be paid to Mr Gs pension plan, taking account of any 
unused tax relief, charges and annual allowance issues. If this isnt possible, or has 
implications for annual allowances or protection put in place for the lifetime allowance, then 
the amount should be paid to Mr G, with a notional deduction for the amount of income tax 
he would have paid on 75% of the amount in retirement (assuming he would have taken tax 
free cash). The investigator said that Mr Gs tax rate should be assumed to be basic rate, 
and I note that neither party has taken issue with this, so a 15% notional deduction from the loss amount would adequately reflect this.
The loss amount should be paid within 28 days of St. James's Place Wealth Management 
Plc being notified of Mr Gs acceptance of this decision. If it isnt, interest at the rate of 8% pa 
simple should be applied to the loss amount from the date of this decision to the date of 
settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman