DRN-3052119
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC continued to record a default on her credit file 
after she had been declared bankrupt. 
What happened
Mrs F was made bankrupt in January 2019 and this was discharged in January 2020. She 
says her joint account with her ex-husband was her responsibility and thought the overdraft 
was included in her bankruptcy order. However, the default continued to be shown on her 
credit report. 
In its final response letters to Mrs F in August 2020 (2 August and 13 August), Barclays 
confirmed that the bankruptcy marker was removed from Mrs Fs profile in January 2020 and 
an amendment form sent to the credit reference agencies at that time. It said the default 
recorded on her credit file related to an account that had been opened in July 2007 and 
closed in December 2016 with an outstanding debit balance of over £1,200. 
Barclays explained that the defaulted account wasnt included in the information it received 
from the official receiver and wasnt included in the bankruptcy order and so the amount was 
still outstanding. It said the default was recorded accurately and would remain on her credit 
file for six years. 
Our investigator noted that the account Mrs F had said was recorded as in default on her 
credit file was a joint account that hadnt been included in her bankruptcy order. Therefore, 
he didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong by continuing to record the default. 
Mrs Fs complaint was closed but she then asked for it to be reopened after receiving a 
response from the insolvency service. The response said that Barclays was notified of her 
bankruptcy in January 2019. It said that in regard to any joint loans, if the other party wasnt 
bankrupt then they would be liable for the full loan. Mrs F was upset that Barclays hadnt 
provided her with clear information about the account not being included in her bankruptcy 
order sooner. 
As a resolution hasnt been agreed, this complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F was declared bankrupt in January 2019 and this was discharged in January 2020. 
Barclays has explained that when the bankruptcy paperwork was received Mrs F had two 
open accounts  a sole account with a small debit balance and a joint savings account with a 
small credit balance. The joint account funds were split between the parties and Mrs Fs 
share was set against her debit balance on her sole account. Both accounts were closed. 
The bankruptcy papers that Mrs F has provided show a Barclays account with an amount 
owing of £9. This ties in with the information provided by Barclays about the two accounts 
held at the time it received notification of Mrs Fs bankruptcy. Based on this I do not find that 
Barclays did anything wrong in its actions following notification of Mrs Fs bankruptcy.
Barclays has confirmed that Mrs Fs profile was updated when the bankruptcy was 
discharged, and this information was sent to the credit reference agencies.
The outstanding issue relates to an account which has remained on Mrs Fs credit file and is 
recorded as being in default. After an investigation into this account it was found the account 
was a joint account that had been defaulted and closed in December 2016. As a default will 
remain on a persons credit file for six years, this account was still showing on Mrs Fs credit 
report. Mrs F says the account should have been included in her bankruptcy order but based 
on the information I have seen this wasnt the case. Further information provided by the 
insolvency service states that a joint debt will not be included in a bankruptcy order if the 
other party is still solvent as the solvent party would remain liable for the debt. This could 
explain why this account wasnt included in Mrs Fs bankruptcy order.
I appreciate the comments Mrs F has made about the information she received, and I agree 
that Barclays could have provided information sooner to explain that the account she was 
querying wasnt included in the bankruptcy order and the reason. However, based on what I 
have seen, Barclays did take the required action in response to Mrs Fs bankruptcy order 
and subsequent discharge. As I do not find it has done anything wrong in regard to the 
recording of the default on the account closed in 2016, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman