DRN-3735898
The complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received from Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited trading as Argos Card Services when he wanted to buy an item from Argos.
What happened
Mr W called Argos Card Services to ask a question about the Argos monthly payment plan, 
as he was considering buying an item using that payment method. He was told hed need to 
talk to a different department but was put through to the wrong part of Argos. 
Argos Card Services accepted it had made a mistake and offered Mr W £50 compensation 
for this. Our investigator thought this was fair compensation in the circumstances of Mr Ws 
complaint. Mr W disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Argos Card Services transferred Mr W through to the wrong 
department when he first called to ask a question about the monthly payment plan. Im not 
able to consider what happened when Mr W was speaking to that other department, as that 
part of Argos isnt covered by the Financial Ombudsman, so I dont have the power to. But I 
have listened to the calls Mr W had with Argos Card Services.
Mr W doesnt think the £50 compensation Argos Card Services has offered is enough  he 
thinks it should pay him £700. But sometimes things do go wrong and dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations can be inconvenient at times. To award 
compensation, Id need to see that what Argos Card Services did caused more than just a 
minor inconvenience or upset. 
Aside from the first call, where all parties accept a mistake was made, in the subsequent 
calls the staff seem to do all they can to help Mr W with his queries. Mr W is clearly 
frustrated he isnt able to get all the answers he wants from the people he speaks to, but it is 
clear that information  about the order hes just placed for example  isnt available to them. 
They do try and find out answers for Mr W and where thats not possible, offer to put him 
through to the right place.
Im sure it will have been annoying for Mr W to waste time speaking to the wrong 
department, but the question he asked could have been answered if hed either tried calling 
again or looked on the Argos website. Mr W seems to have gone ahead and placed the 
order on a buy now pay later basis (rather than monthly payment plan) and then he 
cancelled it. But I dont think it would be fair to conclude that any inconvenience caused by 
that was because of Argo Card Services mistake. 
There isnt enough to conclude the mistake that was made had an impact on Mr W 
significant enough to make an award of more than the £50 thats already been offered. It 
follows that I think this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
 Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card Services has already 
made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
Services should pay £50 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman