DRN-3191328
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the way that Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with their home
insurance claim for water damage to their home.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr and Mrs K discovered that water was leaking onto the floor of their home.
This was traced to a faulty inlet valve on the toilet. A second leak was discovered in their
bathroom cupboard. Ageas accepted the claim and its loss adjusters appointed contractors
to carry out repairs, mainly to the ground floor bathroom. Drying out commenced in
November 2020. Alternative accommodation (AA) was arranged for Mr and Mrs K in 
January 2021. The costs for the work itself were not approved until March 2021. The AA was 
mainly in hotels and Mr and Mrs K found themselves having to move around a lot. They are 
elderly and both have significant health problems.
During the course of the work, Mr and Mrs K decided that they wanted the bath replaced
with a walk-in shower and the rest of the suite replaced. The contractors appointed a 
subcontractor to carry out this work privately, without reference to Ageas or the loss 
adjusters.
Mr and Mrs K paid cash payments for this. When the work was apparently completed in May
2021, Mr and Mrs K had a lot of issues with the standard of work. In particular their daughter
and son-in-law arranged for an electricians report which found the wiring for the shower to
be faulty. They also found their patio doors were damaged. The contractors denied any
responsibility for this. Mr and Mrs K arranged to have the doors replaced.
Ageas accepted that some of the issues related to the insured work but said that most
related to the private work, which it had no responsibility for. It also advised that it was only
the buildings insurer, the contents being insured by a different insurer. This meant that
issues they had over the delivery of a carpet were to be dealt with by that insurer. However it
agreed to extend the AA until September 2021, and would seek a contribution from the
contents insurer. Mr and Mrs K were reluctant to have the same contractors back to the
property. Ageas assessed the work it believed it was responsible for completing and offered
a cash payment to Mr and Mrs K calculated according to the amount it would have paid its
contractors to put things right. It also offered Mr and Mrs K a payment of £300
compensation.
On referral to this service our investigator proposed that, in light of Mr and Mrs Ks
vulnerabilities, Ageas should pay a further £900 compensation. He also said Ageas should
pay Mr and Mrs K a settlement for the insured work to be completed/remedied. This should
be the cost to Mr and Mrs K of having the work done. As they had to spend additional money
on food and travelling whilst in AA, Ageas should reimburse them for this.
Ageas thought the compensation proposed was extortionate given the circumstances. The
situation was complicated by the private works, although it accepts there are snagging
issues. As a gesture of goodwill it has continued to pay for AA, even though the policy limit
for this has been reached. It didnt think it reasonable to accept whatever quote
Mr and Mrs K provide  it cant write a blank cheque.
I issued a provisional decision, setting out how the matter should be resolved. I said Ageas 
should pay a total of £2,000 compensation including the £300 already offered.
In response Ageas agreed to do the following:
In respect of the bulleted work detailed in the section snagging issues/poor work; at 
Mr and Mrs Ks option, either appoint new contractors to carry out the remedial repairs or 
pay Mr and Mrs K a cash settlement to enable then to have the repairs carried out.
If Mr and Mrs K opt for a cash settlement they should obtain two quotes for the work, and 
it will pay a settlement of the lower of those quotes.
It wont deal with the work bulleted under private work.
Pay the cost of remedying the damp problem.
Pay Mr and Mrs Ks cost of replacing the patio doors and add simple interest* at 8% from 
the date they paid this cost until it reimburses them.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Ks cost of buying food whilst staying in hotels and their cost of 
travel to and from the property. 
Continue to pay for AA for Mr and Mrs K until the repairs are completed  it would pay for 
a reasonable timescale for the insured works only.
Pay £1,500 compensation as this, in its view, is a more reasonable figure.
Mr and Mrs K made the point that they didnt put any pressure on the sub-contractors to 
carry out any private work. And they are concerned that there are outstanding invoices for 
accommodation, as well as future accommodation to be agreed
They made a second complaint to Ageas about the furniture left by the removals company in 
full sun and that the garden became overgrown and unmanageable as they werent able to 
enter it during building works.
Theyve produced further medical evidence advising that it is in Mr Ks interest to be able to 
move back home as soon as possible.
 
What happened
I made the following provisional findings:
private work
As a lot of the delays in completing the work and the poor repairs have been blamed on the
private work, I have considered how the situation came about. It appears that Mr and Mrs K
wanted the bathroom suite to be replaced and a walk-in shower installed instead of a bath.
This work was done by the contractors bringing in a sub-contractor. Under the terms of their
appointment I understand that they were not to do private work outside the insured work, but
did so in this case under pressure from Mr and Mrs K. The work appears to have been paid
for on a cash basis.
Contractors employed by insurers dont usually carry out private work as well as insuredwork. If they do, then it should be made be clear to the customers that the insurer wont be
responsible for that work. This wasnt done in this case, and indeed the loss adjusters dont
appear to have been told this was happening, despite it being a large part of the job in the
bathroom.
So I can understand it if Mr and Mrs K thought that Ageas would be responsible for all the
work, as it was their contractors who brought in the sub-contractors. And Im inclined to say
that Ageas should be responsible for the private work being carried out badly. The loss
adjuster should have been up to date with what work was taking place, but made no attempt
to formalise the arrangement or to explain this to Mr and Mrs K. I note that the broker, who
was involved in liaising with Mr and Mrs K said: as an aside if the customer had trusted the
contractor to carry out additional work for them based on them being recommended by
Ageas and they carried out unsafe sub-standard work on the private elements of the
arrangements then this still reflects poorly on [the broker] and on Ageas.
The knock-on effect of this is that the loss adjusters spent some time trying to separate out
the responsibility for the private work as against the insured work. This has caused delays in
agreeing what needs to be done and left Mr and Mrs K with some poor work, including
electrics not fitted according to regulations, and having to sort this out themselves.
I believe it wasnt intended to replace the bathroom suite, so Mr and Mrs K have to bear the
cost of the actual shower, sink, unit and toilet. But Ageas should pay as part of its settlement
for the following work to be remedied where it is faulty:
Pipe work under the sinks.
The wiring in the bathroom.
Installation of shower, toilet, sink and unit.
Pipe work in airing cupboard.
snagging issues/poor work
Despite the bulk of the snagging issues being passed off as part of the private work, there
were still many outstanding works, despite the contractors saying it had all been signed off in
May 2021 (which turned out not to be true). At an inspection of the property in July 2021 the
following issues still remained:
The tiling in the bathroom had been completed to a poor standard. The tiling was uneven
and incorrectly sized allowing water to pool and run off.
Grouting finished up to the window was poor, unfinished and flaky.
The property was still damp, high moisture readings in areas such as hallway and
bedroom.
Watermarks remained on the walls.
There was discolouration on the screed floor.
Three doors are still swollen and wet from the escape of water.
Kitchen kickboard fitted poorly.
The following issues were mentioned to us by Mr and Mrs Ks daughter:
Wallpaper is peeling
A newly plastered wall has loose plaster.
The house was also left dirty and dusty when Mr and Mrs K were supposed to return.
Ageas has talked of an underlying damp issue. But I think this was for it to resolve before
carrying out works to the property which appears to continue to be affected by damp. Wesay that repairs have to be effective and lasting. If an underlying issue such as the
installation of a damp proof course has to be dealt with in order to carry out an effective and
lasting repair, then I would expect Ageas to deal with it rather than leave it to the consumers
to sort out. I will require that Ageas pay the cost of remedying the damp problem.
The result of all this is that Mr and Mrs K have not been able to return to their property
despite it being over 14 months since the claim. They dont understandably want the
contractors to return. If thats the case and they dont want Ageas to appoint alternative
contractors, then Ageas should pay a cash settlement on the basis of what it costs Mr and
Mrs K to carry out the remaining work. They should provide two quotes and Ageas is to pay
the lower quote. The work to be done is to include all the private and insured work listed in
the above bullet points, and the resolving of the damp problem.
AA
By all accounts this appears to have been arranged in a haphazard way. Mr and Mrs K talk
of having to move ten times in the course of the claim, staying in various hotels and B&Bs.
They have stayed in sheds in peoples gardens. Both have health conditions which require
medication to be stored in fridges which is difficult in hotels. It appears they were told several
times the house was habitable, when with its underlying dampness and their vulnerabilities
that was clearly inappropriate. I do note however that Ageas did agree to continue funding
AA, beyond the policy limit. There is cover under the contents policy for AA and Ageas will I
understand be seeking a contribution from the relevant insurer.
I think if there hadnt been the confusion over the private work and if the work hadnt been
carried out badly, there wouldnt have been so much trouble over AA. I cant see that a let
property was considered as an option.
Mr and Mrs K have spent money on food and travel. If they were in self-catering, Ageas isnt
liable for the food bought there. But for that spent when staying in hotels, and their travel
expenses, Ageas should reimburse them. My view is that in respect of food rather than
attempt to work out what they have spent and rather than Mr and Mrs K having to provide all
the receipts, it would be easier if Ageas were to pay them a disturbance allowance of £20
per day (£10 each) for the days they spent in hotels. This is from January 2021 when they
were first moved to AA. For the travel expenses Mr and Mrs K will need to provide evidence
of this and Ageas should reimburse them.
patio doors
Mr and Mrs K say their patio doors were damaged by the contractors and they had to pay to
have them replaced. Ageas has said it was an issue with the doors for which it wasnt
responsible. Alternatively, the contractors carrying out the private work damaged the doors.
However, Mr and Mrs K found they were unable to open the doors after the contractors had
carried out work. Im inclined to believe the contractors were responsible for this. In line with
what Ive said above it makes no difference if this was the contractors doing the private or
the insured work. Ageas should pay Mr and Mrs Ks cost for replacing the doors and add 8%
simple interest from the date they paid it until it reimburses them.
compensation
Ive considered this carefully. Taking into account Mr and Mrs Ks health issues, the delays
and problems caused over the private work, the issues over AA, and the substandard work,
I think an award of £2,000 is appropriate. We make this sort of award when there is
sustained distress, potentially affecting someones health, and severe disruption to daily
life typically lasting more than a year.I shall just address the issues where the parties arent in agreement.
private work
Ageas says it isnt responsible for the private work carried out. It says it is unreasonable 
to suggest that it or its adjuster could have managed the insureds expectations relating to 
who is responsible for the private works when it had no knowledge of their existence. The 
sub-contractors have no working relationship with Ageas and do not fall under its 
responsibility.
The sub-contractors were brought in by Ageas contractors when Mr and Mrs K wanted the 
extra work done to the bathroom. The evidence from the papers is that the contractors were 
aware they werent to take on private work. Mr and Mrs K say, which Ive no reason to 
disbelieve, that they discussed the private work with Ageas contractors who were happy to 
help them, which resulted in the involvement of the sub-contractors. If the sub-contractors 
have no relationship with Ageas, the contractors do and the private work was arranged by 
them. As Ive said above, this was major work, and I find it hard to believe that the loss 
adjusters werent aware of it. If they werent they certainly should have been.
So I remain persuaded by my provisional findings in respect of the private work  Ageas 
should carry out the remedial work in respect of the private work at the same time as the rest 
of the repairs. If this means Mr and Mrs K have to stay in AA for longer it will need to pay for 
this.
AA
In respect of the food and travel expenses, I did say in my provisional findings that rather 
than having to work out how much was spent on food, Ageas should pay a disturbance 
allowance (DA) for the days they spent in hotels. I didnt reflect that in my directions. 
However Ive now remedied this. For travel Ageas should reimburse their costs.
If Mr and Mrs K have outstanding invoices (for the hotel stays, not food or travel) they should 
present those to Ageas, as theyre payable now. For future AA, as the result of this decision 
is that Ageas should pay for them to stay elsewhere even for any period necessary to 
encompass the remedial repairs for the private works, I shall make a direction for the parties 
to agree this. But if theres any future dispute over this, Mr and Mrs K should be able to 
make a further complaint about it and if necessary revert to this service.
compensation
Ive considered Ageas and Mr and Mrs Ks points. Ive taken into account the further medical 
evidence from Mr and Mrs K. However overall I think Ive reached the right conclusion as to 
the amount of compensation payable. That is, £2,000 including the £300 already offered. I 
note the medical advice that Mr K be able to move back home as soon as possible. 
Hopefully, as Ageas has agreed to most of my directions, this matter will now move forward 
quickly.other points
Mr and Mrs K have advised that they made a complaint to Ageas about the furniture being 
left by the removers in full sun, which hasnt been answered. If they have evidence that this 
damaged the furniture they should present it to Ageas for it to consider. I wont make a 
direction about this as it hasnt been considered by Ageas as a complaint yet.
                                                                                                                                                                      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right 
I require Ageas to:
At Mr and Mrs Ks option, either appoint new contractors to carry out the remedial
repairs or pay Mr and Mrs K a cash settlement to enable then to have the repairs
carried out. The repairs are those listed in the bullet points above under both Private 
work and Snagging issues/poor work
If Mr and Mrs K opt for a cash settlement they should obtain two quotes for the work,
and pay a settlement of the lower of those quotes.
Pay the cost of remedying the damp problem.
Pay Mr and Mrs Ks cost of replacing the patio doors and add simple interest* at 8%
from the date they paid this cost until it reimburses them.
Pay DA of £20 per day for the days Mr and Mrs K spent in hotels and pay their cost
of travel to and from the property. 
Continue to pay for AA for Mr and Mrs K until the repairs (including those for the 
private work) are completed. The length of time to be paid for by Ageas is to be 
agreed between the parties. Provided that if agreement cant be reached on this 
point, Mr and Mrs K should be entitled to complain about this to Ageas and only if 
appropriate and the matter cant be resolved, to be able to refer any dispute about 
this to this service. 
Pay Mr and Mrs K £2,000 total compensation. This includes the £300 already 
offered.
*Ageas Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any
interest paid. Should Mr and Mrs K request it, it should provide them with a certificate
showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2022. Ray Lawley
Ombudsman