DRN-4366447
The complaint
Mr P complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) decision to cancel his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P has a telematics device installed in his car which monitors his speed. He says he 
received a letter from Aviva to say his policy would be cancelled as hed been driving above 
45mph in a 30mph zone. Mr P says he has never driven above 45mph in a 30mph zone. He 
says he has a mobile app which also tracks his speed, and this doesnt show him speeding 
on the day Aviva claim. Mr P says, because he was driving in the evening, during peak time, 
heavy traffic would mean he couldnt speed. Mr P also says the road he was travelling on 
has speed cameras so, had he been speeding, he wouldve received a speeding ticket. Mr P 
complained to Aviva about their decision to cancel his policy. 
Aviva responded and provided the date, time and location where the telematics data showed 
Mr P was speeding. Aviva explained the speed Mr P was travelling at was in breach of the 
policy terms and conditions so the decision to cancel his policy was correct.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P. She thought Aviva hadnt acted unfairly in 
cancelling Mr Ps policy. Mr P disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ps motor policy documents. The Schedule of Insurance shows Mr P 
took out a telematics comprehensive policy. The telematics insurance booklet sets out the 
terms and conditions and, under the heading Policy cancellation theres a sub-heading 
which says, Excessive speeding conditions. This section says Aviva will cancel a policy 
immediately if a car is being driven at speeds shown in a table. One of the conditions shown 
in the table says, Exceeding 45mph in a 30mph zone.   
Aviva have provided telematics data relating to the speeding incident. This shows Mr Ps car 
accelerating to speeds that would trigger the excessive speeding condition Ive referred to 
above, as well as the direction of travel, and the specific location. 
Along the stretch of road Mr Ps car was travelling on, the data shows specific locations 
along that road where his car was being driven at between 46mph and 50mph. Aviva have 
also provided a speed graph which shows Mr Ps car was driven at 49mph while travelling 
along the same stretch of road. 
I note Mr P challenges this data and says its not consistent with the information shown on 
his mobile app. The terms and conditions say, when using the app, a policyholder will be 
able to view their journeys made in their car and will receive a score between 0 and 100. The 
terms and conditions then go further to describe the action Aviva will take if a journey score 
is below 50  and how this could also lead to cancellation of the policy. Mr P has provided a 
screenshot of his mobile app linked to his telematics device which shows a score of 65 for 
the date of the speeding event  so I do understand why Mr P has questioned this. 
The terms and conditions say the speeding score is calculated using a number of factors, 
which are abrupt cornering, lateral movement, mileage, hard acceleration, hard braking, 
speeding, road type and trip time. So, its clear the speeding score takes into account a 
range of factors  and isnt based on the speed alone. In any event, I cant say the data 
provided by the telematics device isnt reliable. The information provided by Aviva shows the 
telematics device was working correctly and collecting data in the way its expected to, and 
theres no evidence of any faults being reported. So, in the circumstances of this case, Im 
persuaded by the telematics data. 
I can see Mr P also raises a query about being told he was driving at 68mph. Ive seen a 
copy of this conversation with an agent at Aviva and they do refer to the speed being 68mph, 
but at a later time than the speeding events Aviva have relied on in support of their decision 
to cancel the policy. I havent seen any evidence of Mr Ps car being driven at 68mph, and 
Aviva do appear to acknowledge their agent gave an incorrect speed when discussing the 
matter with Mr P. This doesnt however change my decision as this doesnt prove the 
telematics data showing Mr Ps car being driven at speeds between 46mph and 50mph is 
incorrect  and its this driving event that Aviva are relying on when cancelling the policy.       
Mr P has provided a video recording of him travelling along the same stretch of road where 
Aviva claim he was speeding. He explains, given the roundabouts, its not possible to reach 
the speed Aviva claim he was doing. Mr P has also provided an image of the stretch of road 
showing the distance is approximately 0.6 miles. Mr P says, given the time Aviva claim he 
was speeding was peak time for traffic, he wouldnt have been able to travel at the speeds 
recorded. I do acknowledge Mr Ps points, but Im not persuaded this information proves    
Mr P wasnt doing the speeds recorded by the telematics device. I say this because the 
video does appear to show the same route shown by the telematics data, but its not for the 
same day. I dont doubt Mr Ps testimony about there generally being a build-up of traffic 
along that route, but I cant say there was traffic on the particular day Aviva say Mr P was 
speeding  and that it was to such an extent that would make it unlikely to be able to travel 
at the speeds recorded by the telematics data. Ive also taken into account the image 
provided by Mr P. This shows the stretch of road being 0.6 miles, so I cant say the distance 
is such that its unlikely for a car to be able to travel at the speeds recorded by the telematics 
data. 
I can see Mr P has also provided photos showing slip roads leading onto the stretch of road 
he was driving on, which Mr P says would lead to a driver having to slow down. I do 
acknowledge Mr Ps points, and I dont dispute this is what his photos show. But I cant say 
this evidence is more persuasive than the evidence Ive seen which suggests Mr Ps car, for 
a short period of time, was being driven at speeds which breached the speeding conditions 
set out in the policy terms and conditions. I also dont find Mr Ps argument that he didnt 
receive a speeding ticket persuasive, as that would have been dependent on the police 
witnessing/recording the incident. 
In light of the above, and while Ive carefully considered all information provided by Mr P, for 
all the reasons Ive mentioned above, I find the telematics data most persuasive. This 
therefore means Aviva acted reasonably by cancelling Mr Ps policy, as the device recorded 
an excessive speeding incident, and the terms and conditions say this is what theyll do in 
such circumstances.I understand Mr P will be disappointed and I am sorry to read about the impact the 
cancellation had on Mr P. But I cant say Aviva have acted unfairly in cancelling the policy. I 
wish to reassure Mr P Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman