DRN-3302511
The complaint
The three Mr Ds and Mrs D say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002. It covered just one of the Mr Ds, 
whom I shall call Mr D1. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. This is because the policy says it will not pay out if 
your claim is due to unemployment after the end of a temporary contract. When the policy 
started, Mr D1 had a trainee position with a fixed term contract. At that stage there was a 
reasonable likelihood he would need to claim if his contract was not renewed  but he 
wouldnt have been covered.
Santander advised the Mr Ds and Mrs D to take the PPI, but I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation. It is likely Santander didnt draw their attention to this limitation in the 
policy, and I think it unlikely theyd have taken the PPI if theyd been properly advised.   I 
think theyve lost out as a result. 
Putting things right
Santander should put the three Mr Ds and Mrs D in the position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
Santander should:
Pay the three Mr Ds and Mrs D the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year..
If the three Mr Ds and Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, 
Santander can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give the three Mr Ds and Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I require Santander UK Plc to pay compensation in accordance with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, Mrs D, Mr D 
and Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman