DRN-2722866
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the end of contract damage charges applied by Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of his car.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr K was supplied with a new car through a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS. The agreement was for 36 months; with monthly rental payments of £378.
When the agreement came to an end in October 2020, Mr K arranged to return the car. 
MBFS initially inspected the car on 9 October 2020 at Mr Ks home, then the car was 
collected. A further inspection of the car then took place on 15 October 2020 at MBFSs 
Defleet Centre. This inspection identified damage to the boot lid, rear bumper, left hand front 
door pad, left hand front tyre, and windscreen. Because this damage fell outside of MBFSs 
fair wear and tear policy, Mr K was invoiced for the cost of repair.
Mr K accepted there was damage to the rear bumper and left hand front door pad. But he 
didnt accept the other damage. And he didnt think he should be liable for this because the 
damage wasnt identified and brought to his attention when the car was collected. He also 
wasnt happy that MBFS waited six days before assessing the damage to his car, and he 
thought this additional damage couldve taken place during that time.
Mr K complained to MBFS. They reviewed the damage and accepted that the damage to the 
windscreen shouldnt have been charged for. But they held Mr K liable for the remaining 
damage. Mr K was unhappy with MBFSs response, and he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that MBFSs Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) say what is acceptable 
damage under fair wear and tear. And the damage to Mr Ks car fell outside of these 
guidelines. He also said that the terms of Mr Ks agreement said that the car would be 
inspected for damage at MBFSs Defleet Centre after collection. And that there was no 
evidence to show the car had been damaged between 9 and 15 October 2020.
The investigator said that the inspector wasnt able to assess the car on 9 October 2020, 
because of poor light conditions, and Mr K was advised by email the same day that a further 
inspection would be needed. He also referred to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) guidelines. He said that, while MBFS are no longer a member of the 
BVLRA, they are industry standard guidelines. And they say that the inspection and invoicing 
should be completed within four weeks of the collection of the car. So, because the VRS 
dont mention any timescales, he said that six days was within an industry standard 
timescale. So he didnt think MBFS had done anything wrong.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators view. He said that it wasnt reasonable to rely on the 
BVLRA guidelines if MBFS are no longer a member  this should be assessed based on the 
contract alone which made no reference whatsoever to allowing a prolonged delay. And he 
also said that he didnt receive any notification on 9 October 2020 that another inspection 
would need to take place. 
So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr K was supplied with a car under a contract hire agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the contract hire agreement, which Mr K signed on 27 September 2017. 
Under the heading Vehicle Return Standards, the agreement confirmed when the vehicle is 
returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried out by trained 
technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre. The contract goes on to explain what is, and 
isnt, considered acceptable damage under the VRS.
MBFS have said that the inspector who initially examined that car wouldve emailed Mr K to 
tell him that a further inspection would take place at the Defleet Centre. But they cant 
provide a copy of this email to show that it was definitely sent to Mr K. While telling Mr K at 
the time that an inspection would take place at the Defleet Centre wouldve been preferable, 
if this wasnt done, it doesnt alter the facts - the contract is clear that the car would be 
inspected for damage at the Defleet Centre, and Mr K was made aware of this at the outset 
of the agreement. 
But the agreement doesnt say how long MBFS have to undertake the inspection after the 
car has been collected  essentially, its open ended. I dont think its fair that MBFS have an 
unlimited period of time in which to inspect the car  Mr K would expect to know if there was 
any damage he may have to pay for within a reasonable amount of time. And a reasonable 
amount of time, under the industry standard BVLRA guidelines is four weeks. So, in the 
absence of another specified timescale, Id expect MBFS to have the car inspected within 
four weeks of collection.
Its not disputed that the car was collected late on 9 October 2020, which was a Friday. And 
the inspection took place on 15 October  four working days after collection. I dont agree 
with Mr K that four working days constitutes a prolonged delay and its well within the 
timescale Id consider reasonable, as explained above.
So I dont think that MBFS did anything wrong by inspecting the car at their Defleet Centre, 
or within the time frame in which this inspection took place.
After reviewing MBFSs VRS guidelines, and the photographs of the damage to the car; Im 
satisfied the damage MBFS are charging Mr K for falls outside of the VRS fair wear and tear 
guidelines. So I dont think MBFS have done anything wrong by charging for the damage.While Mr K accepts some of the damage, he doesnt accept all of it. And he thinks it couldve 
taken place at the Defleet Centre, at some point between the car arriving there and being 
inspected. Mr K had the car for three years and travelled almost 13,000 miles. And its not 
disputed that, during this time period, the car suffered some damage. The car was collected 
on 9 October 2020, and inspected on 15 October 2020, during which it travelled around 50 
miles and was kept in a secure storage facility.
Given this, and without any evidence to the contrary, I think its more likely than not that the 
additional damage to the car had occurred during the 3 years/13,000 miles period, and that 
this damage wasnt identified by the initial inspector due to the poor light conditions at the 
time of the 9 October 2020 inspection. So Im satisfied that MBFS have acted reasonably by 
charging Mr K for all of the damage that falls outside of the VRS guidelines.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman