DRN-1318945
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that a large payment made by Mr J from his account with Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to Miss D wasnt received in her account, also held with Barclays.
What happened
Miss D complains that she never got the money from a cheque that Mr J paid into her 
account in 2004. Shes only recently found out about this cheque. She wants to know why 
the money wasnt paid into her account, and where that money went. 
Mr J represents Miss D in this case, and they have both offered evidence about the payment 
that was made.
Barclays says that the money left Mr Js account, and it was paid in the form of a cheque. 
But it didnt go into Miss Ds account. Barclays says it doesnt know where the money went, 
and because of the length of time that has now passed, it cant find out. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that there wasnt any 
more Barclays could do now to look into this. He didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to say it had no evidence now of what had happened. And he couldnt ask Barclays 
to pay the money back without evidence it had done something wrong.  
Miss D and Mr J wanted to offer more evidence, and to ask specific questions about the 
checks the bank had done. Our investigator looked into this, but didnt change his mind. Both 
Miss D and Mr J wanted this case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. 
The payment in this case was made by cheque. Mr J has the cheque stub, and theres 
evidence that the money left his account. But that alone wont tell us for sure where it went. 
Barclays says it just cant trace the money, after this length of time. It can see that it wasnt 
paid to Miss D. But it cant tell us where the money went. 
I dont think thats an unreasonable, or surprising, response from Barclays. I wouldnt expect 
Barclays to still have enough information to be able to show exactly where this money went, 
after such a long time. Banks arent supposed to keep hold of personal information forever. 
They dont usually keep information for more than a few years, and they arent supposed to 
just hang on to information in case it might be helpful in future. They arent supposed to keep 
information if they dont have a business need for it. 
This payment was made around sixteen years ago. So I dont think its surprising that 
Barclays cant trace this cheque now. 
I agree with our investigator, that it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Barclays to pay this money 
back, without being able to say that its most likely that Barclays made a mistake. And Im 
not able to do that, on the evidence thats available to me now. So, although I know Miss D 
and Mr J will be disappointed, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman