DRN-2564334
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society wont delete data it holds about his closed 
accounts.
What happened
Mr C used to hold a number of accounts with Nationwide. Some of them had been opened 
with other building societies before Nationwide acquired them. In 2020 he left Nationwide, 
and he complained about a number of issues. However I will not describe them all here, 
since he has asked that I only consider one outstanding issue, which is Nationwides refusal 
to delete the data it still holds about his closed accounts. Some accounts were opened many 
years ago.
When Mr C brought this complaint to our Service, one of our investigators did not uphold it. 
She pointed out that Nationwides privacy notice says that it may keep information about a 
closed account for up to 12 years after it is closed.
Mr C did not accept that opinion. He said his accounts must have had different terms and 
conditions when they were opened, and he hadnt agreed to the terms quoted by the 
investigator. He said there was nothing to stop Nationwide from changing the terms so that 
they could potentially hold on to his data for decades. He said it was contrary to regulations 
to retain his data for longer than six years. He asked for an ombudsman to review this part of 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Paragraphs 63 to 73 of the current version of Nationwides terms and conditions deal with 
Nationwides right to change the terms and conditions from time to time. Paragraph 71 says: 
If we do not hear from you within 2 months of us telling you about the change, well take that 
to mean youve accepted the change on the date it came into effect.
It is very likely that the previous versions of the terms and conditions which applied to Mr Cs 
accounts over the years  whether at Nationwide or its predecessors  said the same thing, 
or something similar. That is standard practice in the industry. So whatever terms about 
privacy and data retention may have applied when the accounts were first opened, they 
have since been superseded by Nationwides current terms, which Mr C tacitly agreed to by 
not objecting to them when they were introduced. So I do not need to look at the old terms.
Nationwides privacy notice (which is referred to in the terms and conditions) says that it may 
hold an ex-customers data for up to 12 years after your account, product or service has 
closed or ceased. It goes on to say: We may keep your information for longer than 
indicated if we cannot delete it for legal, regulatory, or technical reasons. 1
There is no set maximum period that personal data can be stored for. Six years is often a 
minimum recommended term (being the limitation period for actions for breach of contract). 
But data may be retained for as long as there is a proper reason to retain it. I note that 
Nationwides policy says up to 12 years, not that it will always hold data for 12 years in 
every instance.
My remit is not to consider whether Nationwides policy is lawful  that is a matter for the 
Financial Conduct Authority, or the Information Commissioners Office. I am only concerned 
with how Nationwide has dealt with (or proposes to deal with) Mr C individually. Nationwide 
says it has retained Mr Cs data in accordance with its policy, and I have no reason to doubt 
that. (Nationwide has however confirmed that it has deleted his security information which it 
used to safeguard his accounts.) I accept that the privacy notice, and the terms and 
conditions which refer to it, apply to Mr Cs accounts.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 https://www.nationwide.co.uk/about/corporate-information/cookies-and-privacy/how-we-use-your-
information#xtab:how-long-keep-info 