DRN-3699677
The complaint
Ms M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) failed to inform her 
about a missing payment when they agreed a payment deferral.
What happened
In November 2019 Ms M entered a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a new car. 
The terms of this agreement required Ms M to pay £11,000 in advance, 47 monthly 
repayments of £763.51, with an optional final balloon payment of £32,705.52 if she chose to 
keep the car.
In April 2020 Ms M requested a payment deferral because her income had been impacted 
by the COVID19 pandemic. BMWFS granted a three-month deferral, which was later 
extended. In September 2020 Ms M paid £3,817.55 to clear the five payments shed missed 
(May to September 2020). So, BMWFS reversed the agreed payment deferrals. 
Unfortunately, Ms M was still facing financial difficulties. She was unable to make her 
October 2020 payment, and requested another payment deferral. BMWFS granted a three-
month deferral, covering payments due between November 2020 and January 2021, and her 
agreement was extended by three months. But this left the October 2020 payment 
outstanding.
Ms M says BMWFS didnt tell her that the October 2020 instalment hadnt been included in 
the payment deferral and remained outstanding. They made no reference to this when Ms M 
contacted them in February 2021 to resume her payments. But soon after this, she was 
shocked to receive a notice of arrears for the missing payment.
Ms M complained to BMWFS. They sent their final response letter on 23 February 2021. 
They agreed Ms M had contacted them in October 2020 to say she couldnt afford to make 
the payment that was due to be taken. And they accepted Ms M hadnt been advised that 
this instalment was outstanding when she contacted them in February 2021.
 BMWFS offered Ms M £50 compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused. They also 
offered either to include the October 2020 instalment into a repayment plan, or add it to the 
payment deferral and extend her agreement by four months.
Ms M didnt think BMWFS offer went far enough, so she brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator thought the information BMWFS had given Ms M wasnt clear  and that this had 
resulted in confusion about the payment deferrals applied to the account. She recommended 
BMWFS pay Ms M £150 compensation to reflect the stress caused, remove any adverse 
information recorded about the missing instalment, and add the October 2020 missed 
payment to the payment deferral.
BMWFS said they could add the missing October 2020 payment to the deferral and extend 
Ms Ms agreement by a total of four months. But in addition to charging deferral interest on 
top of her monthly instalments, they also apply a monthly depreciation adjustment charge on 
all deferrals exceeding three months, to cover the anticipated depreciation in the value of the 
car. BMWFS confirmed Ms M would need to pay £15.79 deferral interest and £17.10 
depreciation a month on top of her monthly instalments if they allocated the extra month to 
her agreement.
Ms M remained dissatisfied. She said BMWFS had previously agreed to waive deferral 
interest, so she didnt think it was fair it was now asking her to pay it. Her complaint was 
passed to an ombudsman for consideration.
Our ombudsmans provisional decision
Our ombudsman issued a provisional decision saying she was minded to uphold Ms Ms 
complaint. The ombudsman said that, unless she received more comments and evidence 
which changed her mind, her final decision was likely to be along the following lines:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance, that came into effect on 
27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties as a result of 
Covid-19. This guidance says a firm providing motor finance agreements should grant a 
payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is 
obviously not in the customers interest to do so. And, in July 2020, the FCA allowed a 
further 3-months payment deferral for customers who still faced payment difficulties.
A payment deferral is not a waiver of the payments that are due under the agreement. These 
payments still need to be paid, either by spreading them over the remaining term of the 
agreement; or, as in this case, by extending the term of the agreement.
The basic facts of this complaint arent in dispute. Ms M requested a payment deferral in 
April 2020, which BMWFS granted and then extended to cover payments due from May to 
September 2020. Ms M paid £3,817.55 to clear the five missed payments and BMWFS 
reversed the deferral. Ms M missed her October 2020 payment and requested another 
payment deferral in November 2020 as her income was still impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. BMWFS assessed the request and granted a new payment deferral to cover 
payments due from November 2020 to January 2021. Ms M didnt realise the October 2020 
was still outstanding and BMWFS failed to advise her of this when she spoke to them in 
November 2020 and February 2021 when she called it to resume her payments.
Ms M says if she had been made aware the October 2020 payment was missing, she would 
have requested it was included in the deferral granted in November 2020. BMWFS initially 
told our investigator it couldnt add the missing payment to the deferral as Ms M had already 
had a maximum of 6 months payment deferral. Our investigator clarified BMWFS had 
reversed the previous five months payment deferral, when Ms M made a lump sum 
payment. BMWFS then agreed to add the October 2020 payment to the deferral and extend 
Ms Ms agreement. It says Ms M will need to pay the deferral interest and the depreciation 
adjustment on top of her monthly payments.
I can see from the contact notes BMWFS did agree on 8 February 2021 to waive all future 
deferral interest. Ms M tells us this was agreed because she let the advisor know she was still in financial difficulties. In the circumstances I think BMWFS should honour its agreement 
to waive the deferral interest from 8 February 2021. BMWFS charges a depreciation fee on 
all deferrals exceeding three months, Ive not seen anything to indicate BMWFS agreed to 
waive the depreciation charge, so Ms M will need to pay this if she wants the October 2020 
added to the deferral and the agreement to be extended by four months.
Ms M says BMWFS is insisting she pays an extra £48 a month on top of her monthly 
instalments to clear the October 2020 arrears, and said it would refund this if her complaint 
is upheld. Ms M says BMWFS treated her unfairly as she explained she was struggling to 
make this payment on top of her monthly payments, because the car was in the garage and 
she is also having to cover the cost of car hire.
It is not clear from the records whether BMWFS is currently charging Ms M deferral interest, 
depreciation or whether she is on a payment plan for the October 2020 arrears. We have 
asked BMWFS to clarify this, but it has yet to respond.
Putting things right
I think BMWFS made a mistake when it didnt make Ms M aware the October 2020 payment 
was outstanding, when she got in touch with it in November 2020 and February 2021. I can 
see Ms M let BMWFS know in September 2020 she could not afford the October 2020 
instalment. So, I think it is more likely than not that if she had been made aware of the 
missing payment in November 2020, she would have requested for it be added to her 
payment deferral and for her agreement to be extended accordingly.
Ms M has told us about how stressful it was trying to resolve this, during a very difficult and 
uncertain time. She has also told us how this has impacted her health. In the circumstances I 
think BMWFS should increase its offer of compensation to £250 to reflect this.
I think BMWFS should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in 
relation to the missed October 2020 payment. In addition, it should ensure it removes any 
missed, late payment or arrears information registered between May 2020 to January 2021.
As Ms Ms agreement extension will exceed three months if the October 2020 is added, I 
think BMWFS should provide Ms M with the total depreciation figure for the four-month 
extension and let her know how much she will now need to pay each month on top of her 
monthly instalments over the remainder of the agreement.
The ombudsman said she was minded to direct BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited to:
pay Ms M £250 compensation to reflect the stress caused,
ensure it removes any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in respect of 
the October 2020 missed payment and remove any missed, late payment or arrears 
information registered between the payment deferral periods between May 2020 to 
January 2021,
provide Ms M with the total depreciation adjustment figure for her agreement to be 
extended by four months and let her know the monthly depreciation charge she would 
need to pay on top of her monthly instalments. And give Ms M the option to either:
1. have the October 2020 payment added to the payment deferral and extend the 
agreement by four months. If Ms M has made any payments to clear the October 
2020 arrears, this should be refunded to her, adding 8% simple yearly interest, 
from the date of the payments to the date of the refund*. It should also refund Ms 
M any deferral interest she has paid from 8 February 2021 (after deducting any 
deferral interest that would have accrued for the October 2020 payment up to 8 February 2021), adding 8% simple yearly interest from the date of the payments to 
the date of the refund*, or
2. agree an affordable repayment plan to repay the October 2020 instalment over the 
remaining term of the agreement. Reducing the arrears balance by any payments 
made to clear the October 2020 arrears, by any deferral interest paid or 
depreciation payments made.
Responses to the ombudsmans provisional decision
BMWFS said they felt it was unfair that they should have to pay Ms M £250 due to her health 
problems at the time, because they hadnt been made aware of this. They said members of 
their collections team are trained to assist with sensitive cases, to enable them to provide 
customers with the best options based on their current circumstances. 
BMWFS said Ms M had agreed to a payment plan for the arrears on her account. They 
provided copies of letters theyd sent her, referring to a payment arrangement set up in 
November 2021. BMWFS felt theyd treated Ms M fairly and with forbearance. They said Ms 
M was currently paying £763.51 for her monthly rentals and £42.36 for arrears, which shed 
agreed to. 
Ms M said BMWFS had given her no option but to start making payments towards the 
missed instalment along with her usual monthly repayments, which shed found extremely 
stressful and difficult. Ms M said shed now prefer the option of having the missed instalment 
deferred, with a refund of the payments shed already made towards this. 
Ms M said BMWFS had assured her that making payments towards the missed instalment 
would prevent any impact on her credit file. But she said applications shed made for a 
mortgage and interest-free credit card had been declined, due to a default BMWFS recorded 
in September 2021. Ms M said shed lost her house sale and £425 in interest fees on her 
credit card as a result. 
Ms M told us that shes unable to provide further information about her credit file and the 
declined applications because shes currently unwell. She provided supporting evidence 
from her doctor.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties for taking the time to respond to my colleagues provisional 
decision. I want to reassure both parties that Ive thoroughly reviewed all the information and 
comments theyve provided about Ms Ms complaint. Having done so, I agree with my fellow 
ombudsmans provisional findings, so I adopt that reasoning here. 
I appreciate BMWFS feel its unfair that they should have to pay a higher level of 
compensation to Ms M due to personal circumstances they hadnt been made aware of. But 
when considering what level of award is appropriate for distress and inconvenience caused, 
our service recognises that the impact of a businesss mistake will depend on the customers 
circumstances at the time. 
Ive seen copies of BMWFS records showing Ms M made them aware in April 2020 that 
shed had a very significant drop in salary due to COVID19, and that this had put her into financial difficulty. Ive seen that she contacted BMWFS several times in the months that 
followed to discuss payment deferrals - and that she expressed concerns about the 
additional charges shed have to pay as a result. 
I think those circumstances would have been very stressful for Ms M. So, I think it was 
foreseeable that shed be distressed to receive a formal notification in February 2021 saying 
her account was in arrears. And I think this would have had a greater impact because shed 
recently discovered she was expecting a baby and was feeling very unwell. So, I consider 
£250 compensation to be fair and reasonable.
I can only consider a complaint when BMWFS have sent Ms M their final letter of response, 
or theyve had eight weeks in which to do so. Ms M contacted us in February 2021 because 
she was dissatisfied with BMWFS response to her complaint about the missed payment 
shed just been made aware of. So, thats the complaint Ive addressed in this decision. 
Its clear that other issues have arisen since Ms M contacted us in February 2021. In 
particular, I can see shes unhappy about a default recorded on her credit file in September 
2021, which she feels caused her to lose out on a home mortgage and interest-free credit 
card. 
Ms M has told us that shes complained about these later issues to BMWFS. Unfortunately, 
she currently isnt well enough to provide us with the information wed need to see in order to 
properly consider her concerns. So, if Ms M wishes to complain about events that have 
happened since February 2021, Id invite her to raise this as a new complaint as soon as 
shes well enough to do so.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
pay Ms M £250 compensation to reflect the distress shes been caused,
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file in respect of the October 
2020 missed payment and remove any information relating to missed, late payment or 
arrears during the payment deferral periods between May 2020 to January 2021,
provide Ms M with the total depreciation adjustment figure for her agreement to be 
extended by four months, and let her know the monthly depreciation charge she would 
need to pay on top of her monthly instalments,
Give Ms M the option to either:
1. have the October 2020 payment added to the payment deferral and extend the 
agreement by four months. If Ms M has made any payments to clear the October 
2020 arrears, this should be refunded to her, adding 8% simple yearly interest, from 
the date of the payments to the date of the refund*. BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited should also refund Ms M any deferral interest she has paid from 8 February 
2021 (after deducting any deferral interest that would have accrued for the October 
2020 payment up to 8 February 2021), adding 8% simple yearly interest from the 
date of the payments to the date of the refund*, or
2. agree an affordable repayment plan to repay the October 2020 instalment over the 
remaining term of the agreement. Reducing the arrears balance by any payments 
made to clear the October 2020 arrears, any deferral interest paid, or depreciation 
payments made.
 
*If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited believes tax should be deducted from the interest 
element of the award, they should give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
taken off, if she asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman