DRN-2311045
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined a claim for subsidence, and that having now accepted there is a valid claim, its now 
delaying matters unnecessarily.
Any reference to Lloyds includes its appointed agents.  
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S made a claim for subsidence after noticing damage to their property. 
Lloyds arranged for an inspection to take place, after which it declined the claim on the 
grounds that its engineer said there was no evidence of recent or progressive subsidence 
damage to the property.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with Lloyds and commissioned their own expert reports, which 
confirmed that subsidence had occurred at the property. Lloyds didnt agree, but said it 
would monitor the soil to make sure it had declined the claim fairly. After a period of 
monitoring, Lloyds said thered been less than 1mm of movement over the monitoring 
period. And that this supported its declinature of the claim on the basis that there was no 
subsidence.
Mr and Mrs S made a complaint to Lloyds. Lloyds considered the complaint and the expert 
reports provided by Mr and Mrs S. It passed the reports on to one of its own experts for 
comment. That expert said while he didnt agree with the contents of one of the reports Mr 
and Mrs S had provided, he didnt have any concerns with the other report and agreed that 
further investigation was required. 
Lloyds said it would arrange further visits to the property to discuss the contents of the 
second report. Following various site visits and investigations, and following our 
investigators assessment of the complaint recommending Lloyds accept the claim and 
undertake the necessary remedial work, Lloyds changed its position  accepting that a valid 
subsidence claim had arisen.
It has now been one year since our investigator gave his recommendation that Lloyds accept 
the claim. Things have now moved on somewhat, although Mr and Mrs S are disappointed 
with the lack of progress during that time. 
Lloyds has said that the implicated vegetation will be removed in accordance with the 
arborists report. However, there is still uncertainty in relation to what other work may be 
required to fix the ongoing issues and Lloyds has not yet provided Mr and Mrs S with a 
scope of remedial works in this regard. Mr and Mrs S have also said they wish to check in 
with their own experts once theyve received confirmation of a scope of works, and that they 
dont accept Lloyds appointing its authorised contractors to carry out the work. 
Understandably, this is due to the loss of trust in Lloyds due to the problems Mr and Mrs S 
have experienced in trying to progress this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the recommendations made by our investigator and for the 
same reasons. Both parties are aware of the extensive background to this complaint and 
have had sight of our investigators assessment. So I wont repeat our investigators reasons 
for relying on the two expert reports provided by Mr and Mrs S, save to say that I agree with 
our investigators comments in relation to why hes found those reports persuasive.
In any event, as both parties now agree that the cause of the damage is subsidence, Ill 
focus my decision on what I consider should happen going forward. It goes without saying 
that I agree with our investigators conclusion that Lloyds should accept the claim and 
undertake the necessary remedial work required to repair the damage. It should also ensure 
a lasting and effective repair is carried out in relation to the cause of the subsidence, in order 
to try to minimise the risk of subsidence recurring in future. And it should do so in a timely 
manner.
I accept that subsidence claims can take some time to progress, particularly where a dispute 
like this arises and where further monitoring is required. But I consider Lloyds to now be 
unnecessarily delaying progress and so Im going to require Lloyds to deal with the claim 
within a reasonable timeframe going forward and to ensure there arent any unavoidable 
delays. This includes making sure it provides Mr and Mrs S with the reports theyve asked 
for, reimbursement of the costs theyve incurred so far, and a fair scope of remedial works 
which includes the cost of that work. It should also give Mr and Mrs S a choice between 
using its approved contractors (which I understand Mr and Mrs S are likely to decline) and 
cash settling to allow Mr and Mrs S to have the work carried out by contractors of their own 
choosing. I should point out to Mr and Mrs S that the amount of any cash settlement will be 
no more than it wouldve cost Lloyds to appoint its own contractors to do the work. 
Lloyds must also be aware that if the above is not actioned within a reasonable timeframe, 
Mr and Mrs S may raise a further complaint with Lloyds (and may ultimately bring a further 
complaint to this service) about any events not dealt with under this decision  that is, Mr 
and Mrs S can complain if theyre unhappy about the time it takes Lloyds to move things 
forward from the date of this decision onwards, or about any of Lloyds other actions in this 
claim going forward.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs S, Lloyds must now:
Deal with Mr and Mrs Ss subsidence claim in a timely manner.
Provide Mr and Mrs S with the drainage report and the results of the soil excavation 
work.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Ss costs to date (limited to how much it wouldve cost Lloyds 
to carry out the same work) and reimburse Mr and Mrs Ss costs for commissioning 
their own experts. In doing so, Lloyds must add 8% simple interest per annum to 
each payment from the date Mr and Mrs S incurred the cost until the date they 
receive reimbursement.
Provide Mr and Mrs S with a full scope of remedial work which includes the cost of all 
necessary works.
Give Mr and Mrs S a choice between using its approved contractors to carry out the remedial work or accepting a cash settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman