DRN-3119909
The complaint
Mr and Miss G complain that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited hasnt 
paid them the maturity value of an endowment policy.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go over them in great 
detail but the key facts are as follows:
Mr G took out the endowment in 1993 with Miss G as the beneficiary
Miss G became the owner of the policy when she turned 16 in 2002
The policy matured in 2003 and Royal London say a cheque was sent to Miss G
Mr and Miss G complained to Royal London in 2021 - they said they hadnt received 
the maturity proceeds
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint  they said their records showed the 
cheque had been sent to the address they had on file for Miss G but due to the 
passage of time they had no way of checking if the cheque was cashed or returned 
to them
Mr and Miss G then brought the complaint to this service where it was considered by 
one of our investigators
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint  she acknowledged that the lack of 
records was frustrating but didnt think that Royal London had done anything wrong
Mr and Miss G didnt agree with her opinion. As theres been no agreement the case has 
been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why. 
In order to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied that the available evidence doesnt 
support the position that the proceeds were in fact paid, i.e. the cheque wasnt cashed. The 
issue here is that we have limited evidence available from the time. In circumstances like this 
where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I need to decide whats more likely to have 
happened, on the balance of probabilities.
The only evidence that Mr and Miss G have provided to support the complaint is their 
statement that Miss G didnt receive the money. This is based on her recollection of events 
from the time. It doesnt necessarily follow that this service wont uphold a complaint where 
theres limited evidence and we are reliant on a consumers testimony. But I do have to take 
into account that the testimony here is given more than 18 years after the event took place, 
and that memories will inevitably fade over time.
Ive firstly considered if the cheque was sent to Miss G. And based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that it was more likely than not that it was. I say this because the limited system 
records Royal London sent us show the cheque was sent in 2003 to the address they held 
on file for Miss G. This address matches the address on the application form from when Mr 
G took out the endowment. 
Ive then considered if the cheque was cashed. We have no evidence to support that it was 
or that it wasnt. I dont think its unreasonable that Royal London doesnt have any records 
of whether the cheque was cashed or not, given the length of time that has passed. 
I take the point Miss G has made, that she would have remembered receiving the cheque. 
But businesses such as Royal London have processes in place where a cheque isnt 
cashed. I think its more likely than not that if the cheque wasnt cashed Royal London 
wouldve been aware of this and followed it up with Miss G at the time. 
Therefore, in the circumstances, I think it is more likely than not that the cheque was cashed. 
So, while I appreciate it will be disappointing to Mr and Miss G, Im not persuaded I can fairly 
ask Royal London to pay Miss G the maturity value of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman