DRN-2967959
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services that he signed in May 2018. He agreed to make 35 monthly payments of £416.19 
for the car and there was an optional final repayment of £27,888.40. He had an issue with 
the cars cruise control in June 2018 so he complained to BMW Financial Services but it 
didnt uphold his complaint. The issue reoccurred in April 2019 so he again complained to 
BMW Financial Services and said that he wanted to reject the car. The dealer agreed in 
January 2020 that there was a fault which it would repair but Mr M says that he wasnt told 
about the offer of a repair. 
He contacted BMW Financial Services again in August 2020 and it told him about the 
dealers offer to repair the car and said that it would refund two monthly payments to him as 
compensation for the issues that hed had with the car. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to his service. He decided not to have the car repaired and returned 
it to BMW Financial Services when the agreement ended. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He described the 
events in detail and he said that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr M because of the fault with it but he thought that the repair offered was a reasonable 
option at that time. He also said that Mr M had experienced distress and inconvenience as a 
result of the issue with the car but he thought that BMW Financial Services offer, made in 
August 2020, to refund two monthly payments was both fair and reasonable. 
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
issue is BMW Financial Services responsibility, the car shouldnt have been sold as the fault 
was easy to detect and it didnt adequately handle the issue which caused a significant delay 
and cost him time to investigate himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that 
it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr M was less than a year old, had been driven for 2,501 
miles and had a price of £39,445;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mr M complained about an issue with the car in June 2018  less than a month after 
it had been supplied to him  but BMW Financial Services didnt uphold his 
complaint;
the issue reoccurred in April 2019 and Mr M had the car inspected by a 
manufacturers dealer who said that its DME (digital motor electronics) had been 
tampered with;
Mr M complained again to BMW Financial Services and it raised the issue with the 
dealer but it said that the DME hadnt been tampered with before the car was 
supplied to Mr M;
Mr M obtained evidence to show that the DME had been tampered with before the 
car was supplied to him  and he provided that evidence to BMW Financial Services;
the dealer then offered to repair the car but Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr M 
was told about that offer;
he contacted BMW Financial Services again in August 2020 and it told him about the 
dealers offer to repair the car and offered to refund two monthly payments to him as 
compensation for the issues that hed had with the car;
Mr M didnt accept that offer and continued to use the car until he returned it when 
his agreement ended;
BMW Financial Services has accepted that there was an issue with the cars DME 
when it was supplied to Mr M so I consider that the car wouldnt have been of 
satisfactory quality at that time;
the dealer has offered to repair the car and I consider that a repair would have been 
a fair and reasonable remedy for the issue with the car  Im not persuaded that it 
would have been fair or reasonable at that time for Mr M to have rejected the car;
there was a significant delay in the fault being identified and responsibility for it being 
accepted and I sympathise with Mr M for all of the distress and inconvenience that he 
has clearly been caused  but he was able to continue to use the car during that 
time;
BMW Financial Services has offered to refund two monthly payments to Mr M as 
compensation for the issues that hed had with the car and I find that its offer to pay 
him £832.38 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
that hes been caused; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
BMW Financial Services to refund more than two monthly payments to Mr M, to pay 
him any other compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited should pay £832.38 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman