DRN-3470184
The complaint
Mr V and Mrs V have complained about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). 
They are not happy about the way it has dealt with a claim under their home insurance 
policy.
       
What happened
Mr V and Mrs V have had a claim with RSA which has been ongoing for a number of years 
in relation to subsidence. They have made other complaints about RSAs handling of their 
claim, but this particular complaint relates to the way their claim was being dealt with by RSA 
and its subcontractors. They are unhappy with continued delays and feel that they are being 
forced to accept whatever RSA and its contractors recommend. And Mr V is unhappy with 
comments made about him which he discovered following a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR) and the amount of personal data he was provided with. 
RSA looked into his complaint and offered £1,000 by way of compensation in 
acknowledgment of its delays, poor service and for any inaccuracy in the recording or 
interpretation of the comments made about Mr V on its file. But it felt it acted reasonably in 
the way it dealt with Mr Vs DSAR and felt it didnt breach any General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) guidelines. As Mr V and Mrs V were still unhappy they complained to 
this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint. Although it was 
clear there were avoidable delays she thought RSAs offer of £1,000 compensation for this 
was fair and generally thought it had acted reasonably in relation to the DSAR. Plus, she 
was satisfied that RSA had acted fairly in its appointment of its contractor to advance the 
claim.
As Mr V and Mrs V didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can understand why Mr V and Mrs V have complained and it is clear that 
RSA delayed things and made a number of mistakes in the way it dealt with some aspects of 
their claim. But I think the steps it has taken to put things right, including the compensation it 
offered, are a fair way to resolve the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr V and Mrs V, but Ill explain why.
I did ask our investigator to check with Mr V and Mrs V if they had any further evidence or 
concerns that formed part of this complaint. And Mr V and Mrs V said in response that they 
didnt feel that their request for an independent professional had been fully considered. And 
they reiterated their position in relation to the alleged GDPR breaches and what they 
believed to be false statements attributed to Mr V on RSAs file. Plus, Mr V and Mrs V 
highlighted that they were about to raise fresh complaints with RSA that they had hoped to 
avoid.
I think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in 
this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux 
of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
As our investigator outlined the timeline of delays and poor service in full I dont intend to go 
over this again here. But I agree that there were a number of avoidable delays caused by 
RSA and its agents, although I accept that Covid-19 impacted on some of the delays. 
For example, there was a long delay in getting the tree surgeon to deal with the trees that 
were causing the damage after this was identified as a problem. And the monitoring stopped 
causing unnecessary delay and there was a substantial period of time when there was little 
to no movement with the claim. I know that RSAs contractors had given Mr V and Mrs V a 
proposal that they werent happy with, which delayed matters. But RSA could have updated 
them better and it misinterpreted Mr Vs comments about whether he did or didnt want them 
to contact him which complicated things. And had it have contacted Mr V and Mrs V between 
April 2019 and February 2020 then the claim would clearly have advanced and Mr V would 
have been updated. 
Plus, there was a delay in instructing a suitable independent expert after this Service made 
recommendations in relation to a separate complaint. And although this was also impacted 
upon by Covid-19 restrictions the independent report was unnecessarily delayed.
However, RSA has offered £1,000 by way of compensation for all of this and I think that is 
fair in the circumstances of this case. This level of compensation is in line with the kind of 
award this Service ordinarily makes, and I note that Mr V and Mrs V have indicated their 
general acceptance of this award.  
I know Mr V and Mrs V would also like RSAs contractor removed from the claim as their 
relationship has broken down and for another independent expert to be appointed. But an 
independent expert was already appointed (see above) and their conclusions were generally 
in line with RSAs contractor, although I accept they recommended a different plan of action 
in looking to finalise the claim, so I cant say RSA have acted unreasonably in relying on 
their contractor to advance the claim. Or that a further independent engineer should be 
instructed. And, ultimately, it is RSAs commercial decision to decide who it wants to appoint 
to help manage the claim and it isnt for this Service to interfere with this. However, I 
understand another party has been appointed to assist with advancing the claim in any event 
which hopefully assists the movement of the claim - although I note that Mr V and Mrs V are 
looking to advance new complaints now as they remain unhappy. But any new issues would 
have to be considered separately. 
Finally, I know Mr V isnt happy about the excessive amount of personal data he was 
provided with under his DSAR and about two comments that were attributed to him on 
RSAs file. But having considered these points I cant say RSA have acted unreasonably 
here. I say this as RSA has explained that its case handler was unclear about what 
information Mr V wanted so they sent more than was necessary. I know that Mr V feels that 
RSA needed to be more specific in its response which meant he had to undertake more time 
and work in considering RSAs position. But overall, I think RSAs actions werent unreasonable. Ultimately, all the data belonged to Mr V and RSA didnt want to withhold any 
relevant information which doesnt seem unreasonable. And it didnt disclose any information 
to a third party, so I think it acted fairly. 
I know Mr V would like this Service to gain comment from the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) about all of this, but I dont think this is necessary. And Mr V is free to advance 
this issue to the ICO if he wishes. But, having looked at this point I dont think RSA needs to 
take any further action. I know Mr V would like a further £250 compensation but I dont feel 
this level of compensation is warranted, especially when it has already offered £1,000 
compensation by way of general apology for the poor service, delay and any 
misunderstanding of the comments on file (see below).
In relation to the two comments attributed to Mr V recorded on file I can understand why 
these have caused offence. And I can see why these comments contributed to the general 
delay in advancing the claim. But the comments (I can see that you requested no contact 
from. and your reluctance to progress with the additional investigation has delayed 
matters) are an interpretation from the time of contact between the parties. And I feel the 
level of compensation RSA has awarded would generally cover this issue as well, so I dont 
think the compensation level should be increased.
Given all of this, Im not asking RSA to do anymore here. I say this as although I accept that 
there have been a number of failings and delays I think RSAs offer of £1,000 compensation 
to try and put things right feels fair. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr V and 
Mrs V, who feel that they should be awarded a further £250, but I think this feels fair in the 
particular circumstances of this case.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman