DRN-2557333
The complaint
Miss S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) didnt tell her that it had recorded a default on her credit file. Miss S has now 
settled the debt and so she would like the default removed.
What happened
Miss S took out a loan for a car in December 2016. In March 2017 Miss S fell into difficulties 
maintaining the repayments and the account went into arrears. Miss S was sent letters about 
the arrears and asked to bring the account up to date. In July 2017 Miss S was sent a 
default notice which explained that if the account wasnt brought up to date by 2 August 
2017 a default would be notified to the credit reference agencies.
The account wasnt brought up to date and the debt was sold on to a third party. Miss S 
made arrangements with the third party to repay the debt, but she says that she wasnt 
aware that a default has actually been recorded on her credit file and BPF never told her it 
had recorded the default.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. They thought that BPF 
had sent Miss S letters about the debt and warned her about the default if she did not bring 
the account up to date. They didnt think that BPF had done anything wrong or acted unfairly 
in recording the default and so it shouldnt be removed.
  
Miss S didnt agree and responded to say in summary that BPF accepted sporadic 
repayments and it never made it clear that it had recorded the default which was unfair.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S accepts that she didnt make the repayments on time and that she received the 
letters about the arrears on the account. BPF had the correct address for Miss S and it did 
write to her to ask her to bring the account up to date. 
When the account had been consistently in arrears BPF issued a default notice and 
explained what would happen if Miss S didnt bring the account up to date by the 2 August 
2017. This letter set out that BPF would notify credit reference agencies that the account 
was in default. Miss S didnt bring the account up to date, so I dont think BPF did anything 
wrong by not writing to Miss S again explaining that it had placed the default marker on her 
credit file. 
BPF are obliged to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies about how 
the account has been operated. I dont think BPF acted unfairly and I dont think the 
information that the credit reference agencies were given was incorrect or unfair. 
Although Miss S has now repaid the debt, I dont think that changes the situation. Miss 
wasnt able to repay the loan as agreed and the account was defaulted. I am glad that Miss 
S is no longer in financial difficulty, but I think it would give a misleading picture to future 
lenders if the default was removed. 
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Miss S, but I cant ask BPF to remove the 
default.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman