DRN-3279213
The complaint
Mr S has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFUM) failed to properly advise him during the sale and renewal of his motor trade 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S held a motor trade insurance policy with NFUM. He claimed on his policy after his 
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
NFUM turned down Mr Ss claim. They said Mr Ss policy provided cover for interruption to 
his business for certain insured events, but this didnt include losses caused by Covid-19 
and the Governments response to the national pandemic. NFUM said that there was 
additional cover available under an extension for human diseases which Mr S didnt have on 
his policy. However, they said that even if Mr S had bought the additional cover, the policy 
still wouldnt have provided cover as it only covered a list of specified diseases which didnt 
include Covid-19.
Mr S complained to our service. He said NFUM hadnt properly advised him of the possible 
risks under the business interruption section of his policy and if they had he would have 
taken out adequate insurance. 
NFUM said they had carried out a review of cover in May 2019 and there was no indication 
that Mr S required cover for pandemics. 
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
explained that our service isnt able to consider the initial sale of the policy in this particular 
complaint. However, he didnt think NFUM had failed to properly advise Mr S during the 
insurance review in May 2019.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic on Mr Ss business. However, I wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Our Investigator has explained to Mr S why we cant consider the initial sale of the policy. As 
that hasnt been disputed I dont intend to comment on that further and will instead focus my 
decision on the renewal of Mr Ss policy in 2019. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy, a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy which is consistent 
with those demands and needs. NFUM renewed Mr Ss policy on an advised basis which 
means they have to take reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of their advice. They also 
have a general duty to provide information that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
NFUM undertook a face to face review of Mr Ss cover in May 2019. Ive seen a copy of the 
Insurance Review document. The review includes a table which indicates that business 
interruption cover was already included in the cover held by Mr S. The document also says 
that the level of cover required by that section of the policy was reviewed. 
Theres no indication that there was any discussion between NFUM and Mr S about whether 
he required cover for diseases or pandemics. Im not going to make a finding on the reason 
why the disease extension wasnt added to the policy during the original sale. However, I 
havent seen anything to indicate that Mr S said he wanted cover for disease at the renewal, 
and I havent seen anything to suggest that cover for diseases was something NFUM ought 
to have known was particularly relevant to Mr Ss business in May 2019.
I understand that Mr S assumed that as he was covered for business interruption this would 
cover him if his business was interrupted. However, the policy doesnt cover every risk and 
what is and isnt covered is set out within the policy terms and conditions. I wouldnt expect 
NFUM to have highlighted to Mr S, in May 2019, that his policy didnt cover him for a 
pandemic caused by an unknown disease.  
I accept that Mr S does seem to have wanted cover for every eventuality and may have 
bought the additional cover for diseases if NFUM had told him about it. However, even if     
Mr S had bought the additional cover, the policy still wouldnt have provided cover for Covid-
19 as it wasnt one of the defined diseases covered by the policy. Therefore, even if NFUM 
had let Mr S know about the option to add a disease extension to his policy, it wouldnt have 
made a difference to the outcome of his claim. I also dont think its likely that Mr S would 
have sought wider cover for diseases as he had a separate policy for another business 
which did include the same extension. 
Following the review, NFUM sent Mr S a copy of the renewal documents and asked Mr S to 
check them to ensure they met his needs. I think the documents clearly set out the 
discussion that had taken place at the review and the cover NFUM recommended. I havent 
seen anything to indicate that Mr S let NFUM know that the policy wasnt suitable, and the 
policy therefore renewed.  
In summary, NFUM specified Mr Ss demands and needs in the Insurance Review and I 
havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy they sold wasnt consistent with those 
demands and needs. NFUM also provided information in a way to Mr S that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. Overall, Im satisfied that NFUM took reasonable steps to ensure the 
suitability of their advice when renewing Mr Ss policy. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NFUM to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman