DRN-3975517
The complaint
Mr F has complained about Santander UK Plcs (Santander) handling of his request to see 
the personal information it holds about him  known as a Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR).
What happened
Mr F complained to Santander in August 2019 that Santander had previously (operating 
under a different name) mis-sold him a Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance (MPPI) 
policy. 
In October 2020 Santander wrote to Mr F to explain that it was unable to locate any MPPI 
policy using the details Mr F had provided and asked for further information. 
Mr F responded to this and said hed provided all of the necessary information needed to 
locate his MPPI policy. Santander responded saying that it still needed the relevant 
information to help locate the policy. Santander confirmed in a letter dated 23 March 2021 to 
say that it was able to locate details of a life policy, but not a MPPI policy.
Unhappy with Santanders handling of his MPPI complaint, Mr F requested Santander to 
provide all information that it holds about him. This request was made in April 2021.
Santander wrote to Mr F on 4 June 2021 to confirm that it will process his DSAR and will 
respond to him within 28 days. Unfortunately, this was not acted upon by Santander until 
July 2021  after the deadline to respond to a DSAR had already expired. However, when 
Santander responded to the DSAR on 21 July 2021, I understand it said that it was unable to 
locate any personal data and asked Mr F to provide additional information, such as a 
previous address it may be able to find the data Mr F is after.  
After Mr F raised further concerns with how his DSAR was handled, Santander wrote to Mr F 
on 26 October 2021 and confirmed that it was still unable to find any information about a 
MPPI policy. It confirmed that Mr F had made payments to a third-party insurer for a life 
insurance policy and said to Mr F to contact that insurer if he wanted more information. 
Santander acknowledged it had not handled Mr Fs DSAR correctly and said it will be 
sending further information it had located to Mr F shortly. To reflect the errors in how itd 
handled the DSAR, Santander agreed to pay Mr F £200 compensation.
Unhappy with Santanders responses, on 30 October 2021 Mr F asked Santander again to 
provide information that it holds about him. Santander responded to this request for 
information it held about him on 1 December 2021. Delivery of the documents was 
attempted on 6 December 2021 and Mr F received the documents on 10 December 2021.
Santander wrote to Mr F on 21 December 2021 and explained that as the mortgage that Mr 
F had held with Santander was redeemed in 2006, a lot of the information it may have held 
about him had since been deleted. It also said that it doesnt hold information about a life 
insurance policy, as that was provided by a third party, and suggested he contact the insurer 
directly to obtain more information about it. Santander apologised for how the DSAR had 
been handled and agreed to pay Mr F a further £75 by way of an apology.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mr F referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they concluded that, due to how 
Santander handled Mr Fs DSARs, it should pay Mr F a further £200 (in addition to the £275 
already offered by Santander) to reflect the added distress and inconvenience that it had 
caused Mr F.
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
One of our ombudsmen has already considered Mr Fs complaint regarding the mis-sale of a 
MPPI policy, so it wont be and cant be addressed in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, overall I think what the adjudicator proposed in her assessment 
of the complaint is reasonable, and that Santander should pay Mr F a further £200 (in 
addition to the £275 already offered by Santander), to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused Mr F. I will explain why.
Santanders handling of the MPPI Mis-sale complaint
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Mr F has raised a number of complaint points. Some 
of these include points about how Santander handled his MPPI mis-sale complaint  namely 
about difficulties he had in initially raising a complaint; how long it took Santander to consider 
his complaint; and also that he was required to resubmit information.
But the rules our service are governed by  known as the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP 
Rules)  say that our service can only consider complaints about regulated activities. And 
complaint handling is an unregulated activity and so falls outside of my jurisdiction. This 
means Im unable to consider, or comment upon, the way in which Santander handled Mr 
Fs MPPI mis-sale complaint or how long it took. And it also means any upset or 
inconvenience Mr F suffered because of how the MPPI mis-sale complaint was handled 
cant be considered when I think about what a fair offer of compensation should be.
The Financial Ombudsmans role
Turning now to the parts of Mr Fs complaint that I can consider, I think it may also help to 
explain that our service is not a regulator. Therefore, it is not our role to fine or punish 
financial businesses for any potential wrongdoing. As such any award our service makes is 
not intended to be punitive. 
Instead, our role is to look at individual complaints, and where we think that a financial 
business has done something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably, we will instruct the 
relevant financial business to put matters right.
I can also see that in many of the letters Mr F has written, he asks many questions and is 
often frustrated that his specific questions are not always answered - or answered by a date 
specified by him. To manage Mr Fs expectations, I wont be answering each and every 
question he has raised, in this decision. I have looked at his complaint as a whole, to 
determine whether what has been recommended by the adjudicator so far to put matters 
right is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I appreciate that Mr F may not be too 
happy about this, but I would like to assure Mr F that I have considered everything he has 
provided. 
And having considered everything that has been provided, its quite clear that matters have 
not been handled as they shouldve by Santander. Firstly, I can see that Santander has made a number of errors when dealing with Mr Fs 
DSARs. For example, Santander mis-spelt Mr Fs name and address and it had incorrectly 
dated a letter as 3 June 2021 (as evidence by the fact that the letter refers to 
correspondence dated 4 June 2021, 15 June 2021 and 29 June 2021). 
However, I understand that the main aspect of Mr Fs dissatisfaction is with how it dealt with 
his DSARs, and also because Santander didnt provide him with the information he wanted  
which was a copy of a MPPI agreement he says he was obliged to sign when he took out his 
mortgage.
How Santander dealt with the DSARs
Turning now to the DSARs that Mr F made, its not in dispute by both sides that Santander 
didnt deal with Mr Fs DSAR made in April 2021 correctly.
I understand that Santander didnt respond to the initial DSAR until 21 July 2021, which was 
outside the time limit it was required to respond by. Santander has explained that the delay 
was caused by the DSAR being sent to the wrong department, and as the team handling the 
DSAR had not been provided with Mr Fs previous address information, it was unable to 
locate any information about him. Having waited for around three months for Santander to 
respond, I understand why Mr F was frustrated by Santanders response.
As Santander was unable to provide Mr F with any information, this then prompted Mr F to 
contact Santander again to ask that it provide all of the personal information it held about 
him.
I understand Santander did this in two responses, one sent in October 2021 and another 
sent in December 2021 (although I note from Mr Fs letters that he mayve also been sent 
some information on other occasions too e.g. September 2021). 
It is not entirely clear why it took Santander at least two further attempts to provide Mr F with 
the personal information it held about him. And I can appreciate that there was a fair amount 
of back and forth between Mr F and Santander, before Santander says that it had finally 
provided all of the personal information it held about Mr F.
Having looked through the exchange of correspondence, I do think that awarding a further 
£200 compensation  as recommended by the adjudicator - is warranted in this case. I say 
this as I think Santander clearly couldve handled the DSARs much better from the outset 
than it did. And the matter has clearly caused Mr F a fair amount of inconvenience and 
frustration in asking for the information Santander holds about him. By awarding Mr F a 
further £200, this will bring the total amount of compensation to be paid to him to £475  
which I think more accurately reflects the impact this matter has had on Mr F.
Santander didnt provide a copy of an MPPI agreement
I understand that, beyond various questions about how Santander has handled his DSARs, 
a large part of Mr Fs frustration is the fact that Santander has not provided him with a copy 
of a MPPI agreement he says he signed.
In fairness to Santander, it has been consistent throughout (once it had responded to his 
MPPI mis-sale complaint) in saying that it had been unable to find any record of Mr F having 
an MPPI policy and had only been able to locate evidence of a life insurance policy. 
Santander says that it sent the evidence of the life insurance policy to Mr F in October 2021 
 and has provided evidence of the document it sent (a copy of which the adjudicator shared 
with Mr F recently). Whereas Mr F disputes this and says that he was not sent the document 
in question regarding the life insurance policy. 
Overall, I think the document was likely to have been sent to Mr F. I say this because firstly, 
Santander provided our service with a copy of the cover letter and document from its DSAR 
file and the cover letter looks to have been correctly addressed. And secondly, in a letter 
Santander sent to Mr F on 26 October 2021, Santander acknowledged that it had failed to send him the document in previous DSARs, apologised for not doing so and said that a copy 
of the document would be sent to him. Specifically, the letter said:
We dont have any paperwork relating to the life insurance policy but will provide you with a 
copy of the information sent to us by [insurer] in response to our enquiries. You would need 
to contact [insurer] directly to ascertain any further data they may hold on you. Details of how 
to contact them can be found on their website: [insurers website]
Therefore, if Mr F says he didnt receive the document, I think its more likely the case that it 
was lost in the post rather than it being the case that Santander was withholding the 
information from him  after all Santander acknowledged the existence of the document, 
explained that it had been obtained from the insurer in question and said to Mr F that it 
would send a copy of the document to him. But either way, I think that the redress proposed 
by the adjudicator reasonably reflects the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr F by 
him having to chase for the life insurance documentation that Santander promised to send 
him.
When responding to the DSARs, Santander explained that it only holds limited information 
about the mortgage (and therefore any product that mayve been linked to it), as the 
mortgage was redeemed in 2006. I appreciate that Mr F may be disappointed about the 
limited amount of information that Santander was able to provide him when responding to his 
DSARs. But no financial business can be expected to hold on to information about 
customers indefinitely. Indeed, modern data protection regulations require businesses to 
delete information once it is no longer needed  so I cant reasonably say that Santander is 
being unreasonable or obstructive, because it now cant provide as much detailed historical 
information when responding to a DSAR, as it mayve held in the past.
Despite the responses to Mr Fs DSARs, I understand that Mr F is adamant that he had a 
MPPI policy in place. But one of our ombudsmen has already looked into that matter and 
issued a final decision - essentially concluding that there was not enough evidence to be 
able to say that he was sold an MPPI policy. So, as frustrated as Mr F is by this, I cant 
comment or make a finding on whether he likely did have an MPPI policy with Santander.
Putting things right
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Santander dealt with Mr Fs requests for 
information it held about him in a fair and reasonable manner. And because of how it 
handled the requests, this has clearly caused Mr F a fair amount of distress and 
inconvenience, over a fairly lengthy period of time.
However, I note that Santander has been consistent throughout by saying that it was unable 
to find any evidence that Mr F had a MPPI policy in its records. And that the only policy 
details it could locate was a life insurance policy - which Im satisfied that Santander sent to 
Mr F in October 2021. So in the circumstances, I cant reasonably make any award for Mr 
Fs frustration because Santander was unable to provide him with a copy of an MPPI 
agreement.   
As such, in addition to the £275 that Santander has already agreed to pay Mr F, Santander 
UK PLC needs to pay Mr F a further £200 compensation, for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused him. 
Doing this will bring the total amount of compensation awarded to Mr F in relation to this 
matter to £475.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK PLC 
to do what I have outlined above, to put matters right, in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman