DRN-3059431
The complaint
Miss B complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (trading as Nissan Finance) (NF) 
reported incorrect information to credit reference agencies (CRAs) causing inaccurate 
information to be recorded on her credit file.
What happened
In 2016 Miss B took out a finance agreement with NF for a car. She had some financial 
problems in 2017 and the account fell into arrears. In May 2018 NF issued a default notice 
requiring over £900 to be paid by 12 June 2018. Miss B was unable to pay this in time and 
NF terminated the finance agreement and recorded a default on her credit file. 
In July 2018 Miss B paid the outstanding balance. She thought that was an end to the matter 
but she was refused credit by some high street lenders when she applied for a mortgage in 
2020. Miss B thought this was due to incorrect information that NF had reported to CRAs 
and she complained to NF.
NF said the default was reported properly but it had made a mistake - because it didnt 
report the nil balance to CRAs. NF agreed to update Miss Bs credit file to show the debt was 
satisfied in July 2018. It also offered to pay Miss B £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Miss B didnt think that was fair so she referred the matter to our 
service.
Initially, our investigator thought the resolution NF offered was reasonable - as the default 
was reported properly and it was unlikely NFs mistake had a more negative impact than the 
default itself. She was satisfied that NF had corrected the balance information and the 
compensation offered was fair so she didnt think NF should have to do anything else.
Miss B said there was no evidence a default letter had been sent and the default process 
was unclear but her main issue was the mismanagement of information reported by NF. She 
thought NFs inaccurate reporting damaged her credit status meaning she had to pay more 
to borrow. She said one CRA was showing the letter D from June 2018 until the start of 
2021  meaning numerous Individual defaults were recorded against her account. And NFs 
mistakes meant she had to pay a bigger deposit and more for a mortgage  which caused 
her to lose out on the home she really wanted.
The investigator was satisfied that NF sent Miss B a default notice in May 2018 which stated 
clearly what the next steps would be and NF followed the standard process wed expect in 
this situation. But, it looked as if the D displayed on Miss Bs credit file wasnt the way that 
NF would usually record a default. As this seemed to be out of line with NFs usual policy, 
the investigator recommended NF should remove all defaults recorded after June 2018 and 
pay Miss B another £100 compensation for additional distress and inconvenience.
Miss B didnt think this was sufficient. She says shes lost about £12,000 as a result of what 
happened  in additional payments required. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, I was minded to reach a 
different outcome to the investigator - in that I thought the offer the business made 
represents a fair and reasonable resolution to Miss Bs complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2021 to let the parties see my provisional findings 
and make further submissions if they wanted to before I made my final decision. A copy of 
what I decided provisionally (and why) is set out below and this forms part of my final 
decision. 
My provisional decision
Im sorry to hear about the problems Miss B had getting a mortgage. I can see this must 
have been distressing and I understand she feels shes had to pay more to borrow because 
of mistakes NF made. Ive looked at what happened in order to decide if something NF did 
wrong caused Miss B to lose out financially - and, if so, what NF should do to put things 
right.
Im satisfied (from information NF supplied) that Miss Bs account fell into arrears in 2017. 
Ive also considered NFs contact notes from the relevant time. I think these seem 
reasonably detailed and consistent with other information. Im satisfied that NF took the 
steps wed expect when Miss B began to experience financial problems  it contacted her to 
find out more about her circumstances and she was allowed some additional time to bring 
the account up to date.
By May 2018, Miss B was several months behind in her payments. It looks as if NF spoke to 
her around this time and Miss B said that she wasnt in a position to pay off the arrears. Im 
satisfied NF sent Miss B a default notice that told her about payment options and signposted 
sources of free advice. Unfortunately - and I appreciate she was in a difficult situation at the 
time  Miss B was unable to make the payment needed to bring the account up to date 
within the relevant time so NF defaulted the account and ended the finance agreement. 
I can see that Miss B took steps to pay back what she owed not long after - but Im afraid 
that doesnt mean NF was obliged to remove the default. The Office of the Information 
Commissioner (ICO) has published guidance on the reporting of defaults and other 
information to CRAs. This says (so far as its relevant) a lender would be expected to 
register a default if a consumer was between three and six months behind in payments. It 
looks as if Miss Bs account was about five months in arrears when it defaulted here and I 
cant reasonably find NF was wrong to report that to CRAs.
In fairness, I dont think Miss B actually disputes the default applied in June 2018. As I 
understand it, she thinks NF went on to incorrectly report a default every month for about two 
years  meaning numerous defaults appeared on her credit file. Miss B sent us a screenshot 
summary of her credit file with three different CRAs. I can see that one CRA shows this 
account defaulted in June 2018 with a four figure balance owing but I think thats factually 
accurate and I cant fairly find its wrong. I accept the same CRA displays a D every month 
from June 2018 as well - and, if each D stood for a fresh default Id agree thats not right. 
But, I dont think thats what happened and Ill explain why.
Im satisfied the finance agreement ended in June 2018 when Miss Bs account defaulted  
so its not possible for the account to default again. Ive also checked information provided 
by the relevant CRA about the way information is recorded and what different letters and 
numbers (such as those that appear on Miss Bs credit record) mean.
This particular CRA says Every credit account includes a list of status codes. These show 
whether you have made your credit repayments over the past six years (72 months).The last 12 months payments are shown in full (the most recent is shown first).Underneath the status 
codes is a summary of payments, unless the status code shown is 8 (which is a default, 
where you have broken the terms of your account).The code shown against settled 
accounts relates to the period before these accounts were settled.
The same CRA goes on to explain that numbers 1  6 denote payments that are between 1 
and over 6 months late - and the letter D means the account is not being used, nothing is 
owed and the lender has not been able to provide information on the payment history for this 
month.
Miss B also sent us a full copy of her credit report from this CRA as at April 2021 - which 
says its updated to February 2021. Im satisfied the balance is showing as nil - so NF has 
corrected its mistake. I accept the number 8 is still displayed against Miss Bs account  
which is the status code for a default. But, I dont think thats inaccurate because (as the 
note underneath on the credit report explains) a default is only removed after six years - 
whether or not the debt is repaid.
The ICO guidance, I referred to above, also makes it clear that a default will remain on a 
credit file for 6 years from the date of the default. Ive asked the investigator to send Miss B 
links to the ICO guidance and the information provided by the CRA - so she can consider 
these for herself, if she wants to. For the reasons Ive explained however, Im not persuaded 
that the number 8 or the letter D showing as it does means NF reported numerous defaults 
here. From the evidence Ive seen, I think NF reported one default correctly in June 2018 - 
and I cant reasonably require NF to remove that - in these circumstances.
Theres no dispute that NF made a mistake - in that it failed to tell CRAs that Miss B repaid 
this debt in July 2018. Im not persuaded that this error alone is likely to have had the impact 
that Miss B suggests on her credit status. Im satisfied each lender has its own lending 
criteria and lenders take many factors into account when deciding whether to lend and on 
what terms. I accept information on a credit file is likely to be something a lender would 
consider. But I dont think NFs failure to update the account balance is likely to have been 
the only reason Miss B was refused credit - or offered less attractive terms. 
I can see a number of missed/late payments and arrears were recorded on Miss Bs credit 
file in the months before this account defaulted. Like the investigator, I think its more likely 
than not this information - along with the default itself - would have impacted adversely on 
Miss Bs credit standing. So, whilst I sympathise with the situation she found herself in, I 
cant reasonably find NFs error was the sole cause of Miss B being refused (or charged 
more for) credit.
I appreciate it must have been worrying and frustrating for Miss B to find the account 
balance NF reported wasnt up to date for so many months. But, Im satisfied that NF has 
corrected this information now. And I consider the £250 compensation NF offered seems fair 
for the distress and inconvenience Miss B experienced as a result of its error. I cant 
therefore reasonably require NF to pay more compensation or do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I invited the parties to let me have any further comments or 
evidence by the 17 August 2021 and explained that I would look at all the evidence available 
after that and make my final decision.NF has responded and accepted my provisional decision with nothing further to add. Miss B 
didnt reply and the investigator allowed her some additional time to comment or provide new 
evidence. The time limit the investigator set has now passed and Miss B hasnt sent us 
anything else. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions in the 
circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that NF has rectified Miss Bs credit file and I 
remain of the view the offer NF made - to pay £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its mistake - is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I 
realise this decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss M as its not the outcome 
she wanted. But, shes not obliged to accept what Ive said, in which case it remains open to 
Miss B to pursue the matter by any other means available.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is the offer made already is fair and RCI 
Financial Services Limited (trading as Nissan Finance) should pay Miss B £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience (if it hasnt done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman