DRN-3201856
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the charges Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied to his account for 
the use of his overdraft. He says he wasnt notified of the charges in advance. 
What happened
Mr K complained to Santander about the charges applied to his account. He felt the charges 
were disproportionate and was unaware of the charges until recently when he did a review of 
his account.  
Santander said Mr Ks account moved from a Graduate Account to an Everyday Current 
Account in July 2011. It says Mr K wouldve been notified of the maturity of the graduate 
account and that no charges wouldve been applied before this. Santander says all charges 
applied to the account were notified on the monthly statements and applied correctly in-line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion Santander 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr K unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr K disagreed he wants Santander to repay all the charges applied to his 
account. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr Ks first complaint point is that he was unaware until a recent review of his account that 
he was being charged for the use of his overdraft and that Santander failed to notify him of 
the charges. Santanders records show that Mr Ks overdraft facility became chargeable 
when his graduate account matured in 2011.
Ive seen copies of Mr Ks bank statements dating back as far as 2015 and can see that the 
statement is titled Everyday Current Account and on the statement it provides the details of 
the overdraft limit and fees as well as a breakdown of fees charged for the statement period.
It might well be the case that Mr K up until recently didnt review his statements, but I 
consider a monthly statement with a breakdown of charges for the period a reasonable 
notification of charges. So I cant say Santander did anything wrong here. 
Mr K has also referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before 
I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts Santander charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Santanders various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr K if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ks account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr K was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Santander didnt treat Mr K fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that Santander did treat Mr K unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Mr Ks statements I cant see anything to 
suggest that Santander ought to have realised Mr K might have been experiencing financial 
difficulties prior to it being notified of this. 
Mr Ks statements show that although Mr K used his overdraft he was able to regularly bring 
the overdraft down and at times bring the account into credit. There were also significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. I accept this 
doesnt necessarily mean that Mr K wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt 
anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Santander to any 
potential financial difficulty
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Ks account 
was being used. And I dont think that Santander treated Mr K unfairly or unreasonably and 
this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr K. But I he understands the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman