DRN-3139727
The complaint
Miss M complains about the performance and management of two Child Trust Funds she 
holds with Forester Life Limited trading as Foresters Financial.
What happened
Foresters took over management of the accounts from a previous business in 2017.
In mid 2020 Miss M, with the help of a representative, complained to Foresters as she was 
unhappy with the investment performance of the accounts as they had fallen in value, and 
that she hadnt been alerted to what was happening.  
Foresters looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. They said they dont own the 
funds where the accounts are invested, and that they only manage the accounts. Foresters 
said they dont offer advice and are only responsible for administration. They said that 
statements had been provided and that access to account information was available online.
Miss M was unhappy with the response so brought her complaint to this service where one 
of our Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Foresters had acted fairly and 
reasonably and saw no evidence of poor management or poor communication. They said 
that Foresters are only responsible for the administration of the funds and they dont offer 
advice, and nor did they give any when the accounts were opened. Miss M remained 
unhappy, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has provided quite a lot of information about this complaint and I want to assure her 
that Ive read and considered everything thats been provided. Its also clear how strongly 
Miss M feels about what happened. Ive summarised some things which reflects the informal 
nature of our service. If I dont address a particular point thats been raised its not because I 
havent thought about it, its because Ive concentrated on the crux of the complaint. Our 
Investigator went into quite a bit of detail about the situation so I wont repeat everything 
here.
The accounts were taken out independently by Miss M so it was up to her to consider the 
suitability of the investments and the level of risk at that time. Im satisfied the original 
documentation was clear, fair, and not misleading. It also explained there was no guarantee 
about the amount of return from the investments.
I appreciate that Mrs M is disappointed with the performance of the accounts. But the way in 
which a product provider manages investments is a matter for its own commercial judgment. 
So, I dont think Forester Life have done anything wrong as they only administer the 
accounts.
Foresters offer online access to the accounts and send out statements which allow Miss M 
to monitor performance if she wishes. Whilst Foresters dont offer advice, they do have other 
investment funds available if Miss M wants to make any changes. 
In general investment returns have fallen a lot in the last ten years or so, and have recently 
been impacted more by the pandemic, so its no surprise the accounts havent performed as 
well as was expected when they were taken out. Poor investment performance is not 
unusual for the time and doesnt suggest to me that Foresters have done anything wrong in 
managing the accounts.
I know Miss M is disappointed with the performance of the accounts, and there does seem to 
have been a financial loss, but this isnt something I can hold Foresters responsible for. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Foresters acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Miss M and administering the accounts. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman