DRN-3188722
The complaint
Mr A complains about Monzo Bank Ltds decision to close his account.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr A opened an account with Monzo and let somebody else use it. A few 
days later, Monzo closed the account immediately. 
Mr A complained to Monzo. Monzo responded to Mr As complaint and advised the terms 
and conditions allow them to close the account. Monzo also said they wouldnt give Mr A any 
information on why theyd decided to close it. Mr A brought the complaint to our service.
Mr A told our service that an individual tricked him into sharing his account details. Mr A said 
hed been bullied.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt think Monzo had acted unfairly. She explained 
that Monzo were entitled to close Mr As account immediately  and as the account hadnt 
been used, she didnt think there had been a big impact on Mr A.
Mr A disagreed. He asked why Monzo allowed his fake friend to continue to have an 
account and not him. Mr A also shared screenshots of conversations between him and the 
individual who he said used his account. 
Our investigator explained she couldnt comment on Monzos actions relating to another 
customers account. But she was still satisfied, based on the circumstances, that their 
actions when closing Mr As account immediately was fair.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr As complaint  I dont think Monzo acted unfairly. I 
know Mr A will be disappointed, and Im sorry I cant help him in the way hed like me to. Ive 
explained the reasons for my decision below.
Im aware Mr A opened his Monzo account on 13 December 2020 and Monzo made the 
decision to close it immediately on 15 December 2020. Its important I explain that Monzo 
are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory 
obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing 
relationships. 
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr A decided to stop banking with Monzo  he wouldnt have had to explain why. 
Monzo can only close the account immediately in certain circumstances. Ive reviewed the 
full circumstances of this complaint, and Im satisfied Monzos actions were fair. The terms 
and conditions of the account, which Monzo have complied with, explain the circumstances 
when Monzo can close an account without notice. While I cant share the reasons with Mr A 
directly, Id like to reassure him that having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Monzo havent 
made an unfair decision.
I appreciate being left without an account would be distressing. But Im aware Mr A didnt 
deposit any money into the account  and therefore wasnt actively using it. Mr A has likely 
found himself in this position because of another individual. He says he was tricked and 
bullied into sharing his account details. I dont doubt Mr A has been left in a very difficult 
position and Im sorry hes found himself without a Monzo account. But I cant fairly say 
Monzo have acted unfairly.
Overall, Im satisfied Monzo have complied with the relevant terms and conditions when 
closing Mr As account immediately. Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied Monzo didnt 
do anything wrong  and therefore I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman