DRN-2896014
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained about the offer Zurich Insurance PLC made to them in respect of 
their kitchen. This related to a claim on their home insurance policy. Reference to Zurich will 
include their agents, and references to Mr and Mrs H include their representative.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs kitchen was damaged by a fire in early 2019. There were other areas of 
damage, but this complaint relates only to the kitchen.
Zurich assessed Mr and Mrs Hs claim and felt that £7,500 would be sufficient to replace the 
kitchen with another good quality one, including labour.
But Mr and Mrs H sent their own quote for a new kitchen of the same make as their 
damaged one, as its considered to be a luxury brand. Mr and Mrs Hs quote totalled 
£50,247.48 including VAT.
Zurich considered that to be excessive but agreed to reconsider bearing in mind the make of 
Mr and Mrs Hs kitchen. Zurich returned to Mr and Mrs H in October 2020 with an offer of 
£30,591.88 including VAT.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with that either. They said they wanted a fully itemised list 
showing how that figure had been calculated. Zurich in turn requested Mr and Mrs H provide 
the same.
Unfortunately, neither party was able to do this due to a trading agreement between the 
businesses which sell these kitchens. An agreement couldnt be reached and Zurich said 
their offer was final, making a payment of £350 compensation for delays.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with that so brought their complaint to our service. An 
investigator here looked into the matter. They felt the offer had been fair, noting that only a 
small part of the kitchen was damaged. And that even though the policy didnt cover 
replacement of undamaged parts, a 50% contribution had been made towards those.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They still felt the fact that Zurichs calculation hadnt been 
provided was unfair.
Mr and Mrs H also raised other areas of concern with the claim, generally relating to other 
rooms. But Zurich confirmed that this complaint only related to the kitchen and if
Mr and Mrs H wanted to complain about the other aspects, theyd have to raise those with 
them in the first instance.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but I think Zurichs offer is fair. Ill explain why.
Id like to first address the fact that neither party has provided fully broken-down costings for 
the replacement. That appears to have been unavoidable, but I note that both parties 
attempted to obtain one. Thats unfortunate and its neither partys fault, but it does make it 
difficult to assess the matter.
From what I can see, Zurich took a pragmatic approach. They reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs 
quote and felt that, given the majority of the kitchen was undamaged, offering £30,591.88 
was reasonable. This was on the basis of providing full settlement for the irreparable parts 
and a 50% contribution toward the undamaged parts. Thats based on what we generally 
consider to be fair when settling claims in relation to matching sets, i.e. kitchens, bathroom 
suites etc.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H have suggested that to properly clean the parts which were 
smoke damaged would in itself cause damage, so theyre effectively irreparable following the 
fire. But the kitchen has already been professionally cleaned, and Ive not seen anything to 
make me think that was insufficient or that a more thorough clean would cause further 
damage, so Im not persuaded by that point. And it seems to me that Mr and Mrs H would 
like their whole kitchen replaced, because new units wouldnt match their existing ones, so I 
think the matching sets approach is appropriate.
The fire damage has been said to be to the cooker hood, surrounding dcor panel and the 
two wall units either side. The quote of c£50,000 was for the whole kitchen (which from the 
photographs, I dont consider to be small). Even if Zurich was only paying a 50% contribution 
to the whole kitchen itd be around £25,000. In the absence of a breakdown being available I 
believe its likely that the over £5,000 in excess of that would allow for replacement of those 
irreparable parts.
Bearing in mind it was only a small part of the kitchen that seems to have been irreparable, 
and Zurich has offered significantly more than the policy provides for, I think Mr and Mrs H 
have been treated fairly. The policy doesnt provide for a whole new kitchen in these 
circumstances. Although I should say, had Zurich only offered for the irreparable parts, Id 
likely have found that to be unfair.
I understand what Mr and Mrs H have said about their policy being new for old. But that 
means settlement is based on a new equivalent of what you had before. So, while the 
kitchen may have been a luxury top of the range one when first installed many years ago, it 
doesnt necessarily mean the new one has to be a luxury top of the range one now.
Other brands or suppliers are likely to be able to produce something equivalent to what was 
available many years ago. And I think its likely that Mr and Mrs Hs preferred brand has 
made improvements to their own product over time. To be clear, Im not saying
Mr and Mrs H are trying to claim for something thats better than what they had, but I thought 
it would be helpful to give some context to this point.
Turing to the compensation of £350 for the delays in this case, I think that was fair too. I 
appreciate the kitchen is an integral part of the home but understand it was cleaned and was 
operational. So, while I appreciate it took Zurich a long time to make their revised offer,
Mr and Mrs H hadnt been without a kitchen all that time. Had that been the case, its likely a 
greater compensation award would be considered fair.
Overall, I think Zurich has made a fair offer of settlement for Mr and Mrs Hs kitchen. And while there were delays in this, I think the compensation offered for that is fair too.  
Putting things right
Zurich Insurance PLC has offered to pay Mr and Mrs H £30,591.88 for their damaged 
kitchen. And £350 compensation for delays. I think this is fair and any payments not yet 
made should be paid to resolve this matter.
My final decision
It is my final decision that Zurich Insurance PLC should put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman