DRN-3606224
The complaint
Mr A complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial Services.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, 
who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality 
of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr A. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when VWFS were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Im persuaded there was a fault with this car when it was supplied as the job cards show 
there was a wheel alignment carried out in March 2020, four months after receipt. 
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault present at the 
point of supply and I think VWFS had that opportunity in March 2020.
I think the subsequent inspections and the testimony of Mr A suggest that repair was 
unsuccessful. The inspection in August 2021 noted a degree of body roll and a further 
inspection commissioned by Mr A in December 2021 identified understeer and corroborated 
Mr As concerns that the suspension wasnt absorbing road noise effectively and felt loose. 
That inspector also noted that the offside rear wheel was off angle.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation suggests the consumer should be allowed to 
reject the car. I think thats what VWFS should do.
I understand that Mr A thinks the car supplied to him was the one he originally ordered that 
had sustained damage. I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient evidence to suggest 
that was the case. Ive not considered those issues in this decision as the initial vehicle 
wasnt financed under this agreement and its only that Im considering here. That means I 
havent been able to consider refunding any costs Mr A incurred as a result of the faults with 
the first car.
Putting things right
VWFS should end the finance agreement. Theyll need to collect the car at no cost to Mr A 
and they should refund his deposit, adding interest as Mr A has been deprived of that 
money.
Theyll also need to refund the £79 Mr A had to pay to emergency breakdown services when 
he was stopped by the police over concerns the car was sidewinding, and the cost of the 
most recent independent inspection Mr A had to commission to demonstrate the persistent 
faults. Neither of those costs would have been incurred if the car was of satisfactory quality. 
VWFS will need to add interest to those refunds as well as Mr A has been deprived of the 
money.
Ive considered whether Mr A has experienced any loss of use as a result of these issues. 
There was clearly a need to return the car to the dealership on occasion to have the fault 
looked at, but I think that, and any distress and inconvenience, has been covered by VWFS 
awarding Mr A some compensation already. Thereafter, I can see that Mr A managed to 
complete over 20,000 miles in the car in just over two years. Thats about average mileage 
so I dont think it would be fair to say that Mr As use of the car has been less than it would 
have been without the problems hes experienced.
But I do think his enjoyment of the car would have been impacted. I understand Mr A isnt 
happy with the investigators suggestion VWFS refund 10% of finance instalments in respect 
of the loss of enjoyment Mr A has experienced. But I think 10% from the point at which the 
fault was reported is fair in the circumstances, and Im not asking VWFS to pay any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr A.
Refund any deposit paid and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Refund 10% of all finance instalments paid since March 2020 in respect of the loss of 
enjoyment Mr A has experienced. Add 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
Remove any negative reports they may have made to Mr As credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Refund the £79 Mr A paid for the emergency breakdown service and the cost of his 
independent inspection. Add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman