DRN-3290245
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) failed to provide him with 
sufficient information about the performance of his investments. He also complains about 
how RBS handled his concerns.
What happened
Mr A held units in a Managed Growth Fund (the fund) with RBS. He was buying units with 
monthly payments of £350 and he was sent six-monthly statements. The October 2019 
statement showed the total value of Mr As investments were £23,162.
In April 2020 RBS sent a general market volatility mailing to investors. This explained what 
impact the Covid-19 pandemic was having on investment markets and the fund value. Mr A 
received a statement shortly after this and his investments were now valued at £22,769.
On 15 April 2020 Mr A contacted RBS and was told the value of his investments were 
£22,340 as of the last valuation point of 9 April 2020. Mr A instructed RBS to sell his units 
and received a total of £22,219. 
Mr A complained to RBS. He said that he wouldve expected more communication prior to 
the fall in value particularly as the Covid-19 situation had been ongoing since the end of 
2019. But RBS rejected Mr As complaint saying the value he was given for his investments 
as of the last valuation point, was for guidance purposes only. 
Mr A responded saying that RBS had misunderstood his complaint which was about its poor 
communication for the six months between October 2019 and April 2020. Mr A considered 
the complaint handler had misunderstood his complaint or simply hadnt been interested in 
getting to the bottom of it. Mr A said he thought that RBS should train its staff on how to deal 
with people from diverse backgrounds.
RBS said it was satisfied its investigations had been conducted correctly and without any 
bias on its part. In terms of what information it should have sent to Mr A, RBS said the 
performance of the fund from the beginning of November 2019 to the end of February 2020, 
had, in fact, shown a gradual increase in value. It noted this trend stopped at the end of 
February 2020 due to the markets response to the Covid-19 situation. And in March 2020 it 
sent a mailing to investors to give context to the fall in value of the fund. So, RBS was 
satisfied it had acted correctly.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding Mr As complaint. He didnt think RBS had 
treated Mr A differently or misunderstood him on the basis that it had been biased. He also 
thought that RBSs level of communication with Mr A was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Mr A disagreed. He reiterated his frustration about his complaint not being dealt with 
correctly. Mr A said that he thinks that RBS didnt take the time to understand his concerns 
because of his background and because of this it didnt give him a fair hearing when dealing 
with his complaint. So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance, I think Mr A hasnt been treated unfairly or unreasonably by 
RBS. Before I explain my reasoning, I think its important for me to recognise the strength of 
feeling Mr A has about this matter. However, the purpose of my decision isnt to address 
every single point raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by him and the 
business, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on 
the facts of the case.
Its clear that the price that Mr A received for his shares during the call on 15 April 2020 was 
for information only. The agent clearly explained that this was the price at the last valuation 
point which was on 9 April. The agent also explained during this call that Mr A would receive 
the price for the majority of his investments as valued at 11pm on 15 April 2020. In fact, I can 
hear that when Mr A asked for an exact price for his investments, he was told it wasnt 
possible to give this figure.
I note that what the agent said reflects what Mr A was told in the terms and conditions where 
it says: All our funds are valued at 11pm every Business Day. I should also note that there 
was £350 that hadnt yet been settled so the price for this amount was settled on a different 
day. But I can hear that this was all explained to Mr A during the call with the RBS agent. 
Overall, I think the information provided to Mr A during the call on 15 April 2020 and in the 
terms and conditions was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ill turn now to Mr As main complaint about the communication he received after the 
statement dated 31 October 2019. In terms of what Mr A should have been told about the 
value of his investments the terms and conditions say (bold emphasis by RBS):
How can I see how my investment is performing?
Youll receive a statement twice every year showing transactions throughout the 
period and a recent valuation of your investment. You can get a valuation of your 
investment by calling [RBS helpline number]. The prices of Shares will be 
available on [two website addresses listed]
I can see that Mr A initially called RBS on 15 April 2020 to obtain a valuation of his 
investments. So, he was clearly aware of the option to obtain a valuation at any point.
As Mr A was provided with an execution only account, the onus was on him to monitor how 
his investments were performing. I appreciate he was busy during this time for 
understandable reasons. But I dont think RBS needed to take any further steps to notify him 
of the fluctuations in the unit price beyond what it had done. Further, the impact that the 
Covid-19 situation was having on financial markets was readily accessible from many 
publicly available sources.
In any event, the value of Mr As investment did increase between 1 November 2019 to the 
end of February 2020. It was at the end of February 2020 that the unit price of Mr As 
investment began to decrease. And in April 2020 RBS sent its mailings to investors letting 
them know about the impact the Covid-19 pandemic was having on the value of their 
investments. Overall, I think RBS has acted reasonably and fairly in terms of keeping Mr A 
informed about significant matters affecting the value of his investments.Mr A says he feels RBS has discriminated against him given it failed to properly address his 
concerns in its first response to him. He says RBS completely misunderstood his complaint 
and that he believes this happened because the RBS agent didnt take the time to 
understand what he was saying or care about what he was saying. He mentions, amongst 
other things, that this might be because of his (Mr As) accent or a lack of concern or 
interest for someone from another background. Mr A says he thinks RBS should do more to 
make sure they take the time and effort to understand people from all different backgrounds.
I can understand why Mr A feels the way he does. RBS could and should have done a better 
job of understanding Mr As complaint  it misunderstood what he was complaining about 
and could have shown it cared more. But having looked at all the evidence, I dont think this 
was because RBS had any problems understanding what Mr A was saying. Ive listened to 
the calls between Mr A and RBS and Im satisfied his accent wasnt an issue as Mr A was 
easy to understand. Nor do I think his background was a factor  Ive seen no evidence to 
show it was.
So I dont think RBS has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the way Mr A feels it had done. I 
hope that it helps Mr A to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his 
concerns and taken the time to ensure that what he has complained about is actually 
addressed.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman