DRN-4121286
The complaint
Ms A complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked her account card whilst abroad.
What happened
Ms A was abroad in March 2022 and says she tried to use her Nationwide account card to 
make purchases. She says the card was blocked and spoke to Nationwide. Ms A says the 
block was removed but then reapplied on a number of occasions causing her to make further 
calls to Nationwide before using an alternative credit card which incurred a foreign 
transaction fee of just over £40. She would like compensation for that fee and says she 
spent some time on calls to Nationwide whilst on holiday.
Nationwide says it acted in line with account terms and conditions when it had security 
concerns. It says the type of concerns it had meant it could not call Ms A but required her to 
make contact with it.
Ms A brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide had security concerns and was entitled to block the account.
Ms A doesnt accept that view and questions why the block kept being applied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms A will be disappointed by my decision.
I am sure Ms A appreciates that fraud is a major problem for banks and building societies 
and they must have measures in place to protect its money and its customers money. I 
accept that on occasions that legitimate customers and transactions can be affected by anti-
fraud measures such as here. And that such measures inevitably cause legitimate 
customers inconvenience but that doesnt mean a mistake has been made.
I have looked carefully at Ms As account terms and conditions which I think she would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Nationwide may refuse a transaction if it has security concerns. Having looked at 
Nationwides records from March 2022, Im satisfied that it had security and fraud concerns 
about Ms As attempted card use and that the type of concerns meant it couldnt contact her 
directly. So, I dont think Nationwide made a mistake or acted unfairly by blocking the 
transactions and dont think it matters that the problem continued for more than one 
attempted purchase as each attempted purchase is considered individually. Im also satisfied 
that Nationwide has acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
I appreciate Ms A was caused inconvenience in making the calls to Nationwide and used an 
alternative credit card. But that doesnt mean Nationwide has made a mistake or that I can 
fairly order it to pay compensation for the foreign transaction fee, as its clear from the terms 
and conditions that a transaction use is not guaranteed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman