DRN-3329323
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that the Insurance Factory Ltd, trading as Equesure (Equesure) 
requested a further payment from her for her horse insurance after shed cancelled her 
policy.
What happened
At the end of 2020, Mrs P renewed the horse insurance policy shed bought through 
Equesure.  The policy had options to purchase the policy with a single payment, or to pay by 
monthly instalments using a finance option provided by a bank.  Mrs P chose to pay monthly.
Mrs P made claims during the policy term, which were settled.  She then decided to cancel 
the policy before the end of the term.
Mrs P says that she was initially told that shed receive a premium refund.  She then 
received an email telling her that was wrong, and no refund was due.  Mrs P was happy with 
this as shed not expected to receive any refund.  But she then received a letter telling her 
she owed £160.62 for outstanding premiums.
Mrs P queried this with Equesure.  Equesure told her that, because shed made claims on 
the policy, the whole of the annual premium was due.  Mrs P complained, as she felt this 
hadnt been made clear to her when she renewed or when she cancelled.
Equesure investigated but didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint.  They said the terms relating to 
cancellation clearly state a policyholder is not entitled to any premium refund if they have 
made a claim.  And that paying monthly is to make buying the policy more affordable; it isnt 
buying a months cover each time a payment is made.
Mrs P wasnt satisfied with Equesures response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Equesure didnt need to do anything more to 
resolve the complaint.  
She said Equesures Terms of Business Agreement (TOBA) is clear that no premium 
would be refunded if a claim had been made.  And premium is the whole amount due.  And 
she said that, in making claims, Mrs P had received the benefits of the policy  so she 
couldnt say it was unfair for Equesure to charge the full premium.
In response to the investigator, Mrs P said the TOBA wasnt clear  which is supported by 
the fact that she was sent a newer version when she cancelled.  And she said other policies 
shed held had allowed her to cancel during the policy term without being liable to pay the full 
premium.  She says if shed known the balance of the premium was due, she wouldnt have 
cancelled.
Because Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators view, Ive been asked to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the documentation Mrs P was sent when the policy was due to be renewed. 
The policy document includes a number of definitions, including one for policy term.  The 
definition sets out three alternatives:
Yearly - runs for 365 days from the commencement date/time shown on Your policy 
schedule; automatically renews annually.
Lunar Monthly - runs for and premiums are collected on equal periods of 28 days; 
automatically renews every 28 days.
Calendar Monthly - runs for and premiums are collected each calendar month; automatically 
renews every calendar month.
Ive seen the policy was sold on a non-advised basis  which means it was up to Mrs P to 
decide if it met her needs.  And it was up to Equesure to ensure the information Mrs P had to 
make that decision is clear, fair, and not misleading.
I think Equesure did that.  The policy schedule clearly states Mrs Ps policy is an annual one, 
which automatically renews each year.  And the premium is also stated annually.  Further, 
Equesure sent a separate confirmation of the policy price  including the interest charge 
applicable because shed opted to pay monthly.  So I think it was clear Mrs P bought an 
annual policy.  And that means the cancellation terms applicable in her case are the terms 
relating to cancelling an annual policy.
Ive thought about whether Equesure provided Mrs P with clear information about the terms 
which would apply if she cancelled the policy. Mrs P doesnt think they did, because she 
says the TOBA isnt clear.  
The TOBA says: 
You have the right to cancel your policy at any time during the policy term, however, 
calculations of any refunds or charges due will depend on the terms and conditions of the 
policy and will be detailed to you upon cancellation.
Im satisfied its clear from that the policyholder needs to refer to the policy document.  And 
that there may be payments due if the policy is cancelled.
In that, under the heading Other Cancellation Costs, it says:
Practices vary between insurers with regard to premium refunds on cancellation, so please 
refer to your policy documentation to find out what premium, if any, is refundable.  Generally 
no premium will be refunded if a claim has been made.
And under Cancellation Rights it says:
If You have an annual policy and have not made a claim, a return of premium will be issued 
in accordance with Our cancellation rates, as follows:
[table of percentage discounts]
If You have made a claim, You will not be entitled to any refund.
Again, I think thats clear.  And that means Im satisfied Equesure provided Mrs P with 
information about what would happen should she decide to cancel the policy.Mrs P has said it wasnt made clear to her that shed have to pay the balance of the annual 
premium and if shed known this, she may not have cancelled.  And shes said shes had 
insurance with other providers in the past where shes been able to cancel without payment.
Ive thought about this.  Im only deciding if Equesure have treated Mrs P fairly.  So I cant 
take into account how other businesses may deal with this situation. 
And, while I understand it would have been useful to Mrs P to be told about the outstanding 
amount during the call she made to cancel the policy, I dont think its fair for me to say 
Equesure did something wrong by not providing that.  It wasnt Equesure who fixed the price 
 it was the underwriter.  
So I think it was reasonable for Equesure to wait for the underwriter to confirm figures before 
letting Mrs P know what was outstanding.  And for them to rely on the information theyd 
previously given her that, if she chose to cancel, shed need to pay the outstanding balance.  
And for that reason I dont think they need to do any more to resolve her complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint about the Insurance 
Factory Ltd, trading as Equesure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman