DRN-2245623
The complaint
Mr P complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited wrongly avoided his motorbike 
insurance policy and retained the premium for it. 
What happened
Mr P took a policy out with MCE on 15 March 2020, having completed the application on a 
comparison website. Mr P says that when he completed the form, he said he had a full 
driving licence for a bike, as that was what he was hoping to get when he passed his 
upcoming test. Mr P said he also ticked a box on the same page to declare that he didnt yet 
have a full licence. He says he only wanted insurance to cover the bike against loss by fire 
and theft whilst it was stored in his garage until he was able to ride it. 
The details that transferred to MCE from the website were that Mr P had a full licence which 
started on the day he applied for insurance. MCE sent Mr P the policy documents, but he 
didnt check them until around two months later. When he noted that the policy said he had a 
full licence, Mr P called MCE to point out that was wrong. MCE told him that that it would be 
avoiding the policy and retaining his premium. It said wouldnt have offered Mr P cover had it 
known the facts and that hed misrepresented the situation deliberately or recklessly. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ps complaint. He said the data hed seen from the 
comparison website showed that Mr P had said he held a full licence. The investigator 
thought the question Mr P was asked about his licence online was clear, and so in his view 
Mr P didnt take reasonable care in answering it. 
The investigator said Mr P could have corrected the errors in the policy documents when 
they were sent to him. And he thought MCE had shown that it wouldnt have offered cover to 
Mr P had it known the true facts. He said Mr P had made a qualifying misrepresentation 
under the relevant law. That meant MCE could retain his premium if it could show hed acted 
deliberately or recklessly. But he didnt think MCE had done that. He said he thought Mr P 
had only acted carelessly, otherwise he wouldnt have told MCE about the error.
  
MCE said it had sent an email to Mr P a week after the policy started about garaging, and 
that the email also pointed out that the policy wouldnt cover any claims if someone named 
on the policy didnt have a valid licence. MCE was able to show that Mr P had opened the 
email on that date. The investigator still thought Mr P didnt realise hed misrepresented the 
facts. He said MCE should return Mr Ps premiums back to the date of the avoidance. As 
there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations 
Act) 2012 (CIDRA). It says a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy. The standard of care is that of a 
reasonable consumer.
If a consumer doesnt do this, CIDRA says the insurer can take certain action, as long as the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying one. It will be a qualifying 
misrepresentation if the insurer can show that it would only have offered the policy to the 
consumer on different terms  or not at all - if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or just careless. If it was deliberate or reckless 
- and the insurer can show that it would at least only have offered the policy on different 
terms  its entitled to avoid the policy and not deal with any claims under it. But if the 
qualifying misrepresentation was only careless, then to avoid the policy the insurer must 
show that it wouldnt have offered the policy at all but for the misrepresentation.
In this case, Mr P was asked what type of motorcycle licence he had, and he said it was a 
full licence, although that wasnt correct at the time. I think that was a clear question. An 
option further down the page was to answer the question Licence not obtained yet?. 
Although Mr P told us he answered No to this question, it seems that because hed already 
said he had a full licence, that was the information that transferred to MCE. Weve checked, 
and if the answer given to licence not obtained yet? is no, then the rest of the boxes on the 
page cant be completed. That didnt happen to Mr P, as hed already said he had a full 
licence. 
  
I dont think Mr P took reasonable care in answering the clear question about the type of 
licence he held. I dont think most consumers would share his view that it was correct to say 
he had a full licence on the basis that he intended to have one at a future date, once hed 
passed his test. And I think the second question should have alerted Mr P to the fact that 
there was a problem. Hed already said he had a full licence  but responding correctly to the 
second question was actually the right option for him. If Mr P was confused, I think he could 
have called MCE for guidance. Instead he assumed his two contradictory answers would 
somehow convey his situation to MCE.
MCE has shown that Mr P could still have corrected the situation, as he could have checked 
the policy details when he was re-directed to MCEs website. And it sent him the policy 
documents shortly afterwards. It also sent him the garaging email, which highlighted 
important policy details, on 22 March 2020. Under the heading Licencing it said consumers 
must check that they have the correct licence, as the policy doesnt cover anyone who 
doesnt have a valid one. MCE can show that Mr P opened the email that day at 3.58 pm but 
took no further action. 
 
Unfortunately, Mr P didnt look at the policy documents until the policy had been in place for 
two months. Theres always a risk that details on a policy may have been recorded 
incorrectly, either because a consumer gave the wrong information or because the insurer 
made an error. So we think its fair to expect consumers to take reasonable care to ensure 
the policy details are correct. In this case, had Mr P done that within the 14-day cooling-off 
period, the policy could simply have been cancelled.
MCE has provided a statement from an underwriter which confirms that MCE wouldnt have 
offered cover to Mr P on any terms had it known he didnt have a full licence, given the size 
of the bikes engine. So I think it has shown that the type of licence he held was important to 
it, which means that Mr P made a qualifying misrepresentation. Whether it was fair for MCE to void the policy (and keep the premium) depends on whether it can show that Mr P acted 
deliberately or recklessly  knowing or not caring whether the information he gave it was true 
and knowing or not caring whether it was relevant or not to MCE.
When Mr P called MCE on 24 May 2020 after finally checking the policy and noting that it 
showed him as holding a full licence, I think he genuinely believed that MCE already knew 
he didnt yet have a full licence. Mr P has shown us a copy of a quote he got from the 
comparison website that shows he said that he didnt have a full licence yet. It isnt clear why 
that information wasnt passed to MCE. But I cant say it was MCEs fault, as the comparison 
website told MCE that Mr P had said he had a full licence. And its also the case that he 
could have corrected the record well before he contacted MCE. 
I dont think MCE has shown that Mr P deliberately or recklessly misrepresented the facts to 
it. If that were the case, and Mr P was trying to get a financial advantage from MCE, I dont 
think he would have brought the error to its attention, and it would have remained unaware 
of it. So I think Mr P only made a careless misrepresentation.
 
In this situation, I think it was reasonable for MCE to avoid the policy, but in my opinion, it 
would be fair for it to return the full premium to him (plus interest from the date he paid it) as 
it would never have covered any claim he made on the policy. We told MCE recently of this 
proposed change to the remedy set out by the investigator. MCE didnt raise any objection.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require MCE Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
refund Mr Ps full premium
add interest to the sum due, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of the 
payment to the date of the settlement   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman