DRN-1619108
The complaint
Mr U1 complains that Alwyn Insurance Company Limited avoided his motor insurance policy 
(treated it as if it never existed) and declined his claim following the theft of his car. Mr U1 is 
represented in this matter by his son, Mr U2.
What happened
Mr U1 made a claim after his car was stolen. Alwyn then found that Mr U1 had provided 
incorrect information when he took out the policy. It said he hadnt told it he used the car for 
work or given full information about his employment. Alwyn also said Mr U1 hadnt told it that 
Mr U2 was the cars registered owner and keeper. It said it wouldnt have offered cover if it 
had known this. So it declined his claim and avoided his policy.
Alwyn said Mr U1 answered the question hed been asked about the cars registered keeper 
incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. 
Mr U1 brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld only in 
part. She agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation about the cars ownership. 
But she didnt think this was deliberate or reckless. She believed it was careless. And, as 
Alwyn wouldnt have offered cover if Mr U1 had given the correct answer, she thought it was 
entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim. But she thought it should refund the 
premiums. 
Mr U2 replied that his father intended to put the car into his name, but he was awaiting the 
outcome of a County Court Judgement (CCJ) before he did this. Alwyn replied that it thought 
the number of discrepancies made by Mr U1 made the misrepresentation deliberate or 
reckless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Alwyn thinks Mr U1 failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered three questions in the online application and then in the sales call. Ive looked at 
the questions he was asked when he took out the policy and agree he failed to take 
reasonable care for two questions. 
Mr U1 was asked what he did for a living, both full time and part time. Alwyn said he only 
gave part information as he didnt explain that he was self-employed. But I disagree as 
Alwyn didnt ask Mr U1 whether he was self-employed. Alwyn also said Mr U1 should have 
disclosed that he also worked as a pastor, but I disagree. This is because this was voluntary 
and unpaid. So Its unrelated to what Mr U1 did for a living. So I dont think Mr U1 
misrepresented what he did for a living. 
Mr U1 was also asked whether he would use the car for work, and he said no. But he later 
said he used the car to drive between work sites. I think this would mean that Mr U1 should 
then have said he used the car for commuting and business purposes. 
Alwyn also asked Mr U1 whether he was the cars registered owner and keeper. Mr U1 said 
he would be once the log book comes. But this was incorrect as Mr U2 was the cars 
registered owner and keeper, as shown on the log book. Mr U2 said hed bought the car, 
and a previous one, as he had good credit whilst Mr U1 didnt. But I havent seen evidence 
that Mr U1 intended to refinance the car and transfer the ownership into his name 
immediately. The car was stolen some four months after the policy was taken out and it was 
still in Mr U2s name. 
Mr U2 said hed sent the V5 log book to Alwyn when the policy was validated, and three 
months before the claim was made. Alwyn agreed he did do this, and it noted that the V5 
had the wrong name on it. It said this wasnt taken further at the time due to an oversight. 
But I dont think this changes the fact that Mr U1 had incorrectly told Alwyn that he would be 
the cars owner and keeper. 
So I think these two latter questions Alwyn asked Mr U1 were clear and hed answered them 
incorrectly. And I think this means Mr U1 failed to take reasonable care not to make 
misrepresentations when he answered them. 
Alwyn has provided evidence from its underwriting guide that if Mr U1 had answered the 
question about his use of the car correctly it would have still offered cover, albeit at a higher 
premium. But its also provided evidence that if Mr U1 had told it that Mr U2 was the cars 
owner and keeper, then it wouldnt have offered cover at all. This means that I am satisfied 
Mr U1s misrepresentations were qualifying ones under CIDRA.
But I dont think Mr U1s misrepresentation about the cars ownership was a reckless or 
deliberate misrepresentation. This is because Mr U1 said he was the cars sole driver and his son had taken out the finance for it due to his CCJ. But I think he should have known 
hed answered the question incorrectly. 
Similarly, Mr U1 should have told Alwyn that he used the car for site visits. But I can 
understand that he thought he was being asked if he used the car to carry his painting 
equipment about. Mr U1s explained that he has another car for this. So I think this too was a 
careless misrepresentation.  
So I think there were two careless misrepresentations. Alwyn said that it had retained the 
premiums, and in effect treated the misrepresentations as reckless or deliberate, due to their 
number. But I cant see that CIDRA allows this. So I dont think its fair for Alwyn to retain the 
premiums.
Putting things right
CIDRA says that in the case of careless misrepresentation Alwyn can then apply the terms it 
would have if the correct answer had been given at the outset. Alwyn has shown it would 
have declined cover due to the incorrect ownership. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Alwyn was entitled to avoid Mr U1s policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Alwyn does not have 
to deal with his claim following the theft of his car, but it should refund the premiums. And, as 
Mr U1 has been without his money for some time, I think Alwyn should reasonably add 
interest to this refund. 
And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Alwyn to rely on it to avoid Mr U1s policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require 
Alwyn Insurance Company Limited to refund Mr U1s premiums for his policy, adding interest 
at the rate of 8% simple from the date of its avoidance of the policy to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman