DRN-3091968
The complaint
Mr L has complained HSBC UK Bank plc wont refund transactions he didnt authorise whilst 
he was abroad.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr L went overseas to attend a conference. Whilst there he made 
arrangements to meet someone. Things didnt turn out as hed planned. He ended up being 
held hostage in an apartment whilst three people used his debit card consistently to empty 
his account.
After his account was mostly emptied, the people whod been threatening him left. Mr L was 
able to get his phone and card back as theyd been left by the individuals whod been with 
him. Mr L realised a considerable sum was missing from his account. He reported this to 
HSBC as soon as he got free.
HSBC wouldnt refund him. They pointed out theyd blocked his card and hed called them to 
ensure it was released to enable the subsequent disputed use. They also believed there 
were inconsistencies in his story and doubted the trauma of what hed gone through.
Mr L brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt that Mr L hadnt authorised the transactions but in providing his debit 
card as well as security details and allowing the unknown parties to access his current 
account, hed been aware of what he was doing. She believed this amounted to intent or 
gross negligence under the Payment Services Regulations.
Mr L didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. HSBC has made an 
offer to refund half of Mr Ls losses. Ive made Mr L aware of this offer and explained why I 
believe it is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of his complaint. Mr L has been 
unclear about whether hes accepted this or not. Ive told him on a couple of occasions that I 
would be confirming this in my final decision.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ls complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but nothing that I believe is 
specifically relevant in Mr Ls case.
In addition to whats provided under the PSRs, the starting position in law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make 
without undue delay, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
And taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Having carefully considered all of this, I got in touch with HSBC to question whether there 
werent reasonable grounds for the bank to suspect the unusual nature of the transactions 
on Mr Ls account. 
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by HSBC and Mr L. 
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 21 September 2021 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. Im also not going to run through the disputed 
transactions as there doesnt seem to be any dispute about these.
I should state upfront that Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr Ls account of what happened 
shouldnt be believed. I confirmed this to HSBC. Whilst there are some inconsistencies, I 
dont think those alone place doubt on the overall story. Mr Ls subsequent actions in 
December 2019 and what hes done since in following up what happened all seem to 
confirm the overall veracity.
However by Mr Ls own testimony I believe he authorised these transactions. Although he 
was under duress, he provided his card and PIN to the people he was with. He made the 
mobile payment of £4,000. He also called HSBC to ask for his card to be unblocked after the 
unknown parties had found continual use at cash machines led to it being blocked and limits 
being exceeded.
The PSRs dont allow for much nuance. Theres no provision which says authorisation under 
duress doesnt mean authorisation at all. I appreciate why Mr L believes this should be the 
case but it isnt.
However in looking at the transaction themselves, I believe HSBC could have taken further 
action. Ive reviewed Mr Ls current account. Over a prolonged period, he was building up 
the cash within this account. Hes told us that he was saving for a mortgage. I know from what hes told us over the time his case has been with our service that hes subsequently 
applied for a mortgage. By the time Mr L went to the conference in December 2019, there 
was more than £29,000 in his account and thered been limited spending over the previous 
few years. 
Then within 15 hours there were numerous uses of Mr Ls debit card. A number of these 
attempts were declined. But after this there were five large-value transactions using the debit 
card for £2,220, £4,440, £4,740, £4,530 and £3,220. These all took place in high-risk retail 
outlets and I was concerned HSBC had made no attempt to intervene.
I offered HSBC the opportunity to review the decision theyd made about what had 
happened to Mr L. They offered to refund half of Mr Ls losses  £12,665,59  as a gesture 
of goodwill.
Having reviewed the disputed transactions and HSBCs offer, I believe this is fair and 
reasonable and offers Mr L a refund that is similar to what Id recommend.
Putting things right
Ive already confirmed to Mr L that HSBC has offered to refund him £12,665.59 as a way of 
resolving his complaint. Mr L has been unclear in his responses to our service why hes not 
accepting this.
I have told him on more than one occasion that I would be confirming HSBCs offer as a fair 
and reasonable resolution to his complaint. Hes not provided any response for me to 
consider further.
Im satisfied HSBCs offer is a fair and reasonable resolution.
Ive also made it clear to Mr L that my final decision marks the end of our services 
involvement in his complaint. Other than if he contacts us to accept this decision, I will not be 
responding to any other issues similar to those he has raised more recently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct HSBC UK Bank plc to pay Mr L 
£12,665,59.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman