DRN-3797594
The complaint
Mr C complains that, during renewal of his car insurance policy, Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited trading as Hastings Direct (Hastings) didnt take into account a claim on his policy, 
and when this was applied later it led to an increase in his premium. 
What happened
In August 2021, Hastings, acting as broker, sent renewal documents to Mr C for his car 
insurance policy, in advance of the renewal start date of 2 September. The premium was 
£452.06 broken down as an initial payment of £37.69 followed by 11 monthly payments of 
£37.67. Mr C was then involved in an accident on 31 August which he reported the following 
day, and his policy then renewed on 2 September. Then on 30 March 2022, the August 2021 
claim was added to Mr Cs policy which led to an additional premium of £307.78 needing to 
be paid. This increased Mr Cs monthly payments to one of £99.21 followed by four at 
£99.23. Mr C complained to Hastings in August 2022 when he noticed his monthly payments 
had increased and explained he wouldnt have gone ahead with the renewal had Hastings 
added the claim in a timely manner. Hastings responded and offered £180 compensation 
which they said represents seven months worth of the additional premium.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C. He thought Hastings offer of £180 was fair.     
Mr C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Hastings offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand  
Mr C will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision
Hastings say the accident in August 2021 occurred after the renewal had been confirmed. 
They say they repaired Mr Cs car and the claim was closed on 29 March 2022 as non-fault 
and an email was sent to Mr C confirming this. They say on 30 March the claim flagged on 
their late registered claim report as the claim hadnt been declared on Mr Cs policy. 
Hastings say the claim was then added to the policy and backdated to the policy start date. 
This led to the premium being increased by £307.78 and they wrote to Mr C on 30 March 
2022 to confirm the policy amendment and they spread the additional premium across the 
remaining monthly instalments. 
Theres no dispute about Mr C receiving the email on 30 March 2022 letting him know his 
policy had been updated. The email asks Mr C to log into his account where hell find a more 
detailed message. Hastings had uploaded a document saying the change in claim history 
had led to an increase in the premium of £307.78 together with an amended payment 
schedule showing this amount had been spread across the remaining monthly instalments 
which were due and the new monthly Direct Debits which would be taken. I note Mr C says, 
given the email he received the day before, he assumed the 30 March email related to the 
claim settlement. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. The key facts 
about the complaint arent in dispute. Hastings accept they got things wrong by taking seven 
months to apply the changes to Mr Cs policy. The only issue I have to decide is whether 
their offer of £180 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that Hastings should compensate Mr C for the upset and frustration caused. 
To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation should be, Ive looked at 
the error by Hastings and the impact it has had. 
Hastings say the claim in August 2021 was logged on 1 September 2021. They say theres 
an automated process which brings claim information across and, while the timescale for this 
can vary, seven months was too long. Ive listened to call recordings between Mr C and 
Hastings and its clear hes very upset and frustrated at the additional premium being added. 
Mr C feels its unfair for Hastings to quote a premium and allow him to pay seven monthly 
payments towards that agreed premium before adding an additional premium for a claim 
which they were told about before the start of the renewal period.  
 
I think its important to add premiums are calculated by an insurer based on the risk theyre 
prepared to accept. Generally, insurers are allowed to set the premium that they wish to 
charge for accepting a certain risk. When calculating insurance premiums insurers will take a 
number of factors into consideration; for example  any claims history. All these factors will 
affect the price of a consumers policy. An insurer will decide what factors to take into 
account and how much weight to put on each of them. In this case, the insurer has taken 
into account the August 2021 claim and this has led to an increased premium. That said, I 
agree Mr C was left shocked when he discovered Hastings had only taken action to process 
the August 2021 claim against his policy seven months after his policy renewed. 
I note Mr C says, had the additional premium been added at the time of renewal, he 
wouldve looked around for other policies and mightve declined Hastings renewal quote. I 
do understand why Mr C feels there has been a missed opportunity for him to make an 
informed decision on whether to agree to a renewal quote which has ended up costing 
£759.84. While I note Hastings say they cant be certain when the automated process 
wouldve pulled through the claim information, I havent seen any information to suggest its 
unreasonable to expect this mightve been prior to the 14-day cooling off period. The 
renewal letter asks Mr C to contact Hastings within 14 days of renewal if he doesnt wish to 
renew. The letter also says, in most cases, Hastings wont charge for cancelling the policy. 
That being the case, had Hastings applied the changes within the cooling off period, it 
wouldve given Mr C the option to cancel and potentially avoid any charges. 
I accept therefore that Mr C couldve cancelled and avoided paying the additional premium. 
But, Ive seen no evidence that Mr C wouldve found another policy cheaper than the amount 
he ended up paying. In addition to this, Mr C has had the benefit of the policy for the full year 
so I cant say its reasonable to expect Hastings to refund the additional £307.78 charged to 
Mr C.  
   
I think its also important to take into account that Hastings say, had Mr C contacted them in 
March 2022  when they sent the updated policy details  they wouldve been able to 
discuss cancellation had Mr C not wanted to continue with the policy. Mr C says he didnt 
check his bank account at the time due to personal circumstances, so he didnt notice his 
monthly payments had increased since April 2022. Hastings say the onus is on the 
policyholder to read their documents and check all details are correct. The information 
shows Hastings did notify Mr C about the additional premium and, taking into account 
Hastings comments, I think there was an opportunity for Mr C to cancel the policy to avoid paying all of the additional premium. I do acknowledge Mr Cs reasons for not noticing this at 
the time and also understand he wouldnt have been expecting such a communication seven 
months after his policy renewed. So, while I have taken into account the points made by    
Mr C, I cant ignore the fact that Hastings did notify him of the increase in premium. 
So, taking this all into account, I think there has been shock, upset and frustration caused to 
Mr C when he noticed his premium had increased. There has been a missed opportunity for 
Mr C to look elsewhere for a cheaper policy around the time the renewal period started, but I 
cant conclude there was one available. I cant say Mr C missed every opportunity to cancel 
as Hastings did notify Mr C of the additional premium. This was paid over five months so 
there was an opportunity for Mr C to cancel the policy. I do however acknowledge why Mr C 
wouldnt have been expecting his premium to have increased seven months after he 
renewed. So, taking into consideration the impact on Mr C, I think Hastings offer of £180 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
I understand Mr C will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why he was left frustrated at 
the length of time it took for Hastings to update the policy. I wish to reassure Mr C Ive read 
and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct has already made an offer to 
pay £180 compensation to Mr C to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct 
should pay Mr C £180, if they havent done so already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman