DRN-3283018
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as C, complains about a fixed rate commercial loan. The 
partners say that Lloyds Bank PLC gave misleading information at the time the loan was 
agreed and unfairly charged a break cost when part of the loan was repaid.
What happened
In March 2012, C took out a £1m commercial loan, due to expire in 2029. The interest rate 
was fixed until February 2025. 
In December 2019, C made a partial capital repayment of £300,000. Lloyds charged a break 
cost of £27,833 because the repayment was made before the end of the fixed rate period. 
The partners complained that the charge was unfair. In March 2020 Lloyds offered to settle 
the complaint by putting C in the position it would have been in if the fixed rate on the entire 
loan had been terminated on the date of the complaint with a break cost reduced to 6% of 
the outstanding balance.
The partners werent satisfied with Lloyds offer and referred the complaint to us. They 
wanted the bank to refund all the break costs paid and to put the loan on a variable rate, with 
no threat of future break costs. The partners said that at the time the loan was agreed, the 
bank had given misleading information about the likelihood and potential scale of break 
costs, and had led them to believe that the risk was linked to the Bank of England base rate. 
Having looked at the evidence, our investigator concluded that Lloyds had provided 
reasonable information for the partners to make an informed decision. He didnt think the 
bank needed to do anything further. He gave the following reasons, in summary:
There were discussions during 2011 and 2012 about various loan options. The bank 
provided a number of quotations and product profiles, which included information 
about possible break costs.
The investigator considered whether Lloyds had provided clear, fair, and not 
misleading information about the type of loan it was offering, so that the partners 
could decide what was appropriate for their circumstances. He looked at the 
information and illustrations that the bank provided alongside three quotes  in May 
2011, October 2011 and March 2012. 
In the information provided, Lloyds explained that the loan could be repaid early but 
break costs could be substantial and would depend on market conditions. Various 
break cost illustrations were provided. For a loan of £1m, the highest break cost 
shown in an illustration was £247,000. The October 2011 quote included an 
illustration showing a £1m fixed rate loan ending five years before maturity could 
result in break costs of £94,000  which in percentage terms was equivalent to the 
break costs actually charged in 2019. At the time of the 2011 quote there was an 
email exchange between the parties about break costs. 
Lloyds explained the factors which affected the size of the break costs  it said they 
are influenced by whether there is an increasing or decreasing interest rate 
environment, the movement of interest rates since the loan was agreed, and the 
length of time remaining to maturity. The investigator couldnt see that that Lloyds 
stated that the break costs were linked specifically to the Bank of England base rate. 
The cost illustrations referred to a fixed rate or to the cost of funds, and they ranged 
from 3% to 5%. These figures were much higher than the Bank of England base rate, 
which at the time was 0.5%.
The loan agreement, signed by both parties, said that if the loan is repaid early there 
will be a break cost, which replaces what Lloyds would have received from the early 
repayment date to maturity of the fixed rate, if this exceeded the interest that Lloyds 
could have obtained by placing the same amount in the London interbank market for 
the same period.
C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. The partners made the following points, in 
summary:
Lloyds repeatedly downplayed the level of the break cost risk. In particular, at a face-
to-face meeting in February 2012, the partners were told there would be significant 
break costs only if the base rate falls below 0.5%. The partners were not encouraged 
to examine too closely the illustrations and documents relating to the possible break 
costs.
Before February 2012, the partners had been considering borrowing with 50% on a 
fixed rate over ten years. One might ask what would have persuaded them to change 
their preference to 100% fixed over a longer period.
The banks illustrations lacked clarity. There was no clear explanation of how the cost 
of funds would be calculated when determining the break cost liability. The partners 
were not aware that the cost of funds could vary significantly based on other factors 
independently of the Bank of England base rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, I too have reached the conclusion that the bank provided sufficient 
information at the time of the loan agreement. 
Ive looked carefully at all the documents from the sale of the loan and from the quotes given 
in the period leading up to it. For the same reasons given by the investigator, I find that the 
information given by the bank was enough for the partners to make an informed choice 
about whether to proceed with the loan.
The partners say that at the meeting in February 2012, the bank representatives led them to 
believe there was little chance of C becoming liable for break costs. But there is no written 
record of what was said at that meeting and I need to balance the partners recollection 
against the available documentary evidence. I find that the bank repeatedly provided written 
information about the risks of fixed rate loans, warning that they carried the potential for 
substantial break costs, the level of which would be determined partly by market factors. 
Looking across all the evidence, I cant reasonably say that the bank misled or misinformed 
the partners.I accept that the partners increased the amount and duration of the loan covered by the fixed 
rate. But after the passage of nearly eight years between the lending and the complaint, and 
given the other available evidence, I cant reasonably infer that the partners decision was 
the result of the bank telling them to ignore its own risk warnings. I note that the bank 
repeated those warnings in the loan documents issued shortly after the meeting. 
The partners say the banks break cost warnings didnt explain precisely how the cost of 
funds would be calculated. But the bank did explain that the break cost would be equivalent 
to the interest the bank would have received during the rest of the fixed rate contract, minus 
the amount the bank could obtain during that period by lending it to another bank in the 
London interbank market. It didnt mention the Bank of England base rate. Lloyds gave 
examples of the very large sums that could be involved.
I realise that the partners will be disappointed by my decision and I understand the strength 
of their feelings about their complaint. But after considering all the evidence, I find that the 
bank gave them enough information about the likelihood and potential scale of break costs.
Lloyds offered to put the partners in the position they would have been in if the fixed rate on 
the entire loan had been terminated at the date of the complaint with a break cost reduced to 
6% of the outstanding balance, in line with an illustration given in the product profile supplied 
in 2012. The bank has said this offer remains open to the customers. The partners should 
contact Lloyds directly if they now wish to accept the offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything to settle this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman