DRN-4281040
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited didnt do more to protect him from a scam.
Background
In late-2022, Mr G was looking for work. Hed recently arrived in the UK and had submitted 
his details to several recruitment agencies. He received a phone call asking whether hed be 
interested in an opportunity for a role that was entirely carried out at home. Unfortunately, 
that call hadnt come from a genuine recruitment agency but a fraudster. 
His job was to work on a platform maintained by the client. He could earn commissions by 
completing simple marketing tasks designed to boost perceived demand for that companys 
products. However, he needed to pay to participate in the scheme. In total, he transferred a 
little over £15,000 to do so. He was told that, once he completed a pre-determined number 
of tasks, he would be able to withdraw his commission payments. I understand he was paid 
a small return of £40 early on to persuade him that the platform was legitimate. 
Once he realised hed fallen victim to a scam, he notified Wise. It didnt agree to refund him. 
It argued that the transactions werent out of character when considered alongside legitimate 
payments made from his account. 
Mr G was unhappy with the response he received from Wise and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. They said 
that there were multiple payments made in connection with the scam. The earliest payments 
were quite small and wouldnt have appeared unusual or out of character. However, on 5 
November, Mr G made a payment for £4,393. This was the eighth payment made in 
connection with the scam and the largest so far.
In the Investigators view, this payment marked the point at which an obvious pattern had 
crystallised. Wise shouldve recognised the fraud risk and stepped in. If it had done so, it 
was likely the scam wouldve been uncovered. The Investigator also considered whether 
Mr G could be considered partially responsible for his own losses. She noted that Mr G was 
new to the UK and actively looking for work and so he wouldve expected to receive a call 
from a recruiter. She also pointed out that Mr G was able to withdraw £40 early in the scam 
which wouldve helped to persuade him it was genuine. 
She recommended Wise refund Mr Gs losses from that point onwards and include interest. 
Wise disagreed with the Investigators view. It didnt accept that it shouldve treated this 
particular payment as unusual or out of character. As Wise disagreed with the Investigators 
view, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr G will generally be considered liable for a transaction that 
hes authorised. Its common ground that these payments were authorised and so Mr G is 
presumed liable for them at first instance. However, good industry practice required that 
Wise be on the lookout for account activity that might have been indicative of a fraud risk. On 
identifying a payment that was out of character or unusual to the extent that it might have 
posed such a risk, it ought to intervene in a manner proportionate to that risk. That might 
involve pausing the payment and speaking to the customer first to satisfy itself that theyre 
not at risk of financial harm due to fraud.
In this case, the Investigator thought that the eighth payment was out of character and 
required an intervention from Wise of some kind. I agree with that conclusion. The data Wise 
has shared with us showing the activity on Mr Gs account suggest that this was the largest 
payment hed made on the account. It was the fifth payment made that day and the fourth 
payee.  This pattern of payments was indicative of one of a number of potential scam types 
and I think Wise ought to have been concerned by it.
It shouldnt have processed the payment for £4,393 without first contacting Mr G to ensure 
that he wasnt at risk of fraud. If it had done so, I think its likely that Mr G wouldve explained 
the arrangement he believed hed come to with his employer. At that point, Wise ought to 
have recognised that hed certainly fallen victim to a scam and couldve given him a very 
clear warning about the risks.
Ive also considered whether Mr G can fairly be considered partially responsible for his own 
losses. In doing so, Ive taken into consideration what the law says about contributory 
negligence but also kept in mind that I must decide this case based on what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The Investigator thought Mr G acted reasonably 
in the circumstances. I wasnt convinced. I contacted his representatives and explained my 
view:
My fundamental concern is that [he] shouldve been concerned by the inverted 
relationship between him and his alleged employer  he was expected to pay them 
significant sums when he must have been expecting to be paid himself. Im surprised 
that [he] didnt find this unusual or think to question it. My instinct, therefore, is that 
Wise should be free to make a deduction from the redress payable to him. 
Mr Gs representatives explained that:
- He was looking for remote work to earn a supplementary income and had shared his 
details in connection with several potential job opportunities. It therefore didnt seem 
strange when he was contacted directly by someone who said they were from a 
recruitment agency.
- The platform Mr G worked with impersonated the companys genuine branding, had 
legitimate products that company sold and simulated authentic seeming activities.
- Mr G was new to the UK and this made him particularly vulnerable to a scam of this 
kind. 
Ive considered these further representations carefully but Im not persuaded to depart from 
the view I set out in that email. I accept that it wouldnt have seemed unusual to be 
contacted directly in connection with a job opportunity given that Mr G was actively seeking 
work and I also recognise that the scammers took steps to make the platform he worked with 
look like it was genuinely provided by the legitimate business.
Unfortunately, I still think he ought to have had concerns about an arrangement under which 
he had to pay significant sums to his employer in order to earn money. I accept that Mr G 
was a recent arrival in the UK, but I dont find it likely that this arrangement wouldve seemed 
any more plausible in any other country. He was only able to earn a small sum (£40) and I dont think that would be enough to conclude that it was reasonable for him to have believed 
the opportunity was a genuine one.
I accept that he was motivated by significant financial pressures and Im sympathetic to the 
difficulties he was facing at the time. Nonetheless, I think he shouldve recognised that the 
opportunity was unlikely to be a genuine one for the reasons Ive explained. 
For completeness, Ive also considered whether Wise did what it shouldve done once it was 
notified that Mr G had fallen victim to a scam. It would typically be expected to contact the 
receiving bank to try and recover any remaining funds. Unfortunately, there was a significant 
delay between Mr G making these payments and eventually notifying Wise that hed fallen 
victim to a scam and the recipients removed their funds from those accounts straight away. 
As a result, Wise wasnt able to recover any funds from the receiving accounts.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part.
If Mr G accepts my decision, Wise Payments needs to: 
- Pay him 50% of the funds he transferred in connection with the scam from and 
including the payment of £4,393 made on 5 November.
- It should add 8% simple interest per annum to this sum calculated to run from 5 
November until the date any settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman