DRN-3386149
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected their 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to their 
purchase of some solar panels.
Background
Mr and Mrs S bought solar panels for their home in August 2015. The purchase was funded 
by a loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr and Mrs S into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs S, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure 
should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of 
assumptions on future performance. She also said that Shawbrook should pay Mr and Mrs S 
£100 for their inconvenience.
Shawbrook didnt respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is mainly because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr and Mrs S were not 
given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and 
would equate to an additional cost for them. I have also found that the panels are performing 
at slightly less than 90% of their estimated performance.
So I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr and Mrs S fairly and they lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating 
the original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs S 
from the solar panels over the ten year term of the loan so they pay no more than that, and 
they keep the solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs S are paying (or have paid) more than they should 
have, then Shawbrook need to reimburse them accordingly. (Should the calculation show 
that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be 
shared with them by way of explanation.)
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure the loan. They should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs S in a position 
where the solar panel system is cost-neutral over the ten year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr and Mrs Ss monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they would have paid more each month than they should have done, 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as they would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add simple interest at 8% a year from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. So I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr 
and Mrs S have the following options as to how they would like their overpayments to be 
used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs S and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs S and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs S accept my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept by writing A, B, C or D on the form.
If Mr and Mrs S have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
interest at 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs S have settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Shawbrook, and then Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs S paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs S receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs S paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs S receive their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they would have owed if the system had been self-funding.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs S first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that 
Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman