DRN-4222755
The complaint
Ms G and Mr K complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim 
made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Ms G and Mr K Have a home insurance policy, which includes home emergency cover 
underwritten by RSA. 
They contacted RSA on Friday 9 December 2022 after their boiler stopped working and they 
were left without hot water or heating. Ms G and Mr K have two young children living in the 
house.
RSA sent an engineer the same day. They said the temperature sensor needed to be 
replaced. This couldnt be carried out at the time, so RSAs agents began arrangements to 
send out an engineer the following week. 
They also agreed to provide alternative accommodation for the family in the meantime, 
beginning the following day. And they later provided a payment for heaters to be used in the 
house whilst the heating wasnt working.
Subsequently, the contractors RSA asked to carry out the repairs reported that the boiler 
manufacturer had already arranged to send out an engineer to carry out the necessary 
repairs.
RSAs agents say Mr K told them this wasnt in fact the case. So, they instructed the 
contractors to attend on 15 December, as originally planned.
The contractors say they attended on 15 December, as agreed, but there was no-one at the 
property to let them in to carry out the repairs. Mr K tells us he was at the property all day. 
Ms G and Mr K werent happy with the service theyd received from RSA and/or their agents, 
and so made a complaint to them. 
They werent happy with the alternative accommodation arrangements, at least in part 
because on the first night theyd been directed to a hotel, where they say they were told the 
family would have to wait for a cancellation before being allocated a room.
They also thought the communication with RSA and/or their agents was poor. They had to 
make several calls to different agents or contractors. And no-one seemed to take control of 
the situation.
And they say RSA failed to provide the service promised under the insurance contract 
because they didnt get the boiler fixed.
RSA admitted the service Ms G and Mr K had received hadnt been at the level theyd 
expect. Theyd had to make a number of calls to get things sorted and there was some 
confusion and mis-communication on the part of the contractors who were tasked to visit on 
15 December. 
RSA paid Ms G and Mr K £85 in compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused 
them.
Ms G and Mr K werent happy with is outcome and brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt think RSA needed to do anything more for Ms G and 
Mr K.
Ms G and Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its been very difficult for our investigator to establish the facts in this case. Thats partly 
because there is a very clear conflict of evidence between Ms G and Mr K on the one hand 
and RSAs contractors on the other.
This hasnt been helped by the fact that RSA delegated dealing with the complaint to an 
agent. That agent said they couldnt deal with the aspects of the complaint for which other 
agents were responsible. Thats clearly a very unsatisfactory state of affairs.
On the balance of probabilities, I believe what happened is the following.
RSA accepted the claim. Their agents sent an engineer the same day. And arranged for a 
further visit on 15 December to carry out the necessary repairs. Other RSA agents arranged 
alternative accommodation, but Ms G and Mr K are right to say this didnt go entirely 
smoothly.
It appears that before RSAs engineers were due to attend (on 15 December) someone 
attended the property and resolved the issue  at least temporarily. 
RSA say that was the boiler manufacturer. They say when their contractors contacted the 
manufacturer to enquire about the age and nature of the boiler (presumably by giving them 
the serial number), the manufacturer said they were due to visit the property on 14 
December to assess the situation and carry out repairs.
Mr K tells us he in fact had a different engineer  recommended to him locally - attend on 14 
December. Its not entirely clear what Mr K says that engineer did, but it appears some 
solution was found to the problem with the boiler and heating.
Our investigator contacted the boiler manufacturer to establish what part, if any, theyd 
played in these events. 
They confirmed that theyd been contacted on 9 December and set up a job for an engineer 
to visit the property on 14 December. They had then attended and replaced the sensor. 
They said this was arranged either by Mr K or someone with the authority to act on his 
behalf. And they confirmed that person would have known on 9 December that a visit was 
planned for the 14 December.It appears most likely then that Mr K  or someone acting on his behalf  set up the 
manufacturers visit and asked them to deal with the problem with the boiler.
Mr K seems to suggest that it was RSAs contractors who contacted the manufacturer on 9 
December and asked them to attend to carry out repairs. 
Its not entirely clear to me though why that would have been in the interests of the 
contractor (who would be losing a job). And it doesnt really tally with what were told 
happened when the contractor first rang the manufacturer  which was that the 
manufacturers records showed a visit already booked. 
As it happens, whatever fix was achieved on 14 December  whether by the boiler 
manufacturer or Mr Ks locally-recommended engineer - appears not to have worked in the 
longer term. The manufacturer attended again in January after further problems were 
experienced and recommended a system flush and the addition of chemicals to guard 
against sludge in the system.
Without trying to resolve exactly what happened, Im reasonably sure that an engineer 
visited in the few days before the scheduled visit from RSAs agents on 15 December and at 
least temporarily resolved the problem. 
Im confident this happened because if it hadnt, I would have expected Ms G and Mr K to 
have been in touch with RSAs agents fairly swiftly to ask them to (quickly) re-schedule the 
visit and to arrange continued alternative accommodation. And they did neither of those 
things.
So, in summary, RSA attended quickly on 9 December, when initially contacted by Ms G and 
Mr K. They then arranged for the repairs to be carried out reasonably soon (on 15 
December)  and paid for heaters at the house and alternative accommodation in the 
meantime. And after 15 December, they werent asked to do anything more by Ms G and 
Mr K.
It seems to me than that RSA have fulfilled their obligations under the insurance contract 
with Ms G and Mr K. If Ms G and Mr K got the problem resolved before RSAs contractors 
attended the property on the agreed date, thats not RSAs responsibility or their error. Nor 
should RSA be expected to pay for those repairs.
Its not disputed that RSA are entitled to charge policyholders for visits made by contactors, 
at a pre-arranged date and time, if the policyholder isnt at home to allow the contractors to 
enter the property.
Im satisfied that RSAs contractors very likely did attend on 15 December, as agreed, and 
found no-one there to let them in to the house. RSAs agents record show this. And RSA 
have provided copies of emails exchanged between their agents and contractors beforehand 
which show the agent insisting that the contractor attend  and the contractor agreeing to do 
that.
As I say, on balance, Im satisfied RSA have done what the policy terms say they will do. 
There was some confusion about the alternative accommodation and RSAs agents didnt 
provide a good service in that respect. And RSAs agents have admitted other 
communications might have been better too. 
Ms G and Mr K should be properly compensated for the trouble and upset this caused. But 
RSA have already paid them £85 and waived the fee for their contractors call out on 15 
December. And Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable compensation in this case. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms G and Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman