DRN-3558361
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint is about the events surrounding consent to change the title to their 
home, which is mortgaged to Bank of Scotland plcs (BoS). They have said that they werent 
provided with a copy of the consent given in 2018 when they asked for it and werent told in 
a timely manner that it had expired, and they had to go through the process again. They 
believe the delay this created was the reason they lost the sale of their property in 2021.
 
What happened
In 2018 Mr and Mrs G had agreed to swap a piece of land that formed part of their property 
title with another that belonged to the neighbouring property. This was in order to satisfy 
planning requirements for access to Mr and Mrs Gs property for a proposed development of 
it. As their mortgage with BoS was secured against the property title, they needed BoS 
permission to do this. BoS gave that permission, which stated:
This consent applies until 28/12/2019, at which time it will expire. After this date, if the 
matter had not been completed, the proposal will need to be considered again. in addition, 
during this period, the right is reserved to reconsider the decision if there are any material 
changes to the proposal or the mortgage account, such as arrears of further lending. If I do 
not hear from you by the above date, I will assume that you no longer want to go ahead and 
will close the file.
The sale of their property, which the swap was in place to facilitate, didnt go ahead. Mr and 
Mrs G told BoS that they were planning to apply for planning permission themselves to 
increase the value of the property. 
Mr and Mrs G have told us that in 2020 a new offer was made for their property, but the 
planning requirement still meant that the land swap had to go ahead. Mr and Mrs G needed 
to provide the new purchaser with evidence of BoS consent for their title to be altered. 
Theyve told us that the 2018 consent was given to the buyer in place at that time and they 
didnt retain a copy. 
Mr and Mrs G contacted BoS on 10 February 2021 about the land swap issue. They asked 
for a copy of the consent letter from 2018. They were told it would take up to ten working 
days. 
On 6 March 2021 Mr and Mrs G told BoS that their neighbour had pulled out of the land 
swap arrangement and put their home up for sale. As such, Mr and Mrs G had lost their 
buyer. Mr and Mrs G have told us it was not until they received a letter from BoS on 
15 March 2021 they were told that the 2018 consent had expired in 2019.
It appears that Mr and Mrs G continued to pursue agreement for the land swap from both 
their neighbours and BoS, despite their sale having fallen through. BoS gave consent again 
on 15 July 2021, which had an expiry date of 15 July 2022. 
Mr and Mrs G subsequently complained to BoS about the service they received in the form 
of not having been told that the 2018 offer had expired when they initially spoke to BoS 
about getting a copy. Nor were they told at that time that they needed to start the consent 
process again. They believe this delay had caused them to lose their sale and the ability to 
complete the land swap, which would lead them to have to sell their property for less than 
anticipated. Mr and Mrs G also said that they were not aware that the 2018 consent had an 
expiry date linked to it.
BoS responded to the complaint on 13 July 2021. It said that it agreed with part of the 
complaint  that Mr and Mrs G should have been reminded earlier than they were that the 
previous consent had expired and they should have been provided with a copy of it earlier 
than they were. BoS offered Mr and Mrs G £100 compensation for this poor service. 
However, BoS was satisfied that it had told them in 2018 the consent expired after a year, so 
on 28 December 2019. It said that it was unfortunate that they didnt have a copy of the 
consent in 2020, but that was because the third party theyd given it to hadnt returned it, 
rather that something BoS had done.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with the response and referred their complaint to this service. 
When they did so, they told us that their neighbour had now sold (subject to contract) their 
property and so they might not be able to get the swap done in the future and so may not be 
able to sell the property for as much. They told us that theyd initially asked for a copy of the 
2018 consent letter in November 2020 and had made numerous calls thereafter to chase the 
request. Mr and Mrs G also said that they felt they were under pressure from BoS to sell 
their property during this time.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Mr and Mrs G repeated that theyd asked for a copy of the 2018 consent letter in 
November 2020 and had chased it numerous times. As such, the delay in a copy of it being 
provided was more than the investigator had acknowledged. They said that they didnt 
accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
The investigator confirmed that while Mr and Mrs G had said they had asked for a copy of 
the consent in 2020, BoS notes about the contents of the calls it had with Mr and Mrs G 
didnt support that being the case. The first mention of the consent after the 2018 sale fell 
through, was in February 2021. As Mr and Mrs G remained dissatisfied, the complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G have said that they are in the position they are because of the pressure BoS 
placed on them to sell their home. As our investigator explained, it was not unreasonable for 
BoS to expect them to repay their mortgage at the end of the term when theyd said they 
would. However, when borrowers are not in the position to do so, we would expect a lender 
to assist them where possible and reasonable. From the information we have about the 
situation, it would appear that BoS applied its forbearance policies to Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage for many years before the events currently being complained about occurred. I say 
this as the mortgage appears to have originally expired in 2015, following which a formal 
term extension was given and then further periods of grace to enable the property to be sold, as Mr and Mrs G said they were planning to do. I dont consider that BoS did anything wrong 
in this respect.
As for the consent letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs G in 2018, it made it very clear that it 
had an expiry date and highlighted that date in bold. It was Mr and Mrs Gs decision not to 
retain a copy of the letter for future reference. As such, there was nothing wrong with BoS 
requirement in 2021 for a new application to be made. 
Mr and Mrs G have said it took BoS months from their first request for a copy of the consent 
for it to tell them that it had expired and they needed to start a new application. However, 
BoS records show that the first time Mr and Mrs G asked for a copy of the consent was in 
February 2021, several months later than their recollections. It is for us to assess the 
reliability of evidence, to decide how much weight to attach to it, and what conclusions can 
be drawn from it. The value of contemporaneous documents is that they should reflect what 
was said and agreed at the relevant time. They are not fool-proof, and it is always possible 
information might be recorded incorrectly or not at all, but typically it is more reliable that 
peoples individual recollections at a distance in time. While such recollections are given in 
good faith, they can sometimes be inaccurate, contradictory, or affected by hindsight. So 
unless there is a compelling reason to believe the contemporaneous information is 
inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
I have reviewed the information about the calls Mr G made to BoS in November and 
December 2020. The records are detailed and none of them indicate that a copy of the 2018 
consent letter was requested. Rather it appears the calls focused on Mr and Mrs Gs 
planning application having been declined, their plan to appeal the decision and, therefore, 
their need for a further extension of time from BoS regarding the repayment of their 
mortgage. Had Mr and Mrs G requested a copy of the 2018 consent in November 2020 and 
chased it on numerous occasions in these calls, I would have expected at least one of the 
call notes to have referenced the matter, but none of them do. 
As such, it appears most likely that the request wasnt made until February 2020. BoS has 
acknowledged that it should have told Mr and Mrs G that the 2018 consent had expired 
earlier than the approximately seven weeks it took to do so. It also accepted that it should 
have provided the copy document earlier. However, as I have said, it was a matter of around 
seven weeks, and it was not BoS fault that Mr and Mrs G hadnt retained a copy of the 
document and didnt remember that it was only valid for a year. 
It also doesnt appear that BoS was responsible for the sale falling through, as based on 
what Mr G told it, that happened because the neighbour pulled out of the land swap; a swap 
that could have been completed many years earlier. As such, I am satisfied the £100 BoS 
offered is sufficient for the poor service it provided Mr and Mrs G in relation to the slight 
delay in providing them with a copy of the expired consent and telling them they needed to 
start a new application.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 August 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman