DRN-4307410
The complaint
Miss C complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
Miss C says that, had Mr Lender looked at her credit file, it wouldve seen a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) as well as other debt and so wouldnt have agreed to lend to her.
What happened
Miss C was advanced five loans by Mr Lender and a summary of her borrowing can be
found in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 13/04/2018 10/09/2018 3 £127.46
2 £500.00 10/09/2018 21/03/2019 6 £239.33
3 £1,000.00 21/03/2019 01/03/2020 12 £219.29
gap in lending
4 £500.00 23/05/2021 15/12/2021 6 £199.33
5 £600.00 15/12/2021 29/06/2023 12 £147.20
Following Miss Cs complaint, Mr Lender wrote to her to explain why it wasnt going to
uphold it. Unhappy with this response, Miss C referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and he explained why he didnt think
Mr Lender had made an error when it approved loans 1, 4 and 5. These loans werent
upheld. 
However, he upheld loans 2 and 3. He said loan 1 was paid late and Miss C incurred
late payment fees. And as loan 2 was granted on the same day as loan 1 was repaid,
Mr Lender ought to have conducted further checks. And these further checks wouldve
shown Mr Lender that Miss C was in financial difficulties.
Miss C appears to have accepted the outcome the adjudicator reached.
Mr Lender didnt agree with the outcome about loans 2 and 3, in summary it said:
Miss C didnt miss any payments when she repaid loan 1. Any interest only payments 
(deferrals) were agreed.
A screen shot was provided to show that on 13 April 2018 a deferral was agreed with 
Miss C  this was the day loan 1 was advanced.
Only one deferral was granted during the course of loan 1 because one was agreed 
at the point of sale and the second deferral was made after Miss C had made her 
first two payments.
To review bank statements before loan 2 was advanced wouldve been 
disproportionate.
The adjudicator explained to Mr Lender why its comments hadnt changed his mind and he 
was satisfied that loan 1 was repaid later than planned. Mr Lender didnt agree and in 
addition to the points it made in response to the assessment it also said:
Miss C (for loan 1) successfully made her payments on time either when the loan 
payment was rolled over or when a contractual payment was due.
Mr Lender wasnt made aware of any financial difficulties that Miss C may have been
having.
Allowing up to two deferrals is in line with the regulations (Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) 6.7.23)  this is a feature of the product and not considered 
forbearance.
There wasnt any indication from the credit search results Mr Lender received to 
indicate Miss C was subject to a CCJ. 
Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information it received from the credit reference 
agency.
The complaint was then passed to me, I then issued my provisional decision explaining the 
reasons why I was intending to not uphold Miss Cs complaint. Both parties were asked to 
provide any further submissions as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 
17 August 2023. 
Mr Lender acknowledged the provisional decision but didnt have anything further to add. 
Miss C didnt respond to the provisional decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Miss C could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Miss Cs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss C. These factors include:
Miss C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);Miss C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period 
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss C. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Miss Cs complaint.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss C was able to
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Cs complaint.
Miss C appears to have accepted the findings the adjudicator reached, which included not
upholding her complaint about loans 1, 4 and 5. In addition, Mr Lender also appears to have
agreed with the adjudicator  that it was reasonable for it to have advanced those loans.
To me, these loans appear to no longer be in dispute.
What I would say is that given there was two loan chains, due to a break in borrowing
between loans 3 and 4 I dont think the outcome the adjudicator reached for these loans was
unreasonable. I therefore say no more about them and instead this decision focuses on what
happened when loans 2 and 3 were provided.
Loans 2 and 3
For both loans, Miss C told Mr Lender she earned £1,130 each month and
Miss C had declared monthly outgoings of £530 for loan 2 and £651 for loan 3, to cover a
number of different items including food, other credit commitments and utilities.
Based solely on the information Miss C declared to Mr Lender, it wouldve been reasonable
for it to believe Miss C would be able to afford her largest repayment of around £296 per
month. The loans were structured in a way which meant Miss Cs largest payment was due
for both loans in the first month, and then each payment subsequently decreased in value.
Mr Lender has also said it conducted a credit search and it has provided the Financial 
Ombudsman with the summary of the results it received. It is worth saying that there is no 
requirement within the regulations at the time to have done a credit search let
alone one to a specific standard.
Both credit searches showed that Miss C didnt have any other active payday loans at the
time and that Miss C hadnt been subject to any insolvency such as a CCJ within three years
of each loan application.
However, the adjudicator upheld these loans due to the way loan 1 was repaid which
indicated Miss C may have been having some problems and so Mr Lender ought to have
done some further checks before granting these loans.
Ive thought about this carefully and I disagree with the adjudicator, and Ive explained why
below.Firstly, with reference to loan 1, the credit agreement is clear, that Miss C was due to make
payments over three months, with payments due on 21 May 2018, 21 June 2018 and
20 July 2018. Given the loan was repaid in September 2018 the loan was clearly repaid later
than the credit agreement had expected.
However, Ive also considered the regulations and what has actually happened in this
complaint. Mr Lender has signed posted us to CONC 6.7.23 which says:
A firm must not refinance high-cost short-term credit (other than by exercising
forbearance) on more than two occasions.
And Mr Lender has already shown, that on the day the loan was granted, it agreed the first
deferral  it isnt clear why one was granted so soon after the loan being advanced and / or
what Mr Lender was told to facilitate the deferral.
What this meant, was for the first payment due on 21 May 2018, instead of Miss C paying
£127.47 (to cover interest and capital) she only paid £60.80 which was the contracted
amount of interest.
Miss C then paid the full contracted payment due on 21 June 2018 - as expected. Before
she again, deferred the 20 July 2018 payment  by only making a payment to cover the
interest that had been charged over the last month. Following this, two further monthly
repayments were made which successful repaid loan 1.
However, Miss C wasnt charged late fees for making interest only repayments in
May and July 2018. The only cost was the amount of extra Miss C paid to defer the loan.
The industry regulator has foreseen that at times a consumer may wish to roll over payments
 which has happened here - as long as there are no more than two roll overs  as the
above guidance says. While Miss C has taken advantage of the two roll overs, I dont
necessarily think that means she was having financial difficulties.
It is, unusual, for a loan have a deferral agreed on the day credit is advanced as per
Mr Lenders screen shot and not be reflected in the credit agreement repayment structure.
I have some concerns that loan 2 was advanced on the same day loan 1 was repaid and
was for more than twice the value to be repaid over a longer term of six months.
In saying that, Miss C wasnt late with any of her payments due for loan 1 (albeit there were
deferrals) and the credit search conducted by Mr Lender for both of these loans didnt show
it that either Miss C was having financial difficulties or was subject to any sort of insolvency.
While, Mr Lender clearly hasnt breached the regulations by allowing two deferrals for loan
one, I have had to consider whether that on its own means that it has treated Miss C fairly.
The deferrals have allowed Miss C some flexibility in her repayment of the loan and it isnt
clear why Mr Lender agreed to the deferrals in the first place. However, given that after the
deferrals were agreed, Miss C repaid her loan without any obvious problems  indeed the
final repayment was made earlier than planned.
I do think, in those circumstances, Mr Lender hasnt made an error in allowing the roll overs,
and I dont think the fact that loan 1 was rolled over ought to have led Mr Lender to do further
checks for the later loans.
The information Mr Lender received before loan 2 was granted, showed that Miss C could
afford the repayments she was committed to making and didnt show any signs of
insolvency. I accept the adjudicator found a CCJ being recorded in the months before the
loan was approved, but this wasnt reflected in the information Mr Lender received from the
credit reference agency. Which is peculiar given the CCJ is a public record, but the summary
provided does show it wasnt told about the CCJ. And, Miss C went on to repay loan 2
without any obvious difficulties  all her repayments were made on time and without the
need for a deferral.Turning to loan 3, Ive already explained above, what the checks showed Mr Lender when it
considered Miss Cs applications  which again didnt show any signs of insolvency or CCJs.
And loan 2, was also repaid without any difficulties. And given the structure of loan 3,
Miss Cs largest repayment was due when the first repayment was due.
Taking account of all these factors, there wasnt anything else in the information that Ive
seen that wouldve led Mr Lender to believe that it needed to go further with its checks
before it granted loan 3. At this point it wouldve been disproportionate of it to have asked for
bank statements.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to
have relied on the information Miss C provided about her income and expenditure to show
she had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments for both loans 2 and 3. And in
my view, the deferrals that occurred when loan 1 was repaid, isnt sufficient to have
prompted Mr Lender to have done further checks.
Finally, there also wasnt anything else to suggest that Miss C was having financial
difficulties or that the loan repayments would be unsustainable for her.
I am therefore intending to not uphold Miss Cs complaint about loans 2 and 3.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender has agreed with the conclusions I was intending to reach, and weve not heard 
back from Miss C since I issued my provisional decision. Therefore, as no further 
submissions have been made, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in the 
provisional decision. 
So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I still dont 
think, given the deferrals on loan one that it wouldve been sufficient for Mr Lender to have 
done further checks before it granted loans two and three. And the checks it did do before it 
granted these loans suggested Miss C could afford her repayments. 
I am therefore not upholding Miss Cs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Miss Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman