DRN-3653440
The complaint
Mr U complains that Helvetia Schweizerische Versicherungsgesellschaft in Liechtenstein AG 
(HSV) declined his claim for theft of his mobile phone.
What happened
Mr U had gadget insurance underwritten by HSV which covered his mobile phone for theft, 
amongst other perils.
While out, Mr U noticed his phone was missing. Hed put it in his pocket when he collected 
some food from a take-out restaurant and realised after a few hours that it was no longer 
there. He retraced his steps but, unable to find it, he reported it as stolen to the police and 
HSV.
HSV declined Mr Us claim because he hadnt demonstrated that his phone was covered by 
an insured peril. That is, he hadnt proven theft and his policy didnt provide cover for loss. 
Mr U complained but on reviewing his claim again, HSV repeated its decision to decline. 
Mr U brought his complaint to this service, but our investigator didnt find that HSV had done 
anything wrong. The policy didnt provide cover for loss and our investigator didnt think HSV 
had treated Mr U unfairly by saying he hadnt demonstrated that his phone was stolen.
Because Mr U didnt agree with the outcome, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Us complaint and Ill explain why.
When making a claim, its the policyholders responsibility to show that theyve suffered an 
insured loss. So, here, Mr U needed to show that it was more likely than not that his phone 
was stolen. I appreciate that its difficult to prove theft over loss if Mr U only noticed later that 
his phone was missing. But I cant say that HSV has treated him unfairly by asking him to 
provide evidence that supports his claim.
Mr U provided details of the police report. However, the report simply confirms what Mr U 
reported rather than indicating that the police were investigating a theft.
He also provided details of his last usage on the phone and that hed blacklisted it. But I 
dont think theres any dispute that he no longer has the phone. The issue is, simply, that 
hes not provided sufficient evidence to show that his phone was stolen.
Mr U said HSV hasnt provided evidence that his phone was lost. As I said, its Mr Us 
responsibility to prove he has a valid claim under the policy. I wouldnt be expecting HSV to 
investigate the circumstances to prove his claim for him.
I understand Mr U thinks CCTV footage from the restaurant would show the theft taking 
place. That may be so, but without that evidence, theres nothing more Id expect HSV to do 
in the circumstances.
In summary, it seems Mr U assumed his phone was stolen because it was unlikely to have 
fallen out of his pocket, and the restaurant had been crowded, providing an opportunity for 
theft. While that may be true, in the absence of any evidence to support his claim for theft, I 
find that HSV hasnt done anything wrong by declining his claim for lack of evidence. Should 
Mr U identify any further evidence to support his claim, he can still present that to HSV.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman