DRN-3400681
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) sold units 
in their Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) without their authority to meet the ongoing 
charges of the investment funds.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs C transferred their ISA investments from a provider I will call Company L. This 
was because Company L had decided to transfer the administration of the investments to 
Fidelity. Shortly after the transfer completed Mr C and Mrs C complained to Fidelity that it 
had changed the basis of the charging structure without their authority and units within the 
fund had been encashed to pay for the ongoing charges of the investment.
Fidelity didnt uphold the complaint and explained that although its charging structure was 
different to Company L it had provided a 12-month guarantee that Mr C and Mrs C wouldnt 
pay more in charges. Fidelity said that the documents provided before the transfer made it 
reasonably clear to Mr C and Mrs C how the way Fidelity took its charges differed from that 
of company L.
Mr C and Mrs C werent happy with the response they received from Fidelity and they 
brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into things and thought that Fidelity hadnt done anything wrong. Mr C and Mrs C 
didnt agree and asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C and Mrs C will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons 
as the Investigator Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I will now explain why.
When Company L made the decision to transfer the administration of the ISAs to Fidelity it 
provided a number of documents for Mr C and Mrs C to consider. These included a booklet 
headed Transferring to Fidelity and the full terms and conditions of the Fidelity investment. 
Theres no dispute that Mr C and Mrs C agreed to the transfer and in doing so its 
reasonable to conclude theyd accepted the terms of the transfer and the terms and 
conditions of the Fidelity investment. The number of units held would change but the value 
invested would be the same.
The crux of Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint is that Fidelity sold units to pay for the ongoing 
investment fee, whereas Company L had been deducting its charges differently. Its 
important to note that the investments held by Company L were held in different class of 
units to those that Fidelity could administer, and that the investment class would change 
when the transfer completed. The documents went on to explain how Fidelity took its 
charges from the new class of investment and that it was different to how Company L had 
taken its charges. When the investments were held with Company L the charges were taken 
from the underlying fund through the unit price. Fidelity, on the other hand, would separate 
its charges and take them in a different way. 
I cant tell Fidelity how it should take its charges, but I would expect Fidelity to make it clear 
to Mr C and Mrs C how it would take its charges before the ISAs were transferred. In this 
case Im satisfied the documents sent to Mr C and Mrs C before the transfer completed 
made it reasonably clear that Fidelity would take its charges from a cash management 
account and that this would be different to Company L. The documents explained to Mr C 
and Mrs C that they had the option to fund the cash management account if they didnt want 
units in the investment to be sold and the cash put in the cash management account to 
cover the ongoing charges. 
I appreciate Mr C and Mrs C were disappointed that units were sold to pay the ongoing 
charges, especially as theyd not experienced the charges being paid for in this way before. 
However, I dont think Fidelity did anything wrong here. The cash management account 
didnt have cash funds to pay the charges due, and the terms and conditions of the Fidelity 
investment allowed Fidelity to sell units in the fund to pay for the ongoing charges if this was 
the case.
There is clearly a difference in the way Fidelity took its charges, but this doesnt mean 
Fidelity did anything wrong. Fidelity provided a guarantee that the charges would be kept 
below the charges Company L was making for at least 12-months, and Ive seen no 
evidence that it broke this guarantee.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint made by Mr C 
and Mrs C against Financial Administration Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman