DRN-3663474
The complaint
Mr A complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined a claim under his furniture 
protection policy. 
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here.
In 2016, Mr A brought a leather sofa from a furniture retailer. He opted to take out a five-year 
leather care plan alongside it. The policy, provided by Great Lakes, covered him for staining 
and accidental damage.
In 2021, Mr A made a claim for accidental damage. He said on his claim form that the 
leather had torn from the joint and that hed discovered this during [his] routine cleaning. 
Great Lakes arranged for a technician to inspect the sofa, who found tearing in multiple 
places across the back and arm covers. It was their opinion that the damage had occurred 
due to wear and tear as well as a lack of regular maintenance  which are excluded under 
the policy. Based on this advice, Great Lakes declined the claim. 
Mr A disputed this decision. He said the damage occurred as a result of an accident his 
children had with some pencils. He said he didnt know this at the time he filled out his claim 
form, but that his children had eventually told him what had happened. 
Great Lakes referred the case to a senior technician for a review and they agreed with the 
first technicians report, also concluding that the damage occurred over time. So Great Lakes 
maintained its decision that the claim was excluded by the policy terms. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. But our investigator 
didnt uphold it as he was satisfied that Great Lakes had considered the available evidence 
and applied the policy terms both correctly and fairly. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for any complaint about a claim is the contract of insurance between the 
parties  the policy. It sets out the terms and conditions, what cover is provided, definitions 
and any exclusions that apply. 
Mr A holds a five-year leather cover policy which says it will cover the following:
1) Staining: 
Leather and Leather-Look upholstery: Resulting from sudden and accidental contact 
with any substance.
2) Accidental damage:
Leather and Leather-Look upholstery: a sudden and accidental event resulting in a 
rip, tear, burn, scratch, puncture or scuff.
The policy goes on to exclude:
Damage caused deliberately by any person other than the first incident of deliberate 
child damage covered under this insurance;
Wear and tear consistent with the initial quality of the product and the manner in 
which the product is used;
Neglect, abuse, or misuse of the product
The onus is on Mr A to show that he has a valid claim under the policy, as such he needs to 
prove that the damage to his sofa was as a result of a sudden and accidental event. 
I can see that the claim form asked Mr A to provide as much detail as possible about the 
nature of the problem and how it occurred. But Mr A makes no mention of any accidental 
event, only that he found the torn leather whilst cleaning it.
I appreciate Mr A later confirms that the damage was made by his children who were playing 
with pencils. But its not entirely clear how this caused the damage to the extent thats shown 
in the photos. I say this because, other than the significant tear along the seam of the back 
cover which arguably couldve been caused by a child with a pencil, some of the damage 
was found in areas that are harder to get to and show the leather coming apart at various 
seams and joins over both the sofa and the armchair. 
Great Lakes has obtained a report from an expert, and had it reviewed by a senior 
technician. I think the technicians are qualified to give an opinion. I can also see myself from 
the photos that there is damage across the sofa and armchair which would be consistent 
with damage caused by wear and tear. So I dont think there has been an obvious error by 
either of the technicians which meant Great Lakes couldnt rely on the report.
I understand Mr A believes the technicians havent acted independently or impartially when 
providing their report. I havent seen any evidence to suggest this is the case. But Mr A is 
entitled to get his own independent experts opinion on the damage, at his own cost, should 
he wish to. And if that opinion is supportive of his claim, he should provide it to Great Lakes 
for further consideration. 
Based on the evidence I have available, I dont think Mr A has evidenced his claim and Im 
satisfied Great Lakes decision to decline it was both correct and fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman