DRN-2874294
Complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) irresponsibly increased his overdraft 
limit as well as irresponsibly provided him with a loan.
Mr B is being assisted in his complaint by his father Mr B Sr who says Santander lent after 
he provided notification of Mr Bs mental health condition.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 1 June 2021
Mr B had an overdraft with an initial limit of £850. On 17 July 2019, Mr Bs overdraft limit was 
increased by £250 to £1,100.00. And two days later on 19 July 2019 the limit was then 
increased by a further £1,100.00 to £2,200.00. Mr B then successfully applied for a loan of 
£4,000.00 on 1 August 2019. This loan had an APR of 19.9% and was due to be repaid in 60 
instalments of £102.20.  
On 20 August 2019, Santander received a letter of complaint from Mr B Sr. Mr B Sr 
complained Mr B shouldnt have had his overdraft increased or provided with his loan as he 
was suffering from a mental health condition. Mr B Srs August 2019 letter also enclosed a 
letter to Santander from himself, dated 25 July 2019, which referred to Mr Bs condition and 
the need to bear this in mind should he request any further increases to his overdraft.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it hadnt received Mr B Srs letter of          
25 July 2019 until it was enclosed with his 19 August 2019 letter, which was received on    
20 August 2019. So this was after all the lending concerned had already been provided and 
as it wasnt aware of Mr Bs mental health condition at the time of the applications and its 
checks suggested the lending was affordable, it didnt think it had done anything wrong.     
Mr B Sr, on behalf of Mr B, remained dissatisfied and referred the matter to our service.
Mr Bs complaint was then considered by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that 
Santander was aware of Mr Bs condition at the respective times it agreed to lend. And as 
the lending appeared affordable she didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.          
Mr B Sr, on behalf of Mr B, disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the complaint.  
On 1 June 2021, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Bs 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including the key rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website. And that I referred to this when deciding Mr Bs complaint. 
I also set out that Id consider the sequence of events in the order that they happened and 
provide my findings accordingly.
Overdraft limit increases in July 2019
I started by saying that it wasnt in dispute the increases to Mr Bs overdraft limit took place 
before any of the correspondence Mr B Sr had referred to. So I thought it fair for me to 
consider this part of the complaint on the basis Santander wasnt aware of Mr Bs mental 
health condition. Although I did note that Mr B had already started receiving outpatient 
treatment just before the overdraft limit increases were agreed.
The first overdraft limit increase increased Mr Bs limit by £250 from £850 to £1,100.00. As 
the limit was only increased by £250, there was an argument for saying that this wasnt a 
significant increase to Mr Bs overdraft limit and so there wasnt a need for a further 
affordability assessment. I did say that I had some sympathy for this argument. But, in any 
event, Mr Bs account was reasonably well funded and saw a credit balance for a significant 
part of the month in the months leading up to the application. 
And there wasnt anything in Mr Bs statements in the period leading up to this application to 
suggest that he wouldnt have been able to repay £1,100.00 within a reasonable period of 
time in the event he had to. So I thought that even if an affordability assessment had been 
required, I didnt think that it would have made much difference and it wasnt unreasonable 
for Santander to have provided this overdraft limit increase to Mr B.
The second limit increase was provided only a couple of days after the first increase. I 
thought it could be argued that a second limit increase such a short period of time after the 
first one might have been a warning sign  especially as the various banking and lending 
codes over the years referred to repeated requests for additional borrowing or frequent 
requests for increased overdraft limits as a sign a consumer may be in financial difficulty. But 
I was mindful that the first limit increase was for only £250. And so in total, Mr B was only 
advanced a further £1,350.00.
Bearing in mind the short period, little had changed in Mr Bs financial circumstances 
between the two applications. His account remained well-funded and it was still the case that 
hed regularly been in credit. There was more going into his account each month than going 
out and there didnt appear to be any funds from unsustainable sources. Equally, there 
wasnt anything else to suggest that Mr B wouldnt be able to repay £2,200.00 within a 
reasonable period of time either. 
As this was the case, I found that Santander hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr B when it increased his overdraft on both occasions in July 2019. 
Mr B Srs letter of 25 July 2019
I then considered Mr Bs letter of 25 July 2019. I started by saying that Mr B Sr accepted that 
he didnt inform Santander of Mr Bs mental health condition prior to the overdraft limit 
increases being provided. But he nevertheless maintained that he did inform Santander of 
this matter when he sent it a letter on 25 July 2019. Santander said it never received this 
letter until a copy of it was enclosed with Mr B Srs 19 August 2019 letter.
I didnt know what if anything was sent in July 2019 and more importantly what might or 
might not have been received. But our adjudicator explained that when considering whether 
correspondence was more likely than not received wed typically look at things such as 
whether the correspondence in question was correctly addressed, which service was used 
and what proof of postage has been provided. 
With this in mind, I reviewed copies of all the correspondence Mr B and Santander provided. 
I thought it important to note that while Mr B Srs letter of 19 August 2019, which Santander 
confirmed receiving on the following day, did appear to be correctly addressed, Mr B Srs 
letter of 25 July 2019 didnt include an address in the same way. And Mr B Sr hadnt been able to provide any proof of postage either. So Mr B Sr had been unable to provide proof of 
postage or a copy of a correctly addressed letter from July 2019.
As this was the case, I thought that I couldnt reasonably make the finding that Mr B Sr did 
send a correctly addressed letter to Santander on 25 July 2019. It was my view that Id 
simply not been provided with enough to support making such a finding. As this was the 
case, I found that Santander hadnt received any notification of Mr Bs mental health 
condition prior to 20 August 2019 and therefore it wasnt aware of this when Mr B applied for 
a loan of £4,000.00 on 1 August 2019. 
Was it fair and reasonable for Santander to provide Mr B with a loan for £4,000 on 1 August 
2019?
I then considered Mr Bs August 2019 loan application. I started by explaining that even 
though Santander might not have been aware of Mr Bs mental health condition when it 
considered Mr Bs loan application, this in itself didnt automatically mean it was fair and 
reasonable for it to lend. I said this because the rules and regulations when Santander 
provided Mr B with his loan required it to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable manner.
By this stage, Id already gone through the typical things Id expect a lender to consider 
when providing credit when I was deciding whether it was fair and reasonable for Santander 
to have concluded that Mr B could sustainably repay the overdraft limit increases. 
Essentially, Id expect a firm to consider factors such as the prospective borrowers income, 
expenditure and existing indebtedness when deciding whether to advance further credit.
In Mr Bs case, I thought it was clear that Mr B was approaching Santander for credit for the 
third time in a mere matter of weeks. And as this was a branch application, I was satisfied 
that Santander ought to have been aware that pretty much all of the additional overdraft 
funds granted had been spent in the two weeks between the second limit increase and this 
loan application. I was also particularly mindful that Santanders branch representative noted 
that Mr B appeared agitated at the time of this application. 
It wasnt my suggestion that this in itself ought to have alerted Santander to Mr Bs mental 
health condition. But I was satisfied that this coupled with Mr Bs rapidly increasing 
indebtedness and lack of plausible reason for this loan  home improvements when there 
wasnt anything to suggest he owned a home  meant Santander ought to have been alert to 
the fact that everything might not have been as it seemed. In reaching this conclusion, I was 
mindful that there was an argument for suggesting that Mr Bs loan was affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. But I also thought that given the circumstances, Santander 
ought to have been aware that it may well have been increasing Mr Bs indebtedness in a 
way that was harmful. 
So I thought that there was enough to suggest providing Mr B with this loan was 
irresponsible and I was minded to find that Santander didnt act fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr B when it provided him with a loan of £4,000.00 in August 2019.
I then went on to consider whether Mr B had lost out because of Santanders failure to treat 
him fairly and reasonably. Mr B ended up paying interest and charges on a loan which I was 
minded to find Santander shouldnt have provided him with. I considered Mr B Srs argument 
that Mr B shouldnt be required to pay back this loan. But I was mindful the vast majority of 
the funds went towards repaying the overdraft which I found Santander had fairly and 
reasonably provided Mr B with. I also thought that Mr B had received the rest of the funds 
advanced as a result of the loan too. As this was the case, I was satisfied that Mr Bs loss was the interest and charges paid on 
this loan and that was what Santander needed to put things right for. I then finally set out a 
method of putting things right for Mr B, which I found addressed Santanders failings and   
Mr Bs resulting loss.
Santanders response to my provisional decision
Santander confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and agreed to put things right 
in the way Id suggested.
Mr B Srs response to my provisional decision   
Mr B Sr responded to confirm that receipt of my provisional decision. He made no further 
points in relation to my overall conclusions but wanted it recognised July 2019 wasnt a 
complaint. It was sent to inform Santander of Mr B's mental health condition and a request 
not to advance him further funds in the circumstances. 
He addressed his letter to the address provided on Mr Bs bank statement and he finds it 
difficult to understand why this letter did not reach the appropriate section. His complaint, on 
behalf of Mr B, began when the loan was advanced despite what hed said in his letter.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by thanking the parties for their responses to my provisional decision. I was 
pleased to receive broad acceptances of the findings I reached and to learn that Santander 
was prepared to pay redress to Mr B.  
That said, I do want to say that I didnt consider Mr B Srs letter to Santander of 25 July 2019 
to be a complaint. And Im sorry if Mr B Sr felt that Id referred to his letter in this way, or if he 
felt that Id inferred hed made this argument. That certainly wasnt my intention. In my view, 
the contents of the July 2019 letter were written with the purpose of notifying Santander of 
Mr Bs mental health condition, rather than to make a complaint about Santander having 
increased Mr Bs overdraft limit. 
I can also understand why Mr B isnt persuaded that this letter didnt reach the relevant 
section at Santander. But I already explained in my provisional decision, why I couldnt 
reasonably make the finding that Mr Bs letter of 25 July 2019 was most likely received. And 
while I understand Mr B Srs disappointment regarding this, I havent been persuaded to 
depart from the findings I reached, about Mr B Srs letter of 25 July 2019, in my provisional 
decision of 1 June 2021. 
Overall and having considered everything, I find that Santander didnt treat Mr B unfairly 
when it increased his overdraft limit in July 2019. However, I also find that Santander didnt 
act fairly and reasonably towards Mr B when it provided him with a loan for £4,000.00 in 
August 2019. So this means that Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint and Santander 
needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr BHaving considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander should put things right for Mr B in 
the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr B paid on his August 2019 loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees and charges paid from the 
date they were paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman