DRN-3136586
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that they asked Barclays Bank UK PLC to keep their account open
for them, and it agreed to that, but then it closed it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O were contacted by Barclays to say that they had an account with the bank that
hadnt been used in a long time. Barclays said it planned to close it. Mr and Mrs O asked
Barclays to keep it open, and it said it would. But when they tried to make a payment into the
account, it had been closed.
Mr and Mrs O said that they tried to pay money into the account, but it was rejected. So they
ordered a new card and pin, and tried again, but the money was still rejected. When they
contacted Barclays, it then said it had closed the account by mistake.
Barclays said it was sorry, it had made a mistake. Mr and Mrs O did get in touch with it in
good time to keep their account open. But the agent they spoke to didnt go through the right
process to keep the account open for them, so it had been closed. Barclays said it couldnt
reopen the account, so it said that Mr and Mrs O would have to apply to get their money
back. It offered to pay them £50 to say sorry.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she understood Mr
and Mrs Ms frustration given they had done all they needed to, to keep the account open.
But she said this wasnt an account they used regularly, so aside from the inconvenience,
she didnt think there was any wider impact. She thought that the offer Barclays had made,
of £50, was fair. And Barclays could transfer the money that was in the account to another
bank, if Mr and Mrs O would like.
Mr and Mrs O didnt agree. They didn't feel it was fair given all the stress the bank had put
them through over the years.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Barclays has accepted it made a mistake here. So what Ive got to do, is to consider 
whether its done enough to make up for that.
Mr and Mrs O didnt think it had, given all the stress Barclays had caused them over 
the years. But, as our investigator explained, I can only look here at what Mr and Mrs 
O have complained about now, the problem with their account being closed.
Barclays thought about what had gone wrong, but it said that Mr and Mrs O hadnt 
used this account for some time. So Barclays thought that the impact on them of 
having this account closed was minimal. It thought a payment of £50 would be 
appropriate compensation.
I dont think thats quite right. I understand that there wasnt a lot of money in the 
account, and it hadnt been used for some time. But Mr and Mrs O have explained 
that they wanted to keep it open, for future use. Mr and Mrs O dont bank online, and 
there are no bank branches close to them, so they would not find it easy to open a 
new account.
I also note that Mr and Mrs O told us they made two trips to try to pay money into this 
account. So it looks like Barclays not only failed to keep Mr and Mrs Os account 
open, but then it also gave Mr and Mrs O wrong information about the status of their 
account.
For that reason, I think Barclays should pay a little more compensation, of £100. 
Thats what I currently propose to award.
At first, Barclays said Mr and Mrs O would have to complete a dormancy application 
to get the money from their account paid to them. But I can see Barclays no longer 
proposes to ask Mr and Mrs O to do that. I think it would be easiest for Mr and Mrs O 
if I ask Barclays to pay the balance of their closed account to them, as part of the 
resolution of this complaint. The account had £77.24 in it, when it was closed. So Ill 
include that in my award too.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied to accept my provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it agreed with my provisional decision. It would pay £100.00 in compensation 
and it would arrange for the dormancy funds to be paid out to Mr and Mrs O too. 
Mr and Mrs O also said that they would accept this offer, although they felt that the 
compensation amount was still low.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
 My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr and Mrs O £77.24 which was 
the balance of their account when it closed, and £100 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman