DRN-2632870
Complaint
Miss L has complained Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided her with an unaffordable loan. 
She says L2G didnt tell her the loan was repayable over 18 months either.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss L and L2G had told us. And he thought L2G 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss L unfairly. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss L disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ls complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss L 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Miss L with a loan for £250 in July 2019. It had an APR of 1,013.2% and
was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £57.14, which meant the total amount to be repaid 
was £1,028.52. L2G says it agreed to Miss Ls application after she provided details of her 
monthly income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit 
search it carried out on Miss L. The information Miss L provided about her income and 
expenditure showed hed be able to make the repayments she was committing to. But it, in 
any event, adjusted Miss Ls expenditure declaration to account for Miss Ls existing credit 
commitments and this still showed the required payments were affordable. L2G says, in 
these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
On the other hand, Miss L has said she was in financial difficulty and has provided us with 
her bank statements. Ive carefully thought about what Miss L and L2G have said. The first 
thing for me to say is that this was Miss Ls first loan with L2G. The information provided 
suggests Miss L was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure. Its also 
important to note that Miss L didnt include payments to any of the accounts shes now 
saying L2G should have known about. 
L2G carried external checks and didnt just rely on what it was told. It carried out a credit 
search which didnt show anything too alarming (there were a couple of up to date credit 
accounts but no payday loans). Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, and Miss Ls 
lack of previous lending with L2G, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to proceed on 
the basis of the information it obtained as, on the face of things, it appeared to be accurate. 
I accept Miss Ls actual circumstances at the time are more accurately reflected in her bank 
statements. And having looked at the bank statements the reason why she might not have 
been able to repay is immediately clear. But L2G could only make its decision based on the 
information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship and 
bearing in mind the amount of the monthly payment, I dont think proportionate checks 
wouldve extended into L2G asking Miss L to provide her bank statements.
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding
to lend to Miss L - it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the 
information it was provided with didnt tell the whole story. L2G reasonably relied on this 
information and given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of history with 
Miss L, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan.
Ive thought about what Miss L has said about the terms of this loan. The amount Miss L was 
expected to pay can only be described as eye-watering. And I appreciate making the 
payments has been and will be difficult. But the credit agreement makes no attempt to 
disguise and arguably brazenly sets out just how egregious these terms are and that the 
loan was to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £57.14. 
Its possible Miss L didnt pay much attention to these terms as it was a quick online process 
and her focus was on receiving the funds she was seeking. But as Miss L accepted the 
terms of this loan, overall I cant say that L2G has acted unfairly towards her given all the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss L. But I hope shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman