DRN-4434364
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs J have complained about HDI Global Speciality SE, the insurer for their let 
property, regarding a subsidence claim.
What happened
Cracks were noted in the let property in 2020 and a claim was made to HDI in late summer. 
Loss adjusters were appointed and investigations were undertaken. A claim for subsidence 
was accepted, with certain nearby trees owned by the local authority identified as the likely 
cause of the movement. The trees were removed during 2021 and in August HDI was 
confident that would resolve the movement with the property likely stabilising within a few 
months. It continued to monitor the property to ensure that was the case and an appointment 
was arranged with contractors to plan repairs.
In October 2021, when the latest monitoring readings were reviewed, HDI noted that only 
some of the movement had been abated, that some of the property was still moving. A 
further tree report was obtained which recommended felling further trees. With the planned 
repairs having to be put on hold. HDI contacted the local authority again but by June 2022, 
with no sign the local authority was going to fell the further trees, HDI decided to move to 
providing an engineered solution to offer stability even though the trees remained.
Mr G and Mrs J were concerned though  they felt the original tree report must have been 
flawed to have not identified all of the trees which needed removal. They felt removal of all 
the trees near their property should have been recommended. That because that hadnt 
happened their claim had been delayed. Also, as 2023 began there was still not a start date 
for any work to be done and a need for surveying the drains had just arisen. Mr G and Mrs J 
complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In June 2023 HDI issued a final response. It said there had been some delay because a 
second engineers survey had been required and it apologised. HDI said the design phase 
was underway, it would do temporary repairs in the meantime, and advise further once able. 
Mr G and Mrs J remained unhappy. Our Investigator considered their complaint. She felt HDI 
had acted reasonably regarding the trees. But felt it should have organised the drain survey 
sooner. Also that thered been errors made in planning applications. All causing delays. She 
felt its level of communication had also been poor. She felt it should pay £500 compensation. 
HDI agreed. Mr G and Mrs J did not. They felt £500 was unacceptable and unfair. They said 
the loss adjusters had deliberately delayed the claim. This had been very stressful with lots 
of inconvenience caused, for example, when there had to be a meeting with builders, only 
for that time to have been wasted because work had to be put on hold. But there were so 
many instances of delay and mishandling. They felt £500 was nothing in comparison, and 
would be immaterial to HDI. Overall they noted the claim had continued for three years whilst 
their policy kept renewing and still their property was not repaired. Their complaint was 
passed for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, like our Investigator, I think HDI failed Mr G and Mrs J on this occasion. Its 
very clear to me this claim has gone on for longer than it should have done. But I think my 
view, and that of our Investigator, differs to Mr G and Mrs Js about where the failures were 
in respect of one key point, which is the trees.
Mr G and Mrs J think that all the trees should have been recommended for removal. But how 
trees affect properties is a very technical area  not least as there are a range of differences 
between tree species, including root spread, growth rate, how much and how they take 
water from the soil. As such, even if there are lots of trees near a property, an insurer will 
seek technical advice about removal  not least because taking too many or the wrong trees 
out could be very detrimental for the property. Further, where the policyholder does not own 
the trees, expert evidence is often required to convince third-party owners that their trees are 
causing damage. HDI instructed an expert here. It was reasonable for it to do so and it was 
also reasonable for it to have relied on the experts advice regarding which trees it put 
forward to the local authority to remove. I havent seen anything flawed in respect of the tree 
assessment or anything which I think might equate to a negligent consideration.
I note the recommended trees were removed relatively quickly by the local authority. Whilst 
they removed more elsewhere in the neighbourhood, I dont know why that was. The fact 
more were removed elsewhere doesnt mean HDIs approach, or the findings of its expert, 
regarding the trees affecting Mr G and Mrs Js property, were flawed. I note that once the 
initially recommended trees were removed HDI moved to arrange a schedule of works whilst 
also keeping monitoring for a time. I think that was a pragmatic and reasonable decision. 
Had the property stabilised that would, in theory, have avoided further delay. Unfortunately, 
here the further monitoring showed the property was still moving. I note HDI acted quickly at 
that time to get a further tree report and continue monitoring before reverting to the local 
authority to try and get further trees removed. I think that was reasonable.
Where I think HDI failed Mr G and Mrs J was that when it moved to resolving the movement 
with an engineered decision, errors were made with planning applications and a drain survey 
wasnt initially undertaken. I dont doubt that delayed things and was the main cause for no 
real progress being made with the repairs between June 2022 and June 2023. I accept that 
was very frustrating.
Im also mindful that, throughout, the level of communication from HDI has been poor. Its 
often been left to Mr G and Mrs J to chase for updates. I accept that with the claim on-going, 
and concerns having been raised about HDIs actions regarding the trees, the general lack 
of communication was very worrying and upsetting. I accept that has caused a drain on 
family time as reported because more effort has had to be put into the claim than would have 
been needed if it had been managed more efficiently (avoiding delays) and effectively (with 
better communication). 
This has clearly been very difficult for Mr G and Mrs J. I can quite understand why they think 
things have gone really wrong and the claim just hasnt progressed. I know that they feel 
theres likely been something deliberate behind all of that. But subsidence claims, 
particularly where long periods of monitoring are required, do tend to take longer to resolve 
than most property claims. And I can assure Mr G and Mrs J that I have seen nothing which 
makes me think HDI has acted deliberately to delay things. Importantly I have to separate 
the upset suffered because of the naturally on-going claim from that caused by what I accept 
to be failures of HDI. I then award compensation which takes into account our approach to such awards and other awards made in similar circumstances. Taking all that into account, 
Im satisfied that £500 compensation is fair and reasonable.  
Putting things right
I require HDI to pay Mr G and Mrs J £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require HDI Global Speciality SE to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman