DRN-2460124
The complaint
This complaint is about a Scottish Widows-branded equity release mortgage Mr and Mrs C 
took out in 2007 with Lloyds Bank PLC. Mr and Mrs C, represented here by their daughter, 
complain that Lloyds should not have lent them the money.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current position and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mr and Mrs C took the mortgage out in 2007; they did so on a no advice basis; that is, 
without receiving a recommendation to do so from either Lloyds or a third-party financial 
advisor. However, their solicitor provided a certificate, signed by Mr and Mrs C, to confirm 
hed explained the terms and conditions of the mortgage to them, and they were happy to 
proceed with it.
In 2019, after a friend questioned the suitability of the mortgage for them, Mr and Mrs C 
complained that the mortgage shouldnt have been provided. Two main reasons were given:
the interest rate was too high; and
the mortgage wasnt suitable for their needs and circumstances.
Lloyds objected to us considering the first element of the complaint on the grounds it was 
time-barred under our rules. Mr and Mrs C accepted this and our investigator focussed on 
the second reason for the complaint. However, he wasnt persuaded Lloyds had done 
anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs C have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint against Lloyds is that the mortgage should not have been provided, because 
it wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs and circumstances. However, this was a 
non-advised sale; that is, one where it was for the borrowers to make their own judgement 
on the suitability of the mortgage for them. 
Mr and Mrs C say they were vulnerable and shouldnt have been allowed to proceed without 
guidance and advice. In assessing that argument, I cant consider it in the context of todays 
regulatory requirements. I can only consider it against the standards the regulator set in 
2007. At that time, there was nothing remotely unusual about people taking mortgages 
without financial advice. And, of course, I have to keep in mind that Mr and Mrs C did have 
the benefit of legal advice, from their own solicitor, who certified that hed made sure they 
understood what they were agreeing to.
Lloyds has a duty to lend responsibly, and to meet that duty, it assesses an application on 
the applicants ability to afford monthly payments and the risk that the money lent might not 
be repaid. However, this was an equity release mortgage; it required no monthly payments, 
so affordability wasnt an issue. 
Also, because this was an equity release mortgage, the risk of it not being repaid altogether 
was minimal. It is, by design, a type of loan that is expected to be repaid from the sale of the 
property after the last surviving borrower has either died or been required by circumstance to 
move into residential care. 
Mr and Mrs Cs daughter says theyre not looking to have the mortgage annulled, merely 
re-negotiated with a settlement figure based on a lower interest rate. Theres no reason why 
I could fairly expect Lloyds to change the terms of the contract by substituting a lower rate 
than Mr and Mrs C agreed to at the outset. But in any event, as Ive explained, their 
mortgage isnt one that needs to be repaid unless the last surviving borrower has either died 
or moved into residential care. 
It can be repaid sooner and for other reasons than those Ive set out above. And here I note 
Lloyds has confirmed that if Mr and Mrs C were to secure a new equity release mortgage 
elsewhere on a lower rate, thered be no early repayment charge due on redemption of the 
current mortgage, simply a fixed administration fee of £100. That seem perfectly fair and 
reasonable to me.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman