DRN-2759277
The complaint
Mr P is a director of a limited company, N. He complains on the companys behalf about the 
service received from Lloyds Bank PLC when defending N against a chargeback.
 
They are represented throughout by a third party who Ill call S, however for ease Ill refer to 
N throughout the decision.
What happened
N is a vehicle dealership and in early August 2019, they received a call from a consumer 
who wanted to purchase a car over the phone. N took the payment details and before 
agreeing to the sale contacted Lloyds for authorisation that the sale was ok to progress. 
Lloyds confirmed authorisation and the following day the car was released to a delivery 
driver who had come to collect the car as agreed.
A couple of months later, N received a letter from Lloyds saying that there had been a 
chargeback submitted against them, and they had debited the £5,395 from Ns account. 
Lloyds also asked if N could provide information about the transaction. 
N contacted Lloyds to provide the information and asked that the money was returned to 
their account as soon as possible. They also explained that they had contacted Lloyds 
before accepting the payment. 
N were unhappy as it had taken several months for the chargeback to take place, but they 
forwarded Lloyds the information they had from the sale, including the invoice to the third 
party who had purchased the car, and the driving licence of the delivery driver. They also 
asked Lloyds to provide them with a copy of the authorisation call theyd had with them 
before releasing the car. 
After several months the chargeback hadnt been reversed so N raised a complaint with 
Lloyds. They asked Lloyds to provide a copy of the authorisation call recording and the 
transcript of the call. But despite numerous requests to Lloyds, this still wasnt provided. 
In late January 2020, Lloyds wrote to N to say they werent upholding the complaint. They 
said the car purchase transaction had been reported as fraudulent by the cardholder, so a 
chargeback had been raised. They said that theyd received the information from N and sent 
this to the issuing bank and disputed the chargeback. But the issuing bank had upheld the 
chargeback in favour of the card holder. 
They also said that whilst N had called them for authorisation before releasing the car, this 
wasnt a guarantee of payment  and referred N to the terms and conditions of Card Not 
Present (CNP) transactions.  
N didnt think this was fair and asked this service to look into the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She said that she wasnt able 
to look at some of the points N had requested as they related to complaint handling and 
were therefore outside the service remit. 
She also said that she was satisfied Lloyds had followed the chargeback process correctly 
and provided the card holders issuing bank with the evidence N had given and they didnt 
agree. She noted that Lloyds had tried to dispute the fraud chargeback but when the dispute 
was declined, they couldnt do anything more.
 
N didnt agree. They wanted Lloyds to show why the third-party card issuer had declined the 
chargeback and when this had happened. They felt it was unreasonable for Lloyds not to 
provide the call or a transcript from the August call and they also felt that none of the 
chargeback claim reasons would be applicable in the circumstances. 
The investigator explained to N that Lloyds could only present the evidence to the 
cardholders issuing bank and it would be the issuing bank who would decide if the 
chargeback would be upheld  not Lloyds. She also said that she was unable to comment on 
whether the chargeback should have been raised and that the chargeback scheme provider 
no longer held the evidence of the case, so she was unable to confirm this. 
She said she felt Lloyds terms and conditions were clear about the risks of CNP 
transactions, so she didnt think Lloyds were responsible for telling N whether or not to 
proceed with the transaction. N remained unhappy so they asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint, and the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
My role here is to decide whether I think Lloyds made a mistake in how it processed a 
chargeback request against N by one of their customers. And having looked at all the 
evidence thats been provided, I dont think they did. 
A chargeback is the process by which payment disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants, under the relevant card scheme rules. So, in certain circumstances a 
customer may ask their card issuer to reverse payments made on their card  for example 
where the consumer said they didnt make the transaction.
If a chargeback is raised, theres no guarantee a consumer will receive a refund because it 
may be defended by the merchant in line with the relevant card scheme rules. Chargebacks 
are decided based on the card scheme's rules, not the relative merits of a 
cardholder/merchant dispute. 
Ive looked at the Cardnet operating manual and Ive seen that under the security section, 
and chargebacks sub-heading it says, When we receive a chargeback from a card issuer, 
we will normally debit your bank account and let you know accordinglywe will defend 
(reverse) the chargeback, if possible, but reversal is dependent upon the card issuers 
agreement. It also says, We will do our best to help you defend a chargeback. 
So, Lloyds role here was to defend the chargeback raised against N and consider if Ns 
defence complied with the relevant chargeback rules. However, the decision is ultimately 
made by the cardholders issuing bank in line with the relevant rules. 
N have told us they dont feel any of the chargeback codes are applicable to this case and 
they were unhappy that Lloyds didnt tell them when the chargeback had been applied. 
Lloyds have told us that the chargeback code applied to the dispute was 1040 which is 
Fraud/card absent environment. The code would have been applied by the cardholder issuing bank based on the information 
provided. And based on the circumstances of the case it seems reasonable, so I dont think 
Lloyds have done anything wrong by attempting to defend the chargeback against this. 
N have also told us they were unhappy that Lloyds werent able to provide them with either a 
copy of the call or the transcript of the call that they made when asking for authorisation for 
the payment. However, Lloyds have told us that this call wasnt made to the Cardnet team 
but a different department in the bank which is why they were unable to provide this. They 
have told us the authorisation code which was given on the call, but they have advised this 
authorisation is only based on basic account information at that time. 
I recognise that its frustrating for N that the details of the call arent available, but I dont 
think this would make a difference here. I say this because Ive looked at the Cardnet 
operating manual which says Authorisation does not confirm the identity or authority of the 
cardholder and therefore is not a guarantee of payment. It confirms the funds are available 
on the account and that the card has not been reported lost or stolen at that time. It also 
says, A transaction will also be regarded as invalid and may be charged back to you ifThe 
transaction is a Card Not Present sale and is disputed by the cardholder and/or card issuer. 
So even though Lloyds provided the authorisation on the call with N, they could only provide 
agreement that at the specific time of the call, the card wasnt stolen and there were funds 
available. And I think its clear in the terms and conditions that if N released the car using a 
card not present transaction, that they would be liable if a successful chargeback was 
raised against them.
 
Ive also looked at the VISA rules under Dispute condition 10.4: Other Fraud  Card Absent 
Environment  Pre-Arbitration Processing Requirements and it says that for a dispute to be 
processed, the Issuer must provide certification that the cardholder denies authorisation of 
or participation in the Transaction. And for the Acquirer  in this case Lloyds - to provide a 
defence against the chargeback, the following one of the following needs to be provided:
Evidence that one of the following:
A credit or Reversal issued by the Merchant was not addressed by the Issuer 
in the Dispute.
The Dispute is invalid.
The Cardholder no longer disputes the Transaction.
Compelling Evidence
In this case, the only option available to Lloyds was to provide compelling evidence 
provided by N to the issuer to try and defend the case on Ns behalf. I recognise Ns 
comments that they have been a victim of fraud, and that they feel the cardholder could have 
committed this fraud and received the car without paying for it. However, there isnt enough 
evidence to show that the cardholder was the person who actually ordered and received the 
car or that they werent telling the truth about this  and its possible they were also the victim 
of fraud. 
I say this because N havent provided any evidence to show that the car was actually 
delivered to the card holder, and from the evidence provided it was also a different person 
who actually picked up the car. So its also possible that the cardholders details were 
obtained elsewhere and that someone was posing as them when making the transaction  
and there is no proof that this was done with the cardholders consent.
Ive looked at the evidence N provided to Lloyds to defend the chargeback, and Lloyds case 
notes and Im satisfied that they put the evidence forward to the issuer bank. However, 
Lloyds cant be held responsible if the evidence wasnt compelling enough. Based on the information N provided, there is no evidence that the cardholder ordered the car, other than 
his personal details were used. 
So I think Lloyds did try to defend the chargeback on Ns behalf, but it was rejected as there 
wasnt enough evidence to prove the cardholder had made the transaction. So the 
chargeback was upheld by the issuer bank.
  
I recognise that N has lost both a car and significant amount of money, and that my decision 
will be very disappointing for them as its not the outcome they were hoping for. However 
whilst I acknowledge N comments about being a victim of fraud, their complaint is in relation 
to how Lloyds have treated them under the chargeback scheme rules - which is what I have 
to look at. And based on these rules I dont think Lloyds have acted unreasonably so I wont 
be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman