DRN-3216542
The complaint
Mr W complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
landlord insurance policy, for storm damage.
What happened
Due to internal damp at the property, the estate agent arranged for a builder to inspect the 
roof. The builder found the guttering had come away and slipped tiles.
Mr W made a claim on his landlord insurance policy for storm damage. AXA didnt appoint a 
surveyor until about six weeks later, and by then the repairs had already been undertaken. 
Mr W says he couldnt leave the damage unrepaired given he had tenants. The eventual 
repairs included the replacement of six tiles, guttering and fall pipes. 
The surveyor reported there werent storm conditions, and there wasnt evidence of storm 
damage. The surveyor concluded the damage had been caused by age related wear and 
tear, and the claim was declined.
Mr W complained about the claim delays, service and claim decision. AXA paid Mr W £75 
compensation for the claim delays, but it maintained its claim decision. 
Mr W brought his complaint to our service, but one of our investigators thought the claim 
decision and £75 compensation was fair. Mr W asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws policy covers storm. As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that 
need to be met before this service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. 
Those are: 
Was there a storm?
Is the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?  
I have reassessed Mr Ws complaint, and all the evidence, with these three questions in 
mind.
Mr Ws policy doesnt define what a storm is. So, when reviewing the local weather records, 
Ive kept in mind our general approach. 
Mr W was notified of the internal damage on 10 February 2021, and he points towards storm 
Darcy occurring shortly before. For completeness, Ive checked the weather records from a 
nearby weather station, for the four weeks before 10 February 2021. Having done so, no 
storm force winds were recorded. The highest wind speed was 41mph.
I acknowledge there was a high level of rainfall on 6 February 2021. However, I havent seen 
anything that leads me to believe the external damage was caused by rainfall or the damage 
was typical of that caused by rainfall  guttering and tiles should be able to withstand rainfall. 
So, in the absence of storm force winds, I consider it more likely than not, that the high level 
of rainfall simply highlighted existing maintenance related issues and those issues were the 
main cause of the damage. This means Im persuaded that AXAs decision to decline the 
external damage was fair.
Even if the internal damage was caused suddenly during the high level of rainfall, the main 
cause would still be the maintenance related issues, rather than a storm. As such, Im also 
persuaded that AXAs decision to decline the internal damage, under the storm coverage, 
was fair. As noted by AXAs surveyor, the internal damage cant be considered under the 
optional accidental damage cover, because Mr W hadnt taken this out. 
Mr W has set out his frustration at the delays and service. He also says, had AXA arranged 
for the damage to be inspected before he completed the repairs, then the claim outcome 
would have been different. 
I understand Mr Ws frustration at the delays and service issues, and I accept his reasons for 
going ahead with the repairs. However, I havent seen anything that leads me to believe the 
claim would have succeeded, had an inspection been completed before the repairs. As 
explained, there were no storm force winds in the area, around the date in question.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ws submissions about the six-week delay and the customer 
service he received during this period. But, bearing in mind I dont consider the delay 
impacted the claim outcome, overall, I consider £75 to be fair compensation for the 
inconvenience he suffered.
Mr W says AXAs initial complaint response was misleading. He says, in addition to the £75 
compensation for the delays, he understood his claim would be paid. I acknowledge AXAs 
first complaint response letter was brief and it failed to comment on the claim outcome, but 
Ive not seen Mr W was told his claim would be paid. Nonetheless, even if I were to accept 
that AXA caused confusion when first dealing with the complaint, this doesnt lead me to 
conclude AXA should pay the claim or increase the compensation.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman