DRN-1486389
 
Complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in 2012 in connection with a credit card. Mrs L says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital 
One) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think Capital One made it clear that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Capital 
One has told us the PPI was sold on the phone when Mrs L called them to activate 
her credit card. Although Capital One doesnt have a call recording of the sale, it has 
given us a copy of the call script that is likely to have been used at the time of the 
sale. This made it clear that PPI was to be presented as optional and that the 
representative would have had to get Mrs Ls consent before PPI could be applied to 
the account. Although I appreciate what Mrs L has told us, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to say that the representative didnt follow the script.
 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs L got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. 
 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs 
L.
 But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Capital One got a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs L about that. 
Because Capital One didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman