DRN-3476276
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain about Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) under 
their home insurance policy. They are unhappy at the offer made by Gresham to replace a 
diamond ring which was damaged.
Gresham uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. References to Gresham in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T owned a diamond ring that they wanted re-sized. However, during the 
process a chip was noticed in the diamond, so they contacted Gresham to make a claim for 
replacement of the ring under their contents insurance policy. Gresham said their jewellery 
supplier (H) could replace the diamond with one of equivalent quality and repair the ring 
(subject to a £100 excess). However, Mr T and Mrs T said theyd prefer a cash settlement, 
as they were planning to visit a country where they could select their own diamond.
Gresham subsequently offered a cash settlement of £13,144 for the ring (after deduction of 
the £100 excess), based on what would have been the cost to them of H replacing the ring. 
Mr T and Mrs T were unhappy at the offer as theyd previously had the ring valued by a 
jeweller (in 2012) at £18,100. Mr T and Mrs T then complained to Gresham, saying the cash 
settlement offered was too low.
Gresham didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they referred to the policy terms 
and conditions that provided for the replacement of the ring or, where they agreed to offer a 
cash settlement, they would only pay what it would have cost them to replace the item (as 
new). Based on this, they confirmed the cash settlement offer of £13,144.
Unhappy at Greshams final response, Mr T and Mrs T complained to this service. As well as 
being unhappy at the cash settlement offered, Mr T and Mrs T said when they initially bought 
the ring (in 2006), the certificate stated the diamond was, in terms of its clarity1, a VS2 
stone. When they had the ring valued in 2012, the valuation said the diamond clarity was 
SI1 (being lower clarity). They didnt think anything of the difference until they made their 
claim to Gresham, when they offered to replace the diamond at an SI1 valuation of £19,063 
rather than a VS2 valuation of £22,951. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Gresham acted fairly. He thought 
theyd acted in line with the policy in offering a cash settlement based on what it would have 
cost them to replace the ring as new. He also thought the cash settlement offer reflected the 
discount Gresham would receive from H. On the difference in clarity of the diamond between 
1 Diamond clarity refers to the purity and rarity of the stone, and the degree to which it presents imperfections 
and flaws during the natural forming of the stone. A qualitative grading system is used to assign a clarity grade 
to each diamond. The lower the number of imperfections and flaws in a diamonds aesthetic appearance, the 
higher the clarity grade. The grading runs (lowest to highest clarity) from: Slightly Included (SI); Very Slightly 
Included (VS); Very Very Slightly Included (VVS); Internally Flawless (IF); to Flawless (FL).
the two valuations, the investigator thought that was an issue for Mr T and Mrs T to take up 
with the respective jewellers who provided the valuations.
Mr T and Mrs T disagreed with the investigators view and requested an Ombudsman review 
the complaint  They said they felt they werent in the same position as when they bought the 
ring, as any replacement would be selected by H and not their personal choice. They also 
felt the discrepancy in the bases of valuation of the diamond (its clarity) was significant and 
they werent being offered a replacement based on the original valuation [clarity] of the 
diamond. They also remained unhappy at the cash settlement offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Gresham has acted fairly towards Mr T and Mrs T. 
The key issue for Mr T and Mrs T in their complaint is that they believe Greshams cash 
settlement offer is too low, compared to the replacement valuations offered by H (£19,063 
for SI1 and £22,951 for VS2). They are also unhappy that the replacement valuation isnt 
based on the original valuation certificate (which was on the higher, VS2 clarity grade). 
Greshams say theyve followed the terms and conditions of the policy in, firstly, offering to 
replace the ring with an equivalent ring through their suppliers (H). And, secondly, in offering 
a cash settlement based on what it would have cost them to replace the item (as new).
In considering this issue, Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions. Under the heading 
Contents Conditions theres a section 2. Settling Claims that states:
We can choose to settle your claim by:
replacing;
reinstating;
repairing; 
payment.
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent 
available in the current market. 
If we are able to replace property, but we agree to make a cash settlement, we will 
only pay you what it would cost us to replace the item as if it were new.
Gresham first offered to replace the ring, using a replacement diamond of similar size, colour 
and clarity based on the most recent valuation (in 2012). The replacement diamond would 
be placed in the original ring, which would be repaired and reshaped to hold the replacement 
diamond. This was the basis for the replacement cost figure of £19,063 (based on a 
diamond of SI1 clarity). At Mr T and Mrs Ts request, they provided an equivalent 
replacement cost using a diamond of VS2 clarity (£22,951). In seeking to replace (the 
diamond) and repair (the ring) Ive concluded they were acting in accordance with the above 
terms and conditions of the policy. That is, a like for like basis. As such, I think that was fair 
and reasonable.
However, Mr T and Mrs T said they would prefer a cash settlement so they could select a 
stone of their choosing while on a trip they were planning overseas. I can understand this is 
their preference. In the circumstances, the policy terms and conditions set out above provide 
for a cash settlement (where Gresham agree, as they were willing to do in this case). But the terms and conditions also clearly state that Gresham would only base a cash settlement on 
what it would cost them to replace the item (as new). 
Because insurers have agreements with their suppliers, theyre able to negotiate discounts 
which significantly reduce the cost to them of replacing items. Consequently, cash 
settlements are based on these discounted costs. I dont think thats unreasonable as a 
principle. In this case the difference is significant. While I can understand Mr T and Mrs Ts 
unhappiness at the difference, I cant conclude that its unfair or unreasonable, given its in 
line with the policy terms and conditions.
On the point about the difference in the clarity grade between the two valuations, I can 
understand Mr T and Mrs Ts concern given the difference in replacement valuations based 
on the SI1 (£19,063) and the VS2 (£22,951) gradings. My understanding is that Greshams 
cash settlement figure was based on the replacement cost of £19.063 (which itself was 
based on the more recent (2012) valuation, which assessed the clarity as SI1). Ive not seen 
any explanation for the difference in clarity grading. However, as noted above the clarity 
grading system is a qualitative one, which means its down to the judgement of the valuer 
assessing the stones clarity. As such, it may vary between valuers. Id also have expected 
Mr T and Mrs T to have queried the difference between the two clarity gradings at the time of 
the 2012 valuation.
Also, when looking at the two valuation certificates, Ive also noted the size of the diamond 
appears to differ. In the first valuation (when the ring was purchased) the size of the diamond 
is stated to be 1.37 carats. But in the second valuation its stated to be 1.50 carats. Again, 
its not clear why there is a difference. Im not aware of what difference this may make to the 
value of the diamond - but all other things being equal, Id expect a higher carat figure to 
lead to a higher valuation. 
As the second valuation is based on a higher carat figure (but a lower clarity grade) then Id 
expect the two differences to counteract each other (at least to some degree). That is, a 
larger carat figure would increase the value of the diamond, but a lower clarity grading would 
reduce it. But Ive noted H has used the higher carat figure in its replacement valuation (but 
both clarity gradings) so I think thats reasonable in the absence of a third assessment of the 
diamonds clarity. 
In addition, Mr T and Mrs Ts policy schedule includes the diamond ring as a specified 
personal belonging (given its high value). For the policy schedule applicable at the time of 
the claim being made, the value of the ring is listed as £19,800. That means the ring is 
covered against damage, loss (or theft) up to that value. So, in basing as replacement on the 
SI1 valuation (£19,063) Gresham were acting within the limit of the ring as a specific 
personal belonging under the terms of the policy. I think thats reasonable.
Taking all these factors into account, Ive concluded Gresham havent acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr T and Mrs Ts 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman