DRN-4396972
The complaint
Mr R and Mr S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr R and Mr S are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around July 2015, Mr R and Mr S were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr R and Mr S decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In March 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr R and Mr Ss behalf under section 75 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr R and Mr S to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and reduction in bills would provide enough income to cover 
the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr R and Mr S or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. But it did offer £200 compensation for 
delays in complaint handling. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had led Mr R and Mr S 
to believe the system would be immediately self-funding. But they did think the system had 
underperformed compared to Ps estimates from the point of sale. They added that the 
estimates regarding the annual generation, FIT payments and electricity savings would have 
induced Mr R and Mr S into entering the contract. So, they felt this aspect of the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Shawbrook initially didnt agree to our investigators view of the complaint. Shawbrook carried 
out an inspection of the system, which showed the system was not faulty and was working 
as it was designed to  although it was generating less energy than had been estimated at 
the time of sale. At this time, Shawbrook was informed that P had installed 3 fewer panels 
than Mr R and Mr S had been sold when they agreed to purchase the system, as P couldnt 
fit the full 14 panels on their roof. While P gave Mr R and Mr S a refund for the cost of the 3 
panels, it did not inform them of the consequence of having fewer panels, and what impact 
this would have on the systems ability to generate power  and the associated financial 
benefits. Shawbrook therefore agreed to pay Mr R and Mr S the difference between what the 
system had generated and what P had estimated the system would generate at the time of 
sale.
Our investigator agreed with Shawbrooks offer in principle as an appropriate way to put 
matters right  but wanted to ensure the calculation took account of both the loss they had 
suffered to date, as well as the loss they likely will suffer during the original loan term. 
Shawbrook did not reply and, as it wasnt clear whether its offer had included any future 
losses, the case was passed to me to decide. Mr R and Mr S (nor their representative) have 
made no additional comments. 
In my provisional decision of 25 September 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding 
the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached a final decision. Neither Shawbrook nor Mr R or Mr S have made any 
further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr R and Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr R and Mr S could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr R and 
Mr S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr R and Mr S say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The cost of the system 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Mr R and Mr S have said that the cost of the system was documented as £11,365.20. They 
have indicated that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £21,859.20.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr R and Mr S were told that the cost of the system was 
£11,365.20. The quote and credit agreement both set this out clearly. The credit agreement 
also goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £21,859.20.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £120.06. But I note 
Mr R and Mr Ss monthly payment is marginally different at £121.44  but I dont think this 
difference make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. And Im also satisfied that 
the two documents, the quote and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost 
of the system was £11,365.20, it would cost Mr R and Mr S more than this as they had 
decided to pay for it with an interest-bearing loan. 
Self-funding 
Mr R and Mr S have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr R and Mr S could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr R and Mr S could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £568.07, which results in an average monthly income of £47.33. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr R and Mr S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £360.01 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr R and Mr S the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £1,276.53. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £120.06 (which is £1,440.72). The credit agreement he subsequently 
signed, shows his monthly payments are marginally higher, so his actual yearly payments 
would be even higher than this. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer was 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and savings 
on energy bills, as the benefits fall short of whats required to meet the payments under the 
loan.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr R and Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the 
loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £120.06. For each year of the 15-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £120.06, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr R and Mr S could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. It clearly sets out that the overall income they could expect to receive by way of 
FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the 
monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that 
the FIT payment would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT income and additional savings.
Im satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting. As a result, I consider the 
salesperson did not make a representation that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at the meeting which sets 
out that there would be a difference between the expected income and the monthly loan 
repayments.
Self-funding over a duration of time 
That said, I do accept that Mr R and Mr S were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr R and Mr 
S could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr R and Mr S that the system would pay for 
itself by year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
This then leads me to consider the performance of the system. 
Underperformance 
So, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract between P and Mr R and Mr S. The original MCS certificate and quote sets out 
that the system is expected to produce 3702 kWh a year. And the benefits shown in the 
quote were calculated based on that level of generation.
I have looked at Mr R and Mr Ss FIT statements and meter reading, and can see that the 
system, on average, has generated 2,645.69 kWh. This is significantly less than estimated 
by P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system isnt performing as expected.
Shawbrook has now explained that the reason the system has underperformed so 
significantly is because P couldnt install the number of panels on the roof that it initially 
anticipated, so the power generated has been lower. My understanding is that P refunded 
the cost of the three panels it was unable to install but didnt provide Mr R and Mr S with any 
details of how this would impact their systems ability to generate. Although I think its 
apparent that the system would generate less, with fewer panels, given the significant 
difference between what the system would generate based on the fewer panels, and the 
estimates on which Mr and Mr S based their decision to purchase the system  I think P 
ought to have made this clear to them. Shawbrook appears to accept this as Shawbrook has 
made an offer to put things right. 
Shawbrook has now provided an updated MCS certificate which shows what the system 
actually installed is expected to generate and the system is performing broadly in line with 
that, so Im satisfied the system isnt faulty. 
However, based on the evidence available to me, I think that P didnt make clear how the 
systems ability to generate electricity would be impacted by the variations made following 
the initial sales meeting. And it didnt explain the consequence of this on the benefits it would 
produce relative to the cost of the loan. I think the estimates made during the sale induced 
Mr R and Mr S into entering into the contract and knowing these estimates could no longer 
be realised would have been important to them. Because of this, I think that Shawbrook 
didnt treat Mr R and Mr S fairly and they have lost out because of this. And this means that 
Shawbrook should put things right.
Putting things right
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mr R and Mr S do not suffer 
a financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should
generate roughly what was promised via the sales paperwork and the original MCS 
certificate throughout the original duration of the loan, even if the loan has been repaid early. 
Shawbrooks offer may already include this, but it hasnt provided a breakdown of how its 
offer was calculated, so I cannot assess whether its offer is in line with our usual approach 
to these types of cases. 
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mr R and Mr S and what the sales paperwork set out 
as being the annual total income savings, 
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mr R and Mr S
The finance agreement in question was due to end in 2030. To ensure that Mr R and Mr S 
dont lose out going forward, Shawbrook should then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume 
that the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of 
the finance agreement
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the 
conclusion of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction 
identified in c) above
e) pay Mr R and Mr S the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) 
above and the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
I can see Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and I 
think thats a fair offer and Shawbrook should pay this to Mr R and Mr S. Other 
Mr R and Mr S have said they dont believe that Shawbrook carried out sufficient credit 
checks. Shawbrook has provided details of the assessment it carried out and it doesnt look 
like Mr R and Mr S have struggled to repay this loan. So, as it doesnt look like the loan was 
unaffordable, I dont think Shawbrook needs to do anything about this now. 
Neither Shawbrook nor Mr R or Mr S have made any comments. So, in the absence of any 
new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out 
in my provisional decision. 
So overall having again carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this 
complaint, Im satisfied that P made it clear that the system wouldnt be immediately self-
funding. However, in this case, I do think P ought to have made clear the consequence of 
installing fewer panels, mainly, that this would result in the system generating significantly 
less energy than P had estimated at the point of sale (and the impact of this on the financial 
returns they can expect). Im satisfied that Mr R and Mr S relied on the estimates P made 
during the sale and bought the system on that basis, and the system actually installed was 
not broadly in line with what was sold to them. So, I think they lost out because of what 
Shawbrook did, and it should therefore put things right. 
Putting things right
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mr R and Mr S do not suffer 
a financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should
generate roughly what was promised via the sales paperwork and the original MCS 
certificate throughout the original duration of the loan, even if the loan has been repaid early. 
As explained above, Shawbrooks offer may already include this, but as it hasnt provided a 
breakdown of how its offer was calculated, I cannot assess whether its offer is in line with 
our usual approach to these types of cases. 
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mr R and Mr S and what the sales paperwork set out 
as being the annual total income savings, 
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mr R and Mr S
The finance agreement in question was due to end in 2030. To ensure that Mr R and Mr S 
dont lose out going forward, Shawbrook should then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume 
that the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of 
the finance agreement
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the 
conclusion of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction 
identified in c) above
e) pay Mr R and Mr S the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) 
above and the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
I can see Shawbrook has offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. I 
think thats a fair offer and Shawbrook should pay this to Mr R and Mr S. My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman