DRN-3026419
The complaint
Mr J complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly gave him 
loans which he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about the following loans provided by Mr Lender to Mr J:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Loan amount Highest 
monthly 
repayment
1 07/07/2015 03/09/2015 6 £400.00 £143.46
2 26/11/2015 29/12/2015 3 £270.00 £165.60
3 30/12/2015 01/06/2016 6 £380.00 £151.49
4 01/06/2016 04/07/2018 12 £1,500.00 £320.75
Mr J said that his Mr Lender loans affected his mental health and he felt he was in a 
downward spiral of debt and he struggled to get by financially. After taking out loan 4, and 
before his first monthly repayment was due, I understand that Mr J entered into a formal debt 
management plan. 
Our adjudicator felt it wasnt unfair for Mr Lender to have provided loans 1, 2 and 3 - but she 
felt that Mr Lender shouldnt have provided loan 4 to Mr J. 
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for a review. The complaint came to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Js complaint. 
Mr Lender has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr J. It asked him for details 
of his income and normal expenditure. And Mr Lender carried out checks on Mr Js credit 
file.
Looking at each of the loans in turn, I agree with the adjudicator that on the basis of the 
information Mr J told Mr Lender about his income and outgoings and what Mr Lender had 
recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to give him loans 1, 2 
and 3. 
It was early in the lending relationship and given the loan amounts and the information 
Mr Lender had recorded for Mr J, I think the checks were enough for Mr Lender to agree to 
lend. As Mr J hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to 
these loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
I've taken into account that Mr Lender felt that Mr J had a plausible reason for taking out 
loan 4 (he said it was to pay for a special holiday) and so considered its checks were 
proportionate in the circumstances. But I disagree.
Looking at loan 4, I can see that this was a substantial loan amount and by far the largest 
amount Mr J had asked to borrow  almost four times the amount he had first taken out 
almost a year earlier. 
Based on what Mr J had told Mr Lender about his living arrangements and his financial 
situation, Mr Lender understood that he had ample disposable income each month and only 
limited responsibility for the usual household costs. So, given Mr Js apparent ongoing and 
increasing need for expensive credit I think Mr Lender should by now have realised that 
Mr Js borrowing history seemed to be at odds with what Mr J had told Mr Lender about his 
circumstances. Bearing in mind that he was signing up to repay this large and expensive 
loan over the next 12 months, I think Mr Lender should have done more in-depth checks.I appreciate that Mr Lender carried out its own credit checks  and I've noted the information 
it obtained. I've taken into account also that it asked Mr J some direct questions about his 
finances and how he intended to use the loan and that Mr J may not have provided accurate 
information in response to those enquiries. But this doesnt change my overall view because 
I think Mr Lender should have done more to ensure that it had a proper understanding of 
Mr Js financial situation by the time he took out this loan. Mr Lender hasnt shown me that it 
did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to lend 
loan 4 to Mr J. 
Ive looked at the information Mr J has provided to this Service to help me understand what 
Mr Lender is likely to have found out had it done proportionate checks before agreeing to 
provide this loan.  
Looking at the credit file Mr J has provided, I think Mr Lender should have discovered that he 
was facing serious problems managing his money. I think it would have learned that Mr J 
already had multiple loans outstanding with other short term lenders when he took out loan 4 
(I can see at least six loans were outstanding during the loan application process). To my 
mind, that information alone wouldve been sufficient for Mr Lender to have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided this loan.  
In addition, I think Mr Lender ought also to have realised that Mr J was already spending 
such a significant proportion of his take home pay servicing debt that it wasnt likely this loan 
would be sustainably affordable for him over the loan term  irrespective of the fact that the 
first monthly repayment was the highest and the loan repayments reduced over the loan 
term. 
I say this because when he asked for loan 4, Mr Lenders records show it relied on 
information showing that Mr Js income was £1,250. 
The monthly repayment he needed to make when he took out this loan (around £320) 
worked out at around a quarter of his take home pay just for this loan alone  and hed have 
to meet the contractual repayment schedule hed signed up to for this loan for 12 months, on 
top of his other credit.
Even though it looks to me like Mr J used this loan to repay some of his other high cost 
loans, the combined monthly repayments on the remaining loans of around £774 per month, 
plus the loan repayments he had signed up to make on this loan meant that Mr J would likely 
be spending more than 70% of his take home pay servicing just this expensive debt. So this 
doesnt affect my overall view. 
Mr Lender ought to have realised that the repayment Mr J had to make to pay loan 4 meant 
that his credit costs were such a significant proportion of his spending money each month 
that in reality, this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him. 
So Mr Lender shouldnt have provided it to Mr J. And for these reasons, Im upholding Mr Js 
complaint about loan 4.
I dont think Mr Lender acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J any other way. When it 
became aware that he was seeking help to set up a debt management agreement Mr Lender 
took action straightaway to freeze interest on the account for 30 days. It then responded to 
contact from Mr Js debt management agent by offering a discount of £1,131.20  so that 
this loan cost Mr J just £195.75, which is a very substantial reduction in the amount of 
interest he was potentially liable to pay under the loan agreement. So Im not planning on telling Mr Lender to pay any additional redress over and above what 
Ive set out below. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr J is happy with what I've said in my provisional decision and has nothing further to add.
Mr Lender still disagrees. In summary, it said it built a more detailed picture of Mr Js 
financial situation prior to agreeing the loan which still looked sustainably affordable for him 
over the loan term after allowing for his other credit committments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Mr Lender that I've thought carefully about everything again 
before coming to my final decision. And whilst I have summarised above what seem to me to 
be the main points of concern theyve raised, I have read thoroughly and taken into account 
everything they have asked me to reconsider.  
Mr Lender hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a 
bearing on the outcome. I appreciate that Mr Lender takes a different view to me. But I still 
think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr J, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr J may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr J in a compliant 
way at this time. Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr J would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
So heres what Mr Lender needs to do:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr J towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 4, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr J which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr J the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information Mr Lender has recorded on Mr Js credit file for 
loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Js complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman