DRN-4286129
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his buildings insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C has buildings insurance cover with Aviva. In early February 2020, Mr C says he noticed
water leaking through his roof following a storm. He submitted a claim via his broker to
Aviva. The broker also told Aviva that it considered Mr C to be in a vulnerable position.
Aviva didnt respond to the claim at all. In March 2021, a third party organisation contacted
the broker on Mr Cs behalf to enquire about the claim. The broker in turn, chased Aviva.
Aviva arranged for a surveyor to review the damage. The surveyor attended in April 2021.
He concluded that the internal damage to Mr Cs property was not the result of a specific
storm but a number of progressive maintenance issues. The surveyor also commented on
rooms not being used for their original purpose.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think Aviva was unreasonable in
declining the claim, as she thought it was entitled to rely on the report saying the current
problems with the property are the result of lack of maintenance and Mr C had told her hed
not carried out any maintenance in 13 years.
The Investigator did, however, consider that there had been unreasonable delay by Aviva in
responding to the claim, which had caused Mr C unnecessary and avoidable difficulties, 
including having to live in the property in a state of disrepair. She recommended Aviva pay 
£1,250 compensation for this.
Aviva does not accept that the compensation is justified. It said Mr C had a duty to mitigate
his losses and maintain the property and he didnt do so knowing there was damage. Aviva
also says that Mr C or his broker should have chased it for a response to the claim and we
cannot resolve an issue if we do not know an error has happened. Aviva suggested that
compensation of £500 would be more appropriate.
Mr C does not accept the Investigators assessment either. He has provided photographs
and videos showing his property in good condition prior to the storm (on 8 and 9 February
2020). Mr C says there was no mould in the property until after the storm but there is now a 
significant amount of black mould, which is affecting his health. The surveyor only saw the 
property well over a year after the storm and so there had inevitably been a deterioration in 
that time. Mr C says he had to move his pianos away from the area of water ingress and 
also had to move his tractors inside to the music room to protect them from theft, as his 
fence had fallen down. This is why the rooms are not now being used as previously. 
Mr C also says the Investigator has misunderstood and he did not say he had not carried out 
any maintenance on the property in 13 years; he said the property was newly refurbished 
when he moved in 13 years before the storm. Mr C says the matter has left him distraught 
and in ill health due to the black mould.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on the matter in July 2023, in which I said the following: 
Mr Cs policy provides cover for various events which might cause loss or damage to 
his property, including damage caused by storm. The policy says:
The buildings
Loss of or damage to the buildings caused by any of the following
2. Storm or flood.
Exclusions
Loss of or damage to fences, gates and hedges.
There are no other specific exclusions to the storm damage section of cover. 
However, there is a general condition of the policy that applies to all cover which 
says:
Your duty to prevent loss or damage
You and any other person this insurance applies to must take all reasonable 
precautions to prevent accidents, loss or damage.
All property insured by this policy must be maintained in good condition.
Your policy is intended to cover you against unforeseen events like fire or 
theft. It does not cover wear and tear or damage which happens gradually 
over a period of time.
It is for a claimant to establish they have a valid claim under an insurance policy, so 
this would mean Mr C would have to provide evidence that, on the balance of 
probabilities, his property was damaged as a result of a storm. If Mr C can do this, 
then Aviva is obliged to meet the claim unless it can establish that there ais a 
relevant policy exclusion or condition that would apply. Again this would have to be 
on the balance of probabilities.
Mr C reported the damage to his property in or around mid-February 2020 and said 
this was as a result of a storm on 8 and 9 February 2020.
I have seen evidence that there was a storm in the vicinity of Mr Cs property on 9 
February 2020, with winds of 78mph recorded. This would be enough to dislodge 
roof tiles. And I have also seen the evidence of Mr Cs fence having been blown over 
at the same time.
Avivas surveyor has confirmed that roof tiles slipped around a roof light on the single 
story part of the property above the kitchen and this is where the main ingress of 
water is coming from. He said:
Close inspection reveals that there has been some disturbance of the 
pantilesThe rear main pitch roof lights physically have pantiles displaced 
either side as photos show. There is also a possibility to timber battens may 
have deteriorated which would lead to any roof subsidence. Condition of this 
large kitchen/diner and roof above is the main problem which rear pitched 
roof pantiles are missing/displaced to side of roof lights
The surveyor also said there was:a degree of frost damage, moss and maintenance issues appear to be the 
crux of the matter as no evidence of maintenance is noted[and] that the 
damage claimed is not related to storm damage specific, but a multitude of 
progressive issues, maintenance as a primary factor and the internal damage 
would not have been due to one specific storm event, noting date of loss 
09/02/20 and site visit 13/04/21, 14 months in between, the damage internally 
has only got much worse and progressive.
I do not think the surveyor has explained how the frost damage (which I cannot see 
in the photos provided) or moss has caused the ingress of water to the property. He 
has stated there are missing and displaced roof tiles around the roof light, which is 
where the main ingress of water has been coming from, and once water is able to get 
under the tiles, it will spread to other areas causing damage to underlying felt and 
wooden battons and so on.
It is for Aviva to prove the roof was leaking before the storm and I do not think it has 
been able to do so. Aviva has not provided any convincing evidence that the roof tiles 
had slipped or were displaced prior to the storm or that they were damaged in any 
other way before the storm.
I also do not think that Aviva can reasonably blame the water ingress on lack of
maintenance. Mr C has told us that the roof was around 20 years old and there is no
evidence that it is generally in a poor state of repair. There is some moss on some 
tiles but this does not signify a lack of maintenance or that it is not generally in good 
condition. Most householders would not expect to carry out any roof maintenance on 
a roof of this age. There is no evidence the roof tiles slipped due to wear and tear or 
a gradual event.
The evidence from Mr C is that the roof was sound and kept the property watertight 
until the storm in February 2020 and there is nothing I have seen to cast doubt on 
this. Given all of this, I am satisfied that there was a storm at the relevant time that is 
likely to have caused the damage to Mr Cs roof and allowed water into his property. 
In my opinion, Aviva should therefore meet the cost of repairing the roof under the 
policy.
With regard to the internal damage, Aviva says this is much worse than would have 
been the result of one storm in February 2020. Aviva has refused all cover for the 
internal damage on the basis that it says Mr C had a responsibility to mitigate his loss 
and if he had done so, there would not have been such extensive damage inside his 
property; it cannot attribute the internal state of the property with the one storm in 
February 2020.
I agree entirely that the current condition of the property will not be due to the one 
storm event in February 2020. However, I do not agree with Aviva that this means it 
is not liable for the current condition of the property. The fact is that because the roof 
was not repaired by Aviva in accordance with its duty under the insurance contract 
with Mr C, the property was exposed to damage as it was not watertight. Over the 
period of 14 months before its surveyor attended there would have been continuing 
damage and in the time since Avivas surveyor attended in 2021, it would have 
become even worse.
If Aviva had attended in February 2020 when it should have done, it would have had 
the chance to assess the condition of the property. It did not do so. The only 
evidence about the condition of the property from that time is Mr Cs testimony and 
his photos and videos. While the photos and videos are undated, they show the property in very good condition. And I also bear in mind it was a relatively new barn 
conversion. There is no reason therefore for me to doubt that the property was in 
good repair before the storm.
Aviva also says it is not responsible for all the damage, as Mr C should have had the 
roof fixed himself to stop any further damage, when it did not respond to the claim, 
and Mr C and his broker should have contacted it again to chase up the claim when it 
didnt respond. [I have considered whether] Aviva may have a partial defence to a 
claim for all the current internal damage based on a failure by Mr C to mitigate the 
loss, perhaps by having the roof fixed at some point after he was aware it as leaking 
and Aviva had not contacted him in response to his claim. 
Having considered all the evidence, I do not think it is fair for Aviva to place all 
responsibility on Mr C or his broker to have chased it for a response. While they 
could have done so, the primary failing was on Avivas part, it had a contractual duty 
to Mr C and it completely ignored his claim. Aviva had also been made aware of Mr 
Cs needs, which arguably create a higher expectation, and did nothing to meet its 
obligations to him. 
In addition, Aviva failed to repair the roof in 2021 when it finally responded to the 
claim, so there will have been further water ingress and internal damage as a result 
of that delay.
Mr Cs needs mean he is not in a position to mitigate his loss in the same way that 
we might ordinarily expect. He had made clear in his claim letter he felt vulnerable 
about using tradespeople. And it was only with assistance of a third party 
organisation that the claim was responded to by Aviva in March 2021. And, even if it 
was reasonable to have expected Mr C to do something about the roof at some point 
in the three years since the storm, it is difficult to determine how much internal 
damage is due to the original storm and Avivas delays and how much might have 
been avoided had Mr C repaired the roof at some point since February 2020.
Overall, therefore I consider that Aviva should meet the claim for the roof repairs and 
the internal damage. I also consider that some compensation in addition to the 
meeting of the claim is appropriate. I think Aviva has caused Mr C avoidable and 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience for almost three years. He has been living 
in a property in poor condition, with black mould. Aviva also had an opportunity to 
rectify the matter in March 2021, which would have reduced the impact on Mr C but 
failed to do so. I consider that the sum of £1,500 is appropriate.
Mr C may find dealing with the contractors difficult and Aviva should bear in mind his 
needs when arranging appointments for the work to be done.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to do 
the following:
1. meet Mr Cs claim under the storm section of the policy (subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy); and
2. pay Mr C £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of the claim.
Responses to my provisional decisionAviva does not accept my provisional decision. It says that it accepts the claim was closed in 
error but it was not aware this had happened until March 2021. Aviva says it now agrees to 
the £1,200 compensation recommended by the Investigator for this error. However, it 
maintains that it is not responsible for the damage to the property. 
Aviva says its surveyor confirmed thered been storm conditions at the time of the claim but 
he identified damage, moss and maintenance issues which appear to be the crux of the 
matter. Aviva says there is clear evidence that this damage has been there longer than a 
year, given the amount of moss and that it is growing under many of the tiles which have 
been displaced. Aviva says that moss tends to lift tiles causing them to slip and make them 
more susceptible to high winds; it also holds moisture which will leak into rooms below. 
Aviva also says that the slipped and damaged tiles are not consistent with the pattern of 
damage itd normally see following storm; it is more widespread than it would be from a 
single storm incident and indicates long term wear and tear. 
Finally, Aviva says again that Mr C had a duty to maintain the property and have the roof 
repaired to prevent further damage; it does not agree it was reasonable for him not to do 
anything further about the roof. 
Mr C has also responded. He says he agrees with my decision in the main but wants to add 
that the kitchen units were new prior to the storm and are now splattered with black mould 
and slime since the storm in February 2020. He also says that he has suffered significant 
deterioration of health, including partial paralysis, which he says is due to the mould and 
parasites that have entered his home following the storm. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas surveyor said there were disturbed pantiles around the pitch roof lights. Aviva says 
this is more widespread than it would expect from a single storm but its surveyor did not say 
this. And in any case, it was inspected over a year after the storm so would have been 
subject to further weather events in that time. 
Aviva says its evident by the amount of moss and that there is some growth between and 
under some of the displaced tiles that this was present for over a year prior to its inspection. 
However, its surveyor didnt say this and I am not aware of any evidence to support this 
assertion. The surveyor said there was evidence of frost damage, moss and maintenance 
issues but I cannot see that he said this pre-dated the storm or that there is anything to 
prove that there was water ingress to the property prior to the storm.
Aviva also says the presence of moss would make the tiles more susceptible to lifting during 
a storm. It seems to me equally possible that after tiles were displaced by the storm, it 
allowed moss to grow in the gaps this created. As stated in my provisional decision, given 
that it did not attend in 2020, Aviva has lost the opportunity to prove this. There is no 
evidence that the property was not watertight before the storm in February 2020.Mr C says the water ingress started after the storm in February 2020 and I have no reason 
to doubt that. There is evidence of a storm and Mr C reported the first ingress of water to the 
property shortly after that storm. This all means it is more likely than not in my opinion that 
the property was watertight and the roof was in satisfactory condition (whether there was 
presence of moss or not) and would have continued to be so but for the storm in February 
2002. This means that Mr C has established that he has a valid storm claim under the policy 
and Aviva is responsible for the roof repairs.
Aviva essentially also asserts that it should avoid all liability under the claim because Mr C 
has not taken steps to have the roof repaired himself. 
Aviva is correct that we would normally expect a policyholder to mitigate their loss. However, 
as set out in my provisional decision I think that Mr Cs needs mean he was not in a position 
to mitigate his loss to the same extent we might ordinarily expect. 
Mr C made a claim to the insurer that he had paid to provide him with peace of mind in the 
event of an event such as happened here and Aviva did not fulfil its responsibilities to him. It 
ignored his claim entirely and then when it had an opportunity to put this right in March 2021, 
unreasonably refused the claim
Mr C had made clear in his claim letter he felt vulnerable about using tradespeople and it 
was only with assistance of a third party organisation that the claim was responded to by 
Aviva in March 2021. Aviva also knows nothing about his financial means and whether he 
was in a position to pay for the work himself. I do not therefore think it is fair for Aviva to 
avoid all responsibility, when it has been established in my opinion that there was storm 
damage to the property. 
I also set out in my provisional decision that, even if it was reasonable to have expected      
Mr C to do something about the roof at some point in the time since the storm, it is difficult to 
determine how much internal damage is due to the original storm and Avivas delays and 
how much might have been avoided had Mr C repaired the roof at some point since 
February 2020. Aviva has not responded to this point. 
There was a storm and a lot of rain in February 2020. It was apparently the wettest month in 
the U.K. on record. So even if Mr C could be expected to have taken some action say a 
couple of months after the storm once he realised Aviva had not responded, it seems to me 
that the amount of water entering the property would already have been significant and the 
resultant internal damage extensive.  
Overall, taking account that there would have been significant damage, even if Mr C had the 
roof repaired at some point since the storm, and the fact Aviva failed to respond to the claim 
at all until March 2021 and that it had the chance to put the matter right in March 2021 but 
didnt, I consider that Aviva should meet the claim for the roof repairs and the internal 
damage.
I also still remain of the opinion that some compensation in addition to the meeting of the 
claim is appropriate. I think Aviva has caused Mr C avoidable and unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience for almost three years. He has been living in a property in poor condition, with 
black mould for considerable time. 
Mr C has said this has had a detrimental effect on this health. I do not think there is any 
doubt that living in these conditions would not be good for anyones health. I have not 
however seen any medical evidence that it has caused Mr Cs specific current medical 
problems, so I do not think I can make any additional award for this at this stage. Having taken all the available evidence into account, I remain of the opinion that the sum of 
£1,500 is appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to do the following:
1. meet Mr Cs claim under the storm section of the policy (subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy); and
2. pay Mr C £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman