DRN-1790600
The complaint
Ms H complains HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly defaulted her loan account.
What happened
Ms H held current and loan accounts with HSBC. But in April 2019, HSBC wrote to her and 
explained theyd be closing her accounts in 60 days. After receiving this letter, Ms H opened 
a current account elsewhere, using the switching service. And the payments from her loan 
were made from this new account.
At the end of 2019, Ms H received a letter from a debt collection agency. They explained her 
loan account had been defaulted and that she needed to pay them to clear the outstanding 
balance. Ms H was unhappy this had happened and raised a complaint with HSBC. Ms H 
asked HSBC why her payments had been stopped, and why they hadnt contacted her about 
her loan accounts sooner. Ms H moved address shortly after her current account was closed 
and said shed visited an HSBC branch to drop off a letter with her new address, so they 
should have been able to contact her.
HSBC looked into Ms Hs concerns and issued their final response. In this they explained 
their April 2019 letter explained her account(s) would be closed, so Mrs H should have 
been aware this included her loan account. They also said theyre obligated to send final 
demands in the post, and they had done so to the address they had for her on file. HSBC 
didnt agree theyd received Ms Hs new address before they took steps to default her loan 
account, so they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. 
Ms H remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. When doing so, she 
told us HSBCs advisers had told her she would be able to repay her loan from a new current 
account. She was also unhappy HSBC had refused to check CCTV footage of the day she 
visited the branch to hand in the letter with her new address.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt think Ms Hs complaint should be 
upheld. Our investigator said HSBCs April 2019 letter explained all accounts Ms H held with 
them would have been closed. So, she felt Ms H should have known this included her loan 
account. Our investigator also said she hadnt seen information on any calls between Ms H 
and HSBC after this letter that confirmed the loan would remain open. Our investigator also 
wasnt persuaded HSBC could have changed Ms Hs address when she took her letter in 
branch.
Ms H disagreed with our investigator, so her complaint was passed to me to investigate.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered everything, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. I know this isnt the 
outcome she hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
Ive seen a copy of the letter HSBC sent Ms H in April 2019 when they said her accounts 
would be closed. In particular, it said HSBC no longer wished to provide Ms H with banking 
facilities and her account(s) would be closed in 60 days. The letter went on to say that If 
there is any debit balance on account(s) at the time that we close it, then, although the 
account will be closed for your use, the balance will remain outstanding and we will require 
immediate payment from you to clear it.
I consider this letter clearly explained all of Ms Hs accounts with HSBC would be closed. 
And, if she owed a balance, she would be expected to repay it immediately. However, Ms H 
says she was given information that contradicted this. Ms H has told us that she spoke to an 
HSBC adviser on the phone and was told her payments for her loan could continue from the 
new account she opened with a different bank.
The only call recordings HSBC were able to send us were from February 2019. These 
predated the notice of account closure for Ms H. But I still listened to them, and there was 
nothing in those calls that related to the payment of her loan. As part of my investigation into 
this complaint, I asked Ms H when she discussed payment of her loan with HSBCs adviser. 
However, she didnt provide this information. I also asked HSBC if they had any calls with 
Ms H between sending the April 2019 letter and defaulting her account. HSBC has told us 
there were no calls during this timeframe about Ms H's loans, so I cant rely on that as a 
reason to say HSBC did anything wrong. Given HSBCs April 2019 letter, I am persuaded 
Ms H should have known she needed to make arrangements to repay the outstanding 
balance of her loan in full.
As Im satisfied Ms H needed to repay the full balance of her loan immediately, Ive next had 
to consider whether HSBCs decision to default her account was fair.
Before an account is defaulted, we would expect a bank to write to their customer and 
explain the amount owed, and when payment is due. We would also expect them to clearly 
explain the consumers options, and what will happen if the debt isnt repaid. HSBC has sent 
us copies of the letters it sent to Ms H about her loan account. And they included the 
information detailed above. However, these letters were sent to what we now know was Ms 
Hs former address.
Ms H says that she wrote a letter to HSBC to provide them with her new address. And in 
June 2019, she handed it to a member of staff in an HSBC branch. Ms H provided us with a 
copy of this letter. Having reviewed it Ive seen this letter included her name and new 
address. However, it didnt have any other details Id expect to see to enable HSBC to 
identify which particular customer it belonged to, such as an account number, an address 
HSBC already had on file, telephone number etc. Given the number of people who bank with 
HSBC, and how important it is to keep customer details safe, more information was vital for 
HSBC to be able to identify Ms Hs accounts. I appreciate Ms H may not have recognised 
this fact at the time of writing her letter, but this mistake meant HSBC was unable to update 
her address details.
 
Ms H has also said HSBC were aware of her new address because they needed to send her 
a cheque for the closing balance of her current account. Ms H used the account switching 
service in mid-April 2019 when she opened a new account. At that time her account balance 
was £0, so there were no funds for HSBC to switch. However, in October 2019 HSBC 
received a credit for Ms H from an online retailer. HSBCs notes confirm they had a conversation with Ms H in which a new address was mentioned. And it was agreed for the 
credit to be paid to her electronically.
While I can see Ms H did speak to HSBC about her change of address and receiving funds, 
this happened around two months after her account was defaulted. This was also 
approximately four months after HSBCs first letter that indicated Ms Hs loan account would 
be defaulted if it wasnt repaid in full. So, again, Im still not persuaded HSBC would have 
known Ms Hs new address when they started chasing repayment of her loan. And its for 
that reason I cant fairly say theyre at fault for Ms H not knowing her account may be 
defaulted.
In addition to the above, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest Ms H had the available funds 
to repay her full loan amount in June 2019. And her own testimony suggests this conclusion 
is accurate. So, even if HSBC had updated Ms Hs address in June 2019, I dont consider 
Ms H would have been able to prevent the default. Thats because she didnt have the funds 
available to repay the loan before it was defaulted in August 2019.
I appreciate defaulting an account can have a negative impact on a persons credit rating. 
So, I understand why Ms H is unhappy about this. But, HSBCs decision to do this has also 
meant interest and charges are no longer being accrued. Given the fact Ms H didnt have the 
funds to repay the balance when it was due, this was the right thing for HSBC to do. So, I 
dont think issuing a default was unfair in the circumstances.
The debt for Ms Hs loan has been sold to a debt collection agency, and theyve been in 
touch with Ms H. The terms and conditions for Ms Hs loan say HSBC can sell an 
outstanding balance to a third party. So, I cant say HSBC treated Ms H unfairly when it 
decided to do this.
Ms H has also complained that HSBC didnt provide her with CCTV footage from the day 
she went in branch to hand in the letter about her change of address. I appreciate Ms Hs 
strength of feeling on this matter, but I dont consider Ms Hs ability to get a copy of the 
CCTV footage changes anything in this case. Thats because, the letter Ms H says she 
handed in, didnt have enough information for HSBC to change her address. So, for me the 
crux of this complaint isnt about whether Ms H tried to change her address in June 2019, it's 
about whether HSBC should have changed it. And Ive already explained why I dont think 
HSBC could have done that in June 2019. But for Ms Hs peace of mind, HSBC has 
confirmed CCTV footage from the relevant branch is only kept for 30 days. Ms H requested 
this footage around six months after she visted the branch, so it would have been deleted 
months before her request. As such, I dont consider HSBC were being unreasonable when 
they explained it wasnt available.
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding Ms H's complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman