DRN-3440360
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc disclosed information about his account
to a third party who wasnt entitled to it. He says this data breach meant he had to have
additional legal work done that wouldnt have otherwise been necessary. To resolve matters,
hed like NatWest to compensate him for the costs hes incurred.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 21 March 2022. This is what I said:
What happened
Mr P held a joint account with his late mother who passed away in early March 2018. Her
Will appointed Mr P and his sister executors. They instructed a firm of solicitors to obtain
grant of probate.
On 26 March 2018, Mr Ps sister went to a branch and it gave her statements for what was
the joint account. The statements covered the period December 2017 to March 2018.
Mr P complained  he said NatWest had committed a data breach as the account was his.
He said this disclosure had dire consequences because his sister questioned payments on it
and through a relative, then threatened to place a caveat on the Will.
The solicitors withdrew from grant of probate, citing a dispute between the executors. Mr P
says this left him with no option but to instruct someone else. But his new solicitors had to
now also deal with his sisters renunciation as executor and extensive correspondence from
her. Mr P said the banks mistake not only delayed probate for a year, but it also resulted in
additional legal work and costs in the region of £7,000. Mr Ps sister eventually renounced
her executorship.
NatWest looked into the complaint and issued its response. It said it couldnt say how the
data breach had occurred, but it had paid £500 into the account to reflect the stress and
inconvenience caused. NatWest later reviewed things and agreed to increase its
compensation by another £250 and pay another £360 towards the costs involved in handling
the complaint. But it declined to meet any further costs without evidence that the disclosure
was solely responsible.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. Initially, our investigator agreed there had been a
data breach. And while she recommended NatWest needed to cover the legal costs that
were linked to the disclosure (provided Mr P could provide more information about this), she
considered the banks offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. She didnt think
NatWest needed to cover costs linked to referring the complaint to our service.
NatWest responded to the investigators view. On reflection it didnt think there had been a
data breach to the extent that had been suggested or that the disclosure had caused the
dispute. The investigator reviewed this information and agreed. In summary, she concluded
Mr Ps sister wouldve been entitled to the information in her capacity as an executor but only
up to the point of their mothers death. She accepted NatWest shouldnt have disclosed any
information after that point and it had shared three transactions. But overall, she didnt think
those three transactions had caused the difficulties Mr P had described. And so - she
considered the payment of £500 had adequately compensated Mr P. She noted that despite
this, the bank was willing to stand by its offer to pay another £250 and £360 and invited Mr P
to reconsider it.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint. In doing so,
he said, he couldnt understand the investigators change in position and highlighted
NatWest had following an investigation, accepted there had been a data breach. He
maintained there had been no authority in place for NatWest to release any information until
it had received the death certificate (which wasnt until the April) and even then, that could
only have been the closing balance (at the date of death).
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont intend to ask NatWest
to do anymore than it has already offered to do.
Initially, NatWest accepted there had been a data breach and I note that its now changed its
position, apart for the three transactions that took place after 4 March 2018, which it doesnt
believe are responsible for the dispute. Our investigator took a view on this. Whether there
has been a data breach is possibly a question to answer but strictly speaking I dont think its
one for our service. Rather, I think thats ultimately a matter for the Information
Commissioner (ICO). Or even if I did answer the question, I dont think it would result in a
different outcome for Mr P here. Ill explain why. As an informal dispute resolution service,
we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality.
In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on
the crux of the issue.
On this point, I think its helpful to understand that the disclosure of the information was
either, not a failing on NatWest part, in which case it cant be held responsible for what Mr P
says happened. Or if it was accepted a failing, Id still need to be satisfied its error was
responsible for the dispute between the executors and the additional legal work and costs.
But having thought about things, I dont think I could reasonably find that it was responsible
for everything here. There was an intervening event  see below.
Based on what Ive seen, even before NatWest had provided the statements, it would
appear Mr Ps sister had already formed the intention to look into her mothers financial
affairs and account for funds. If she hadnt, then she wouldnt have approached NatWest in
the first place. So, given that shed already decided on a course of action, I dont think I can
say the disclosure can be attributed to the difficulties Mr P has described and crucially that
he wouldnt have faced problems of this nature from his sister anyway. And nor do I think I
can exclude the possibility his sister wouldnt have been entitled to the information (up to the
point of death) and sought it in her capacity as an executor through other means, for
example, by obtaining a court order. Having regard for all these factors, I think the offer to
pay Mr P a further £250 and £360 in addition to the £500 it has already credited to his
account is a fair way to resolve this matter.
It follows that I wont be asking NatWest to pay any more than it has already offered to do in
relation to the complaint and/or costs.My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to conclude National Westminster Bank Plc has
already made an offer of compensation (a total amount of £1,110) which I consider is fair
and reasonable to resolve this dispute. I intend to order it to pay that to Mr P, less any
amounts it has already paid.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments or evidence before the deadline. 
NatWest said it didnt have anything further to add. Mr P responded to say that he wanted it 
noted that he would incur solicitors costs of £700 plus VAT, for providing evidence our 
investigator had requested. This was in relation to costs that were directly linked to the data 
breach and some information was already known, for example, the fact that his sister was an 
executor.  Therefore, the request was unnecessary and so were the costs.  He added that 
he didnt have anything further to say beyond the information hed already provided in his 
emails of 2 and 28 February 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr P that I had already considered his emails of 2 and 28 February before 
issuing my provisional decision. But I have done so again, and this information hasnt 
changed my decision. I noted in my provisional decision that even if NatWest had disclosed 
information it shouldnt have, Id still needed to be satisfied its disclosure was responsible for 
everything Mr P had described. But presented with the facts and the sequence of events, I 
couldnt safely conclude this was the case. I say this because Mr Ps sister had already 
decided to look into their mothers affairs. If she hadnt then she wouldnt have gone to 
NatWest. So, Im afraid I still cant rule out the possibility that Mr P wouldnt have faced 
difficulties anyway. And I havent seen anything persuasive to change this view. 
I note Mr Ps comments about the information request he received from the investigator. 
However, I must explain that I can only look at the actions of NatWest here. So, Im not 
going to comment on this in my decision. 
 
Thinking about everything again, I think NatWests offer to pay Mr P a further £250 and £360 
in addition to the £500 it has already credited to his account is a fair way to resolve this 
matter.
It follows that I wont be asking NatWest to pay any more than it has already offered to do in
relation to the complaint and/or costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc has already made an offer of 
compensation (a total amount of £1,110) which I consider is fair and reasonable to resolve 
this dispute. I order it to pay that to Mr P, less any amounts it has already paid. I make no 
other award or direction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Sarita TaylorOmbudsman