DRN-2032278
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels car 
insurances decision to settle a claim under her car insurance policy as a fault claim. 
Mr L is representing Mrs A in her complaint.
What happened 
Mrs A was involved in an incident with a lorry and she made a claim to her insurer, esure. 
Mrs A said the lorry driver was at fault for the incident. But the lorry drivers insurer didnt 
agree. After investigating, esure decided to settle the claim as a fault claim. 
Mrs A was very unhappy about esures decision. But esure said it had reached is decision 
based on the information it had, and its considered chances of proving liability if the matter 
went to court. 
Mr L on behalf of Mrs A asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator explained that 
our role isnt to decide liability. But we can look at whether the insurer reached is decision 
reasonably and in line with the policy. He thought that esure had been fair to Mrs A. 
Mr L didnt agree. In summary he doesnt agree with esures decision. He believes the lorry 
driver should have seen Mrs As car if he had used his mirrors - and should have heard her 
car horn sounding as she was stationary. So Mr L would like an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esures policy has a very common term in which is in most  if not all motor insurance 
policies Ive seen. This term allows esure to settle a claim how it sees fit. This means esure 
might make a decision Mrs A doesnt agree with. But the policy allows esure to do this. We 
dont disagree with this term in principle  provided an insurer can show it treated its 
customer fairly when applying it. 
Mrs A says the lorry was ahead of her as she approached a junction. She said the lorry 
driver was in the middle of the road and appeared to be intending to turn right. She says she 
drove slowly to the position she needed to be in at the junction to turn left. However, the lorry 
driver then proceeded to turn left, by which time Mrs A was stationary and despite sounding 
her horn, the rear of the lorry collided with Mrs As car. Mrs A says the lorry driver hadnt 
indicated. 
The lorry driver says he was indicating to turn left and correctly carrying out his manoeuvre 
after checking both mirrors. He says Mrs A drove up to the nearside of the lorry. He says he 
applied the brakes but Mrs As car collided with the near side rear of the lorry. 
There wasnt any CCTV footage or independent witnesses. The third party insurer disputed 
liability. They referred to the Highway Code and said the fault lay with Mrs A for failing to 
leave enough room for a larger vehicle to carry out a manoeuvre  given that they need 
more road space and may not be able to deal with a hazard they are unable to see. So from 
the information it had, esure decided to accept fault for the incident. Its notes show that it 
properly considered the evidence available from both sides before reaching its decision.  
Mr L has provided key information from the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency in relation 
to a lorry turning left  as was the case here. The part Mr L has highlighted reads:
 make sure the area to your left is clear before you start to turn  vulnerable road 
users such as cyclists might move into this area and are difficult to see.
However, I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome esure reached. esure said it 
cannot prove Mrs As account over the lorry driver. And from where Mrs A was, the onus 
was on her to give enough room for the larger vehicle to carry out its manoeuvre. The lorry 
driver said he checked before carrying out his manoeuvre. esure cannot prove that the lorry 
driver wasnt indicating or that Mrs As car was stationary.
Even if esure had decided to settle the claim on a shared liability basis, the claim would still 
be recorded as a fault claim against Mrs A (and the lorry driver) as the insurer was unable to 
recover all of their costs from a third party.
So I think esure properly considered liability and reached its decision to settle the claim as a 
fault claim reasonably. I understand Mr L is very disappointed with esures decision. But for 
the reasons Ive given, Im not asking esure to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman