DRN-4343858
The complaint
Ms R complains about the quality of a car she purchased under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with Unity Auto Finance Ltd (Unity) and about Unitys management and 
administration of that agreement.
What happened
On 15 November 2022 Ms R entered into an agreement with Unity for a used car costing 
£10,999. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Ms R undertook to 
make 59 monthly payments of £327 followed by 1 monthly payment of £337 making a total 
repayable of £19,630 at an APR of 28.9%.
On 30 May 2023 Ms R complained to Unity that there was a fault with the cars start/stop 
button and the brake discs had worn and were rusty.
Unity advised Ms R that because of the absence of an independent inspection report 
confirming the start/stop button fault was present or developing at the point of sale, and 
given brake discs are serviceable items, it wasnt upholding her complaint. 
For reasons not material to this complaint Unity agreed with Ms R that it would terminate the 
agreement on 20 July 2023 and collect the car (for sale at auction) on 24 July 2023, which it 
did.
On 4 August 2023 Unity wrote to Ms R to say that following the sale of the car at auction she 
owed it £4,143.22 broken down as follows:
opening balance £19,630.00
payments made (6 x £327.00) (£1,962.00)
option to purchase fee (£10.00)
rebate of interest (£6,773.58)
sale proceeds (£6,741.20)
closing balance £4,143.22
On 16 August 2023 Ms R agreed with Unity that she would pay it £20 a month.
Ms Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that 
Unity had done nothing wrong.
Ms R didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and for 
the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been said.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than it may merit. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact my decision.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory (as some of it is here), Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
As the agreement entered into by Ms R is a regulated one this service is able to consider 
complaints relating to it. Unity is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement 
and so are responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Unity are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present or 
developing when the car was supplied, unless Unity can show otherwise. But, where a fault 
is identified after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Ms R to show it was 
present or developing when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Ms R took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Unity to put this right.
Ms R says that although she didnt contact Unity about the cars quality until just over six 
months had passed, she had tried to contact the original supplying dealership about the 
cars quality within the first six months.
Although I dont dispute that Ms R may have tried to contact the original supplying dealership 
within the first six months, other than Ms Rs testimony there is no evidence to support why 
such contact was made or attempted, for example a follow up letter or email from Ms R. So 
with this in mind I dont think it was unreasonable for Unity to advise Ms R that she would 
need an independent inspection report confirming any current faults were present or 
developing at the point of sale before it would agree to repair, or the rejection of, the car.
When Ms R purchased the car it was already six and a half years old and had travelled over 
78,000 miles. And when the car was sold by Unity seven weeks after Ms R first complained 
to it she had added in the region of a further 15,000 miles to the odometer (in eight months). 
So with this in mind and taking everything that has been said and provided by the parties 
(including the picture of the cars dashboard displaying the message starter/ignition fault, 
engine cannot be started, please call Im satisfied that I cant reasonably conclude, on the 
balance of probabilities, that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when Ms R purchased it. 
And because of this, I cant reasonably conclude that this aspect of Ms Rs complaint should 
be upheld.I can see that Ms R has provided pictures of a number of other dashboard messages. But 
Im satisfied that all these messages relate to serviceable items that need attending to and 
items needing attention that wouldnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time of 
sale.
I will now turn to Ms Rs complaint about the management and administration of the 
agreement, especially after she had complained to Unity about the cars quality. But I cant 
see that Unity has done anything wrong in this respect and Im satisfied that its entitled to 
seek the recovery the sum of £4,143.22 (less payments made since 4 August 2023) from 
Ms R and what it has recorded with one or more credit reference agencies isnt incorrect. 
And because of this, I cant reasonably conclude this aspect of Ms Rs complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. However, I would remind Unity Auto 
Finance Ltd of its obligations to treat Ms R, if she is in financial difficulties, fairly and with due 
consideration and forbearance going forward.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman