DRN-4176005
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) unfairly defaulted his account. He would like the 
default removed.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr L doesnt dispute he owed Lex £257.04 for extra hire days and minor damage. 
But as he had an MOT carried out for which he was eligible for a refund he wanted 
that sum deducting off the final balance owing. That doesnt seem unreasonable to 
me, but it seems Lex processes dont allow for this and its not for me to tell Lex what 
processes to use. 
From the information I have seen its clear Mr L engaged online with Lex from April 
2022 accepting he owed money but wanting the MOT cost deducted from the 
balance  Lex confirmed in early June 2022 it  wasnt possible to do this. Mr L would 
need to pay the outstanding balance on his account, the MOT cost would be 
refunded separately. So, by early June Mr L knew  he had to pay the outstanding 
balance on the account but didnt do so.
Lex has referred to a phone call on 17 May 2022 when it says an adviser told Mr L 
the MOT couldnt be offset against his outstanding balance. I havent listened to this 
phone call so I cant be sure what was said. Lex offered Mr L £49 compensation 
partly for the delay in responding to an email but also because it felt its adviser could 
have reiterated the position with regard to the MOT refund in this phone cal. So, its 
possible L knew this as early as mid-May.
I have seen a total of 9 letters Lex sent Mr L from March 2022. 4 of these letters were 
sent after Lex had confirmed online Mr L couldnt offset the MOT cost against the 
outstanding balance. Mr L says he didnt get these letters. I dont know why that was 
as they appear to be correctly addressed. These letters all make it clear of the 
potential implications for Mr Ls credit file if he didnt clear the outstanding balance on 
his account. I think Lex gave Mr L every opportunity to do this.
I dont accept Mr Ls point that he hasnt broken his agreement. I appreciate he did 
make all the necessary monthly payments to his account. But the agreement he 
signed allowed for charges for extra use and damage, so Lex were entitled to charge 
him for these and to take the action it did when he didnt make a payment.
As I dont think Lex has done anything wrong I cant reasonably ask it to remove the 
default from his credit file as Mr L would like. Its important that credit files accurately 
reflect account history . Unfortunately, Mr L chose not to pay off the outstanding 
balance on his account despite numerous opportunities to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman