DRN-1497249
The complaint
Mr G complains Santander UK Plc has wrongly declined his Section 75 claim.
What happened
Mr G purchased a used vehicle from a dealership for £17,700. He examined the car before 
purchase and noticed a very strong smell of cleaning fluid.  The dealership explained the car 
had been valeted, which Mr G accepted at the time.
Mr G says that the car was saturated with cleaning fluid and took around five weeks to dry 
out fully. When it did, he says there was a very strong odour of cigarette smoke. Mr G feels 
the car was misrepresented to him  he thinks the cleaning fluid was used to hide the smell 
of smoke. He says he didnt want to hand the car back because it was impractical, and he 
needed it. He says the dealership offered the swap the car for another, but he wasnt 
satisfied with any alternative. He feels the car wasnt of satisfactory quality because of the 
smell. He says he wasnt informed the previous owner was a smoker or the smell was 
concealed by way of cleaning fluids. When he inspected the car, it wasnt noticeable.
Mr G bought the car as a present for his daughter, he says the smell is unpleasant and he 
would like compensation for it. As he made part of the payment for the car on his Santander 
credit card, he raised a Section 75 claim with them.
Santander issued its final response on 24 June 2019. It said Mr G didnt have a valid claim. 
This is because it said there was no evidence of the alleged misrepresentation. It also said 
as there was no mechanical failure and Mr G had retained and used the car it remained 
safe, durable and fit for purpose.
Mr G remined dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into things for Mr G. She didnt think Santander has acted unfairly or 
made an error by rejecting his Section 75 claim. This is because she didnt find a fault with 
the car as she didnt find cigarette smoke smell can be classed as a fault under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act. On that basis she couldnt uphold Mr Gs assertion of 
misrepresentation and so she didnt ask Santander to do anything further. 
Mr G disagreed. He says the dealerships marketing clearly references its vehicles as being 
odour free. His car isnt odour free and he strongly believes it misrepresented the car to him 
by dousing it with cleaning fluid. He asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information from both partied afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the 
same view as the investigator. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment, Ill explain 
why.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, when I think about what a fair way is to resolve Mr Gs complaint, I must 
take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, 
Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, 
for example, a court might reach if Mr G pursued a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. This is because, our service is an informal alternative to the courts, and it operates 
under different rules from a court.
Section 75 says in certain circumstances, if Mr G paid using his credit card, then the credit 
card provider is as responsible as the supplier if he didnt get what he was promised and if 
what he was promised made him go ahead with the contract.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there must be a: 
 debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and 
 a clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain. It is not 
disputed there is an unbroken debtor, credit supplier link and so the issue I have to consider 
is whether there was a clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
In this case, Im considering whether Mr Gs specific car was misrepresented to him. For me 
to decide that it was, I would need to be satisfied both that he was told something false  
and that he relied on that information when deciding whether to buy the car.
Mr G has explained the car smelt strongly of cleaning fluid when he inspected the car. He 
also says he sat in the car and has explained he takes the time to look closely at anything he 
is choosing to purchase. So, although, he points to the marketing material from the 
dealership website referring to all cars being odour free, there isnt anything that suggest all 
cars, or more specifically, the car he chose to purchase would only have had non-smoking 
previous owners. I havent seen anything that suggested he asked or that the dealership 
would disclose this level of information. 
Im not wishing to underplay how unpleasant stale cigarette smoke odour can be, especially 
to a non-smoker. I appreciate Mr G feels the level of cleaning fluid smell was a deliberate act 
to cover up a smell of cigarette smoke. But it seems reasonable to me that the dealership 
would most likely have valeted the car to present it in the best light possible, I dont agree 
that constitutes misrepresentation.
The car remains of a satisfactory quality in terms of there is no mechanical failure and Mr G 
has retained and used the car. It also remains safe, durable and fit for purpose.
Having carefully considered everything thats been presented within this complaint, and 
taking Section 75 into account, I dont consider there are any fair and reasonable grounds to 
ask Santander to refund the cost of the car. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman