DRN-3583037
The complaint and what happened
Mr S complains Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse money he lost to an investment scam. 
Mr S was approached on a social media platform with an investment opportunity. He 
researched this and satisfied himself it was genuine and so a few months later he decided to 
start investing.  In July and August Mr S invested around £3,920 into crypto currency for the 
investment and to pay fees to obtain his profits. The payments were made to Bitcoin and 
MoonPay. After paying a few fees, Mr S realised he was being scammed when he continued 
being asked for more and more. 
Mr S complained to Starling. But it didnt uphold his complaint as it said there was no duty on 
it to intervene in the payments; and there were no chargeback rights for the payments made. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. He didnt find the payments were unusual 
or uncharacteristic such that Starling ought to have intervened in them. Mr Ss representative 
asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman as it considers the payments were far 
higher than other spending on the account and to crypto-currency providers.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, for the 
following reasons:
Under banking regulations and banking terms and conditions, a bank should execute 
authorised payments instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for authorised payments rest with the payer  Mr S  even where they have 
been tricked into making those payments. There is no dispute Mr S authorised the 
transactions. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty 
to protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for those losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
But that duty doesnt extend to protecting customers from poor investment choices. 
Mr S says the merchant was called Crypto Alliance Trade. I havent been able to 
find out any information about this merchant, not any positive reviews as Mr S 
indicated he found, nor information to suggest its a scam. So its far from certain Mr 
S has actually been scammed rather than losing money to a high-risk investment.
But even if I accept Mr S has been scammed, Im not persuaded Starling ought to 
have intervened in any of the payments made. Having looked over Mr Ss statements 
its clear this is an account he rarely uses. And when he does, he always transfers 
money in from another account before making payments. Thats the same as what 
happened here, and so the payments followed a regular pattern for Mr Ss spending. 
I accept the payments were higher than other payments on the account. I also accept 
they were to new payees that were crypto currency providers. But that of itself 
doesnt make a payment suspicious or mean that a bank ought to intervene  after all 
buying crypto currency is a legitimate exercise and the merchants Mr S used are 
well-known legitimate crypto exchanges. The payments were also spaced apart, 
being made over several weeks, so the velocity of them isnt a cause for concern. 
Whilst I accept the representatives point that some of these payments were higher 
than other spending on the account, Im not persuaded the transactions were so 
unusual or uncharacteristic that they ought to have looked suspicious or that Starling 
ought to have been on alert that its customer was at risk of fraud or a scam.
Its also correct that no chargeback rights exist for Mr Ss transactions  the 
merchants provided the service asked for, the exchange of fiat currency into crypto-
currency. And the Contingent Reimbursement Model doesnt apply either as the 
transactions were paid for by card, which the model doesnt cover. 
I accept Mr S has lost money he can ill afford to lose. Despite my natural sympathy 
for the situation in which he finds himself, I dont find Starling did anything wrong, and 
so I dont make an award against it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman