DRN-3237211
The complaint
Mr O complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly 
cancelled his car insurance policy without contacting him first.
What happened
The facts of this case are well-known to all parties concerned, so Im not going to repeat 
everything here. Instead Ill give a brief overview of whats happened, and then Ill give my 
decision and the reasons for it.
Mr O held a car insurance policy with Advantage which ran from July 2020 to July 2021. In 
May 2021 Mr Os unattended vehicle was hit by a driver who didnt stop. Mr O logged a 
claim with Advantage on 9 May 2021. 
Following receipt of the claim there was some correspondence between Mr O and 
Advantage about the valuation of his vehicle, which Advantage had deemed to be a total 
loss. This issue was finally resolved, so I havent considered that any further. 
Whilst assessing Mr Os claim Advantage wrote to him on 11 May 2021 asking him to 
contact it by 17 May 2021, in relation to an undisclosed speeding conviction that it had 
become aware of whilst processing the claim. Mr O explains that he received Advantages 
letter on 17 May and by the time he read it, Advantages offices were closed, so he wasnt 
able to contact it by phone. But Mr O explains that he checked his speeding convictions 
online and discovered one from 2018 which he then realised he hadnt disclosed when he 
took out the policy. He amended his policy online on the same day to reflect this conviction.
Mr O explains that following the policy amendment he didnt hear anything else from 
Advantage until it wrote to him on 28 May 2021 to let him know it had cancelled his policy. 
Advantage says this was due to Mr O not contacting it following a letter it sent on 20 May 
2021  but Mr O says he didnt receive that letter. 
Mr O made a complaint about the cancellation of the policy. In its response Advantage said it 
was within its right to cancel the policy following non-receipt of the communication it had 
asked for on 11 May 2021 and 20 May 2021. As he was unhappy with this response Mr O 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend it should he upheld. He 
explained that the letters Advantage sent to Mr O had been sent to the correct address, so 
he couldnt hold Advantage responsible if Mr O didnt receive them. And whilst he 
acknowledged that this couldve been considered under the Consumer Insurance Disclosure 
and Representations Act (CIDRA), Advantage had simply chosen to cancel the policy in 
line with its terms and conditions, which he said was fair.  
As Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view, it has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know thisll likely come as a disappointment to Mr O but Im afraid Im not upholding his 
complaint, broadly for the same reasons as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
- Advantage wrote to Mr A at the address it held on file for him, which is also the address 
he gave to this service when raising his complaint. And I havent seen anything to lead 
me to believe that Advantage should have known not to do that  especially as Mr O 
received the first letter Advantage sent, on 11 May. The second letter, although Mr O 
says he didnt receive it, did ask him to contact it by 27 May 2021 otherwise it would 
cancel his policy. I dont dispute Mr Os version of events when he says he didnt receive 
that letter, as I think its likely hed have contacted Advantage as he was asked to, when 
faced with the prospect of his policy being cancelled. But in order to say Advantage acted 
unfairly at this point Id need to find that it had done something wrong  and thats not the 
case here  although I do understand how unfair this feels to Mr O.
- I note that following receipt of the first letter, on 17 May 2021, Mr O went online to amend 
his policy and declare the speeding conviction that he says he discovered after checking 
the DVLAs records. I do commend Mr Os quick thinking here, when faced with the 
problem of not being able to contact Advantage about it. But I do have to note that the 
letter Advantage sent didnt give specific information on the speeding conviction it was 
referring to. And the letter also didnt ask Mr O to amend the policy  it asked him to 
contact it to discuss the matter. I know Mr O wasnt able to contact Advantage on 17 May 
as the offices were closed, but had he done so on any of the days following this, as 
requested in the letter, I think its likely this situation couldve been avoided. I say this 
because Advantage says that the undisclosed speeding conviction in 2018 isnt the one 
that it was referring to, but in fact one from 2017. 
-Finally, Ive checked Mr Os policy wording to ensure that Advantage acted in line with its 
terms and conditions. I can see that under the section Cancellation Advantage explains 
that I may cancel the policy if:
 You don't send us or your Insurer information or documentation 
that your Insurer reasonably requires to process your Policy, or a 
claim, or to defend their interests
- Based on this part of the policy I think it was fair for Advantage to cancel the policy, for 
the reasons set out above. As Mr O didnt contact it on both occasions he was asked to, 
so its fair to say he didnt provide reasonable co-operation, and nor did he provide the 
information it required to process a claim. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not upholding Mr Os complaint about the way that 
Advantage cancelled his car insurance policy. Ive noted Mr Os comments around how this 
affects his ability to get another car insurance policy due to the increased premiums a 
cancelled policy causes, and Im sorry for that, but I havent found that Advantage acted 
unfairly in this case.  My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against Advantage Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman