DRN-2189218
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Metro Bank PLC wont refund him for disputed transactions he 
didnt make or authorise. 
What happened
Mr S has a current account with Metro and several online gambling accounts
.
Between 29 August 2019 and 2 September 2019 Mr Ss debit card was used to make 
several online deposits into one of his online gambling accounts totalling just under £5,000, 
which he says he didnt make or authorise. This was then spent on online games. 
Mr S has explained that he keeps his wallet and phone in his bedroom. And his casino 
accounts are accessed via apps on his mobile phone. He says he doesnt have a security 
code on his mobile phone and his online gambling accounts can be easily accessed as his 
account passwords are saved in google.
Mr S says during the time the disputed transactions were made hed allowed a female 
acquaintance to stay at his address for a couple of weeks. He says that whilst he was asleep 
the woman took his bank card and phone, then made the transactions.
 
Mr S has explained that he doesnt know the woman very well, including her real name, but 
whenever she visits London, he lets her stay at his home. Mr S says that when he gets paid, 
he normally puts £1,000 into his account to pay for entertainment, which includes gambling. 
And the woman knew he had quite a bit of money in his account because hed told her. 
Hes explained that he normally works night shifts, and when he woke up in the early hours 
on 3 September 2019, after a long shift, he noticed an email from a casino which told him 
hed overspent on his account. Hes said at this time the woman had left his address and 
stolen his casino cash out card from his wallet, which would enable the bearer to withdraw 
winnings from the casino. Mr S said no other bank cards were taken from his wallet. Mr S 
reported the fraud to Metro on 3 September 2019. 
Metro investigated, which included the bank contacting the casino, and decided not to refund 
the disputed transactions. It concluded that Mr S had made the transactions himself. In 
summary it said:
Mr Ss card number and CVV were used to make the transactions
the activity was indicative of genuine use, with small stakes slots gaming, which was 
consistent with Mr Ss usual gambling habits
No funds were transferred from Mr Ss online casino account so that it could be 
withdrawn as cash as Mr S had suggested
Mr S accessed his mobile banking more than 20 times over the course of the 
disputed transactions. Therefore, the transactions would have been apparent to him 
as they were ongoing. But Mr S didnt contact the bank until after the last disputed 
transaction had been made
the casino merchant confirmed that a third party wouldnt be able to use Mr Ss 
casino cash out card to withdraw funds as part of the casinos ID process would be to 
check the photograph they hold on record. 
Mr S disagreed with Metros decision. So, he brought his complaint to this service where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. 
Based on the evidence she thought Mr S had authorised the transactions because the 
transactions actions hadnt followed a typical fraud pattern; it was unlikely that anyone other 
than Mr S wouldve been able to withdraw money at the casino and Mr S logged into his 
online banking at least 20 times during the disputed transactions. But didnt contact Metro 
until after the last disputed transaction.
Mr S disagreed.  He said he has been the victim of fraud. And hes never reported any of his 
gambling transactions as fraudulent before, even when hes lost money. Mr S says the bank 
should have noticed the disputed transactions and stopped them leaving his account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr S and Metro have read the investigators 
view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr S that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence. 
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for much the same 
reasons. Is explain why.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr S authorised the 
payments, Metro is entitled to hold him liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Mr S says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions, so my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I 
think Mr S authorised the transactions by making them himself. 
 
Having reviewed Metros technical evidence, Im satisfied that Mr Ss card details were used 
to make the disputed transactions and that they were authenticated. But, the regulations 
relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough to enable Metro to hold Mr S 
liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mr S consented to the transactions being made or whether he is the 
victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence, despite what Mr S has said, Im not persuaded that his 
female acquaintance made the transactions. And Im satisfied that Mr S did consent to the 
transactions he is disputing. I say this because:
Metros technical records show the transactions were made using Mr Ss mobile 
device
the disputed transactions took place over five days during the early hours, late at 
night or early morning
this would mean a third party would have to take and replace Mr Ss bank card and 
mobile phone without being noticed over a number of days at different times. I dont 
think that Mr Ss acquaintance would risk taking Mr Ss bank card and phone, 
replacing it, taking it again, completing further transactions and then returning the 
them. This back and forth wouldve created an unnecessary risk of alerting Mr S that fraudulent transactions were taking place. This was particularly risky given Mr S has 
told us that his acquaintance was staying with him for a couple of weeks
the person making the transactions needed to be aware of Mr Ss gambling account 
details
no other bank cards were taken or used which were in Mr Ss wallet with his cash out 
casino card  which is unusual. I would expect someone committing fraud to take the 
opportunity to either take the cards or at the very least use them to make further 
fraudulent transactions  but this didnt happen
the casino merchant has confirmed that no funds were transferred to be withdrawn 
via Mr Ss cash out card. And no attempts were made to withdraw cash using the 
card. The casino security processes would also have prevented anyone other than 
Mr S being able to do so, as Mr Ss photographic ID (driving licence and branch 
photo) are stored in his gambling account. So, Mr Ss acquaintance wouldnt have 
been able to access cash in his account as hes suggested
the disputed transactions took place at a merchant normally used by Mr S and for 
similar gaming activity  slot machines
Mr S logged onto his online banking on at least 20 separate occasions on different 
days during the period the disputed transactions were made. But he didnt notice the 
transactions and report them to the bank
the disputed transactions reduced Mr Ss account balance significantly, yet he didnt 
dispute the transactions until 3 September 2019, after the last disputed transaction 
had been made, which left just £0.12 in his account. So, I think he wouldve noticed 
the transactions much sooner than hes said he did as his account balance was 
reducing significantly over the period
the disputed transactions dont fit the usual pattern of fraud. Usually a fraudster will 
try and maximise the usage of the account in order to get the greatest benefit from 
the account before the account holder notices their funds are missing and the card is 
cancelled. But this didnt happen. 
the technical evidence provided by the casino shows the IP addressed used to make 
the online deposits into Mr Ss gambling account is a usual address used by Mr S
any winnings would have been paid into Mr Ss account. So, theres no explanation 
for how Mr Ss acquaintance would have benefitted from the winnings  especially 
given what Ive said about the casinos security measures which would have 
prevented anyone other than Mr S accessing any winnings. So, it doesnt seem likely 
that anyone would defraud Mr S like this if ultimately any money went back to him 
and the thief didnt make any profit. And had no way of accessing the funds. 
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. In my view 
the most likely explanation here is that Mr S made the disputed transactions himself.  So, in 
the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask Metro to refund Mr S the disputed 
transactions. 
Mr S has said that the bank should have spotted the transactions and stopped them from 
going through. So, the banks at fault. My primary task has been to decide if Mr S authorised 
the disputed transactions. I cant decide he didnt authorise them just because Metro didnt 
block the payments. I have to look at the evidence, which in my view connects him to the 
disputed transactions. And Ive set this out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman