DRN-2454635
The complaint
X is unhappy with how HSBC UK Bank Plc has handled his request to recall an electronic 
payment he sent.
What happened
X and Ms W have a joint current account with HSBC. In April 2019, X arranged an online 
payment. Unfortunately, he used the wrong sort code and account number. As a result, the 
payment was sent to the wrong person.
The following day, X contacted HSBC by telephone to tell it about his error and ask what 
could be done. He confirmed to the agent that he knew where the money had been sent. 
The agent suggested that he contact the receiver to request that the money be returned. The 
agent told X that this might be the quickest solution.
When this wasnt successful, X contacted HSBC again on a number of occasions to ask if it 
could recover the money. In early May 2019, X raised a complaint with HSBC as no action 
had been taken.
 
In July 2019, HSBC wrote to X to advise that the receiver of the payment hadnt responded. 
This meant that it was unable to recover the money that had been sent.
  
X felt that HSBC hadnt acted quickly enough in its efforts to recover the money. He wasnt 
happy with the service and response he received from HSBC so decided to refer his 
complaint to this service.
The complaint has been reviewed by one of our investigators. Based upon the information 
provided, she didnt uphold Xs complaint. X asked that the case be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information provided included records of the complaint held by HSBC and letters sent to 
X. I have also listened to a call between X and HSBC at the time when the mistake was first 
reported. X has also confirmed the events as he remembers them.
When X first contacted HSBC to report the problem, he confirmed that he knew where the 
money had been sent. The HSBC agent suggested that if he was to contact this person 
himself, he may be able arrange for the funds to be sent back to him. He was asked to call 
back if he wasnt successful. The agent made it clear that there was no guarantee that the 
bank would be successful in recovering the money.
 
This is a reasonable response given that X said that he knew where the money was sent. A 
direct approach from X could well have been the quickest way of recovering the money sent, 
as HSBC wouldve had to contact the receiving bank, which would then have had to contact 
its customer. So, its suggestion here was a helpful one.
When X was unsuccessful in arranging return of the money, he contacted HSBC again and 
raised his complaint. This was in early May. HSBC resolved this by starting the payment 
trace process. X confirmed that he was happy with this outcome. But HSBC later said that it 
had not obtained all the details needed to make the payment trace at that time. They also 
needed details of the intended beneficiary. HSBC tried to call X back without success. The 
details required from X were received in mid-June and the trace was started.
 
HSBC has since agreed that there were service issues here in not getting all the information 
when X first told it he wanted it to pursue this for him. It has offered X compensation of £100 
recognising the poor service hed received. There is no evidence to suggest that HSBCs 
delays led to the unsuccessful recovery. So, I think that this offer is fair and reasonable, in 
the circumstances of his complaint, for the trouble and inconvenience this caused him.
The process used by HSBC to recover the money can take several weeks as it involves 
identifying and contacting the bank which then needs to contact its customer. The success of 
this approach would depend upon the receiver of the money responding to his bank and 
agreeing to return the money.
HSBC contacted X in July 2019 by letter to provide an update on its attempts to recover the 
money. It confirmed that the receiver of the money had not replied to the contact and 
requests made by the receiving bank. This meant that it was unable to recover the money 
sent.
 
HSBC told X that he could submit a written request to obtain the name and address of the 
receiver of the money. This meant that he could take further action himself. It also suggested 
that he seek independent legal advice. I think this is a reasonable suggestion in the 
circumstances, as HSBC really had done all it could by this point. By signposting X in this 
way, it was just giving him further options to potentially pursue the dispute outside of its 
involvement.
 
X requested information from HSBC to assist him in taking further action to recover the 
money. In particular, he had requested statements to confirm the payment details. It appears 
that there were delays and errors with HSBC providing this information. HSBC agrees that it 
took too long here and agreed to order the statements required once X clarifies what he 
needs. I think that this is also a fair response in the circumstances.
Taking all of this into account, I dont believe that HSBC has acted unfairly. I do have 
sympathy for Xs situation and the delays that he has experienced with HSBC. Unfortunately, 
HSBC cant be held responsible for an error made by its customer when sending money 
electronically. Accepting the delays in responding to Xs request, HSBC appears to have 
explored and completed all options available to it to recover the money in a fair way.
 
I appreciate the further comments made by X. I have considered these carefully and decided 
that the amount already offered by HSBC for compensation is reasonable and takes what 
happened into account. Im afraid that I wont be increasing this.
  My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay X 
and Ms W a total of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
David Morgan
Ombudsman