DRN-3321460
The complaint
Mr S complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs (Barclays) handling of a payment made to 
his Buy to Let mortgage
. 
What happened
Mr S holds a mortgage with Barclays. He makes some manual payments in the branch. He 
says his understanding is that any payments made should be backdated to the date the 
payment was made, regardless of how or where it was made. Mr S says a payment made in 
May or June 2021 wasnt credited to the account within five working days. To put things 
right, Mr S says hes looking for £300 in compensation. 
Barclays responded to Mr S complaint. It said Mr S was aware making payments in the 
branch meant the bank couldnt guarantee theyd credited to the account within five working 
days. It had responded to complaints Mr S made about this issue before. Barclays also said 
Mr S continued to make payments in the branch, despite knowing they might not be credited 
to the account in time. And Mr S could have used alternative methods to make the payment, 
such as online or mobile banking. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint. She was satisfied Barclays gave Mr S 
the information needed to do ensure his payments were credited to the account in time. She 
didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more to put things right. As Mr S didnt agree, 
this matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying this service isnt a regulator  its not for us to say how a bank should 
implement or change processes. Mr S says he was told Barclays would correct this problem, 
and Barclays says it is working to do so. So, while Ive considered what Mr S said about this, 
my decision will focus on whether Barclays has responded to Mr S complaint in a fair and 
reasonable way. And Im satisfied it has. 
Its clear Mr S is unhappy with the fact making payments in branch means they cant be 
guaranteed to be credited to his mortgage account within a particular timeframe. In response 
to earlier queries about this, Barclays backdated some payments. However, the fact 
Barclays has chosen to backdate some historic payments doesnt mean it must do so each 
time Mr S chooses to make a payment in branch. 
I note after backdating the past payments, Barclays told Mr S why payments made in the 
branch would take longer to be credited to his mortgage account. Mr S is aware of the 
timeframe for payments to be credited to his account when they are made in branch. Im 
satisfied Barclays has provided other means of making payments to Mr S. However, Mr S 
chooses to continue to make payments in branch, rather than using some of the other 
options that would mean the payments are credited more quickly. Im satisfied Barclays has 
taken reasonable steps to provide Mr S with the information needed to make payments to 
his account by a number of means. It follows I dont think Barclays needs to do more than it 
has here, and Im not going to require it to make a compensation payment as Mr S asked. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman