DRN-2309776
The complaint
Ms W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc reported a mortgage application she made to 
one of the fraud prevention databases, CIFAS.
What happened
Ms W applied for a buy to let mortgage with BoI, via a broker, in 2017. She, or the broker on 
her behalf, completed an application form and submitted it to BoI.
BoI then considered the application. It asked Ms W for evidence of savings to show that she 
had the deposit needed to buy the property. Ms W provided bank statements which were not 
in her own name.
BoI refused the application. It also reported Ms W to the fraud prevention database. Ms W 
discussed the marker some time later when her bank asked her to close her business bank 
account. She complained.
Our investigator didnt think BoI had acted fairly in making the report to the database, and 
said BoI should remove it, and pay £250 compensation. BoI didnt agree, and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CIFAS database sets out principles for its members, which are publicly available on its 
website. One of the principles sets out the standard required for making a report. The 
relevant sections set out the standard of proof to be applied:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime 
has been committed or attempted;
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the conduct of the Subject to the police.
In this case, BoI has referred to the Fraud Act. There are various offences included in that 
Act  but a common theme is dishonesty, and an intention to gain financially from that 
dishonesty. And Ive taken that into account in deciding whether I think BoI acted fairly. 
BoIs concerns relate to information provided in and with the application. It said the 
application form indicated that the mortgage repayments were to come from an account not 
in Ms Ws name. And when it asked for proof of deposit, she gave it statements in the name 
of the same unrelated third party.
Ms W told our investigator that the third party was her husband. They regarded their assets, 
and would regard this property, as being jointly held. And when this mortgage was refused, 
he later bought the property in his name using a mortgage from another lender  though they 
manage it together and consider it a joint asset.
BoI isnt required to lend, and has a broad commercial discretion in deciding whether to do 
so. It was entitled to refuse the mortgage application and theres nothing unfair about that.
But making a report to the database requires a higher threshold. Ive noted that Ms W made 
no attempt to conceal the source of the deposit or pass it off as her own funds. She provided 
her husbands bank statements when requested, and stated on the face of the application 
that repayments would come from his account. BoI didnt ask her about this, or carry out any 
further investigation.
Im not persuaded, on the evidence Ive seen, that BoI has shown that it could fairly consider 
there to be evidence of fraud or criminality to the standard required by the database. And it 
follows that I dont think the report was fair, and the marker should be removed now.
Putting things right
Im satisfied the presence of the marker caused Ms W trouble and upset. Shes explained 
the impact on her, including the closure of her business account. I dont have direct evidence 
that the marker was the reason for the closure. But I do think Ms W has been distressed by 
the discovery of the marker, and Im satisfied £250 is fair compensation for that.  
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc to:
Remove any record of this application from fraud prevention databases; and
Pay Ms W £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman