DRN-4250787
Complaint
Mr H has complained about loans Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money initially provided Mr H with a loan for £2,500.00 in October 2017. This loan 
was due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £250. Mr H was then provided with 
a second loan for £1,000.00 in July 2021. This loan was due to be repaid in 12 monthly 
instalments of around just over £101. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly for loan 1 
but that it should have realised that it shouldnt have provided loan 2 to Mr H. So she 
recommend that Mr Hs complaint be partially upheld. 118 118 Money agreed with our 
adjudicators assessment but Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
As the parties are in agreement with the outcome on loan 2, this decision is only looking at 
whether 118 118 Money acted fairly and reasonably when providing loan 1 to Mr H.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that what 118 118 Money has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
case. Im therefore not requiring it to do anything further. Ill explain why in a little more 
detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr H could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Hs application for loan 1 after he provided details of his 
monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr H 
could afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr H has 
said he was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and 118 118 Money have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that 118 118 Money has provided a record of the results of its 
credit searches. 118 118 Money searches appear to show that apart from being a little over 
the limit on one his credit card a few months earlier, which on its own wouldnt suggest that a 
lender shouldnt lend, Mr Hs commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. 
Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Hs unsecured debt total at the time of the 
application was reasonable in comparison to his income too. 
I accept that Mr H appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money 
obtained. But even if I accept that 118 118 Moneys checks ought to have gone into the 
depth Mr H appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements in the 
same way a mortgage provider would  despite Mr H having been provided with an 
extended opportunity to provide sufficient information, Ive not seen anything to indicate that 
the loan payments to loan 1 were demonstrably unaffordable. 
I also think that its important for me to explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr H is suggesting  
and even then we havent been provided with anything which demonstrates the loan was 
unaffordable at the time either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend provide loan 1 to Mr H - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on 
what it found out which suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, Ive 
not been provided with anything to suggest that doing more would have prevented it from 
lending either.
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with loan 1. And Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint this loan. I appreciate this 
will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
As Im not upholding the complaint about loan 1 Im satisfied that what 118 118 Money has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of his complaint. And I leave it up to Mr H to decide whether he now wishes to 
accept the offer 118 118 Money has made in relation to loan 2. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Madison CF UK Limited has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. And Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman