DRN-2703625
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Unum Ltds decision to decline a claim he made on his income 
protection policy. 
Mr S is represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease of reference, Ill refer to any 
submissions as being made by Mr S personally.
What happened
Mr S had a group income protection policy through his employer, underwritten by Unum. 
This would pay a benefit if Mr S was unable to work due to illness or injury.
Mr S was employed as a Group Accountant and he first became absent in May 2018. 
A claim was submitted in March 2019 but Unum declined this on the basis that Mr S did not 
meet the definition of incapacity because his absence was caused by workplace issues. It 
said there was no evidence to support the existence of a mental health condition that would 
cause Mr S sustained functional impairment. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought a complaint to this service. He said it didnt think it was fair 
stress is not considered an illness. And he was suffering with depression throughout the 
deferred period and longer. Mr S said Unum are being stricter than their terms and 
conditions set out.
Our investigator looked at what had happened. She explained she wasnt persuaded the 
evidence provided showed Mr S was incapacitated due to an illness or injury because she 
felt the main cause of Mr S inability to work was situational rather than medical. So it was 
fair for Unum to decline the claim on that basis.
Mr S disagreed with her findings. He said his symptoms of depression hadnt been taken 
account of. He also highlighted that even when he was off work and out of that environment, 
he was still unwell. So he didnt agree his condition was situational. 
The case has now been passed to me to make a decision.
Mr S is a member of his employers group income protection policy. The policy pays a 
proportion of his income, if he is incapacitated and unable to work. 
Mr S was signed off work from his role as a Group Accountant. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a
claim unreasonably.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Unums terms and conditions define incapacity as follows:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are: unable, by reason of
their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of the insured
occupation and are not performing any occupation.
Mr S health issues are reported to have started at the point of his company takeover. He 
was working longer hours and had an increased workload which led him to feel exhausted 
and impacted his homelife. The stress that the company takeover had caused Mr S is well 
documented throughout his medical notes. 
I also note that Mr S was involved in a disciplinary procedure with his employer following an 
accusation against him. And I can see several references to the ongoing stress and worry 
this caused him in relation to his future. 
Im persuaded that the problems Mr S experienced at work are what caused him to feel 
unwell and ultimately led him to need to take time off. Ill explain why. 
Throughout all the deferred period the GP sick note all refer to work related stress 
being the reason for Mr S absence and inability to work. 
Mr S therapist diagnosed him with Generalised Anxiety Disorder that was triggered 
by pressure and stress caused at his workplace as a result of many changes in the 
company structure. She also stated prior to these changes he confirmed he has not 
experienced such symptoms.
Ive carefully considered Mr S concerns about his depression not being taken 
account of. I can see the occupational health report from March 2019 states he is 
depressed and unable to undertake his duties in the workplace due to poor 
concentration. However, the report also concludes that there is no doubt that the 
conclusion of the disciplinary process will greatly assist his recovery. This supports 
my opinion that Mr S symptoms are predominantly related to his workplace situation. 
The consultant psychiatrists opinion in February 2020 was that Mr S suffering was 
from a moderate depressive episode from May 2018. But he again relates this 
depression back to Mr Ms work stating its because he was constantly struggling to 
cope with the pressure at work.
I note Mr S has been prescribed antidepressants since February 2019, but this is 
after the deferred period and isnt enough to satisfy the claim. 
Based on the above, I think it was reasonable for Unum to say that the work-related issues 
caused Mr S to become unwell. And this was why he was unable to work. 
Ive considered all the available evidence including anything outside of the deferred period. 
And I conclude Mr S has clearly been suffering from symptoms of stress, anxiety and 
depression. But in order to be eligible for benefit under the terms of the policy, the medical 
evidence would have to show that Mr S was also unable to carry out the material and 
substantial duties of his role as a group accountant because of this. 
Our investigator said Mr S could have undertaken his role for another employer. As this 
policy isnt specific to Mr S occupation with his current employer, Mr S would need to 
demonstrate he is unable to work in his role as a group accountant for any employer, due to 
his illness. And he hasnt done that in this claim because all his symptoms are reportedly 
triggered by actions of his current employer. So its reasonable to conclude that a change in employer would have removed the barriers 
to work. This is because Mr Ss anxiety as a result of his work-related stress and impending 
disciplinary proceedings wouldnt have been present at a different employer. 
I note Mr S comments that even when he was off work and out of that specific work 
environment, he was still unwell. However, he was still employed for 14 months whilst being 
signed off and had contact with his employer during this time, including discussions around 
trying to continue with the disciplinary proceedings against him  something that wouldve 
understandably caused stress and anxiety for Mr S.  
In this case, Im satisfied Mr S work place issues were the barrier to him returning to work. 
And Im persuaded its most likely Mr S wouldve been capable of working and fulfilling the 
material duties of his occupation, had he not felt so stressed and unhappy about his 
employer. As such, Im satisfied Unum has declined this claim fairly because Mr S did not 
meet the policy terms. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman