DRN-2811621
The complaint
Ms M complains about two credit card accounts she had with MBNA Limited. Shes unhappy 
about the way MBNA dealt with her requests to settle the accounts. In particular, she 
believes MBNA didnt do what it said it would and Ms M didnt receive a call back to inform 
her of her outstanding balance; MBNA harassed her for further payment after the accounts 
should have been closed and MBNA delayed sending an account closure letter. 
What happened
Ms M had two credit card accounts with MBNA. I understand the accounts had not been 
used for some time and Ms M wanted to clear the balances and settle both accounts. Ms M 
called MBNA to explain that she was selling her house and she was looking to clear the 
balances on her MBNA accounts, plus other accounts, and that it was a condition of her new 
mortgage provider that all accounts were settled in full on completion day. 
It was for this reason that Ms M was looking for a full settlement figure for both accounts on 
her expected move date. During a call with MBNA Ms M was told that an exact settlement 
amount could not be provided in advance of the settlement date. But, an estimated amount 
could be provided. 
Although payments were made to settle the two MBNA accounts the amounts werent 
sufficient to settle the accounts in full. This resulted in MBNA contacting Ms M about the 
balances. Ms M says that MBNA had agreed to call her if the accounts had a remaining 
balance after the payments to the accounts were made, but it didnt. So she was unaware of 
the outstanding balances. Ms M says that she felt she was being harassed by MBNA when it 
then contacted her about the outstanding balances and this added to what was already a 
stressful time. 
MBNA did write off the remaining interest on the two accounts and Ms M asked MBNA to 
send her confirmation that the two accounts had in fact now been closed. But the letter was 
not sent immediately and Ms M says that this additional delay caused her further worry. 
Ms Ms complaint was considered by two investigators, but Ms M remained unhappy with the 
conclusions reached. Ms M asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, as 
shes entitled to do, so the complaint has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to similar overall conclusions to those already set out by the 
investigators and while I appreciate this decision will likely come as further disappointment to 
Ms M, I have not upheld the complaint. 
Ms M explained to MBNA that she was moving house and as part of that process funds were 
being used to settle her two MBNA accounts, along with other accounts too. She explained it 
was a condition of the mortgage that the account balances be settled in full on completion 
date, so that remaining funds could then be used for the purchase of her new property. 
Moving house is very stressful and I can fully appreciate why Ms M was keen to know what 
the future balances on her two MBNA accounts would be on the future completion date. I 
can also appreciate that she would have been disappointed that MBNA couldnt give her an 
exact figure when she had been given this information on at least one of her other credit 
card accounts. 
MBNA did however explain this in one of its calls to Ms M and it was explained that Ms M 
should pay a specific sum for each account and should this result in an overpayment then 
any money would be paid back to Ms M. 
Ms M said that she understood that MBNA would call her if the settlement payments were 
insufficient to settle both accounts in full and that as she did not receive a call she didnt 
initially realise that the accounts werent settled. From the calls that I have listened to Im not 
persuaded that MBNA did say that it would call Ms M if the accounts werent settled and it 
appears that Ms M is likely mistaken in her recollection of that conversation. 
As Ms Ms account balances werent cleared in full the accounts remained open. While I can 
understand why Ms M may not have wanted to use her online account to check the 
balances, had she done so it would have indicated amounts remained outstanding on both 
accounts. As the amounts remained outstanding MBNA contacted Ms M to inform her of this. 
While I note Ms M believes she was harassed by MBNA I dont agree that was the case and 
from what I have seen MBNA acted reasonably in the way it informed Ms M of the 
outstanding balance. 
Having considered the way MBNA dealt with Ms M in the initial call and in contacting her 
about the outstanding balance Im satisfied it acted reasonably in the circumstances. 
MBNA has since written off the outstanding interest on both accounts, amounting to around 
£130, as a gesture of goodwill and this is more than reasonable in my view. Ms M has also 
received confirmation that both accounts have been settled in full and are now closed. I 
appreciate this closure letter took approximately one month to send and MBNA has said this 
was due to the impact of the global pandemic on its business. MBNA has however paid Ms 
M £100 in recognition of the delay in sending the letter and Im satisfied this is more than 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ms complaint. 
I appreciate Ms M remains unhappy with the £100 but I dont consider there to be any 
reasonable grounds to instruct MBNA to increase this sum. Especially when also considering 
MBNA wrote off around £130 in interest that would have been due on the accounts. 
My final decision
While I again appreciate Ms M will remain unhappy with the decision I have reached here, 
for the reasons I have set out I have not upheld this complaint and MBNA is not required to 
do anything more than it has already done.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman