DRN-3613665
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank hasnt dealt with 
his financial difficulties fairly and has reported a default in relation to the account with credit 
reference agencies.
What happened
Mr G took out a personal loan with Tesco in 2017. The first two payments were missed when 
his direct debits were returned unpaid. Mr G contacted Tesco to find out how to make 
payments through online banking and he cleared the arrears in February 2018. Between 
March 2018 and December 2018, there were a number of calls between Mr G and Tesco 
where various plans were agreed. On many occasions, Mr G either didnt make payments, 
or didnt make them for the agreed amounts. He often told Tesco that he was waiting for help 
from his family to be able to make payments.
In January 2019, a further three-month plan was agreed, on the basis that his parents would 
help him after selling their house. Mr G made payments in line with this plan. Between April 
2019 and April 2020, more plans were also discussed and agreed. Tesco also mentioned 
the possibility that it might take action to default the account. But in August 2020, it 
confirmed to him that the account would be terminated, and the default registered, unless 
the arrears could be cleared. The default was registered in September 2020.
Mr G complained to Tesco about this, but it thought it had acted fairly. Mr G brought his 
complaint to this service where our investigator looked at it and thought Tesco had acted in 
line with the relevant guidance in terms of dealing with Mr Gs financial difficulties and 
defaulting the account. Mr G disagreed and so his complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
to reach a final decision on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that my summary in the background above covers a lot of events that took place 
over a number of years. Ive focused on the key events though, which is in line with our role 
as a quick and informal dispute resolution service. If I havent specifically referenced 
something, that doesnt mean I havent had regard for it  I have  it just means that I 
havent needed to refer to it in order to explain the decision I have here.
In my view Tesco has acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mr G. The relevant 
legislation (the Consumer Credit sourcebook CONC) says that a lender must treat 
customers in Mr Gs position with forbearance and due consideration. Its clear to me that 
Tesco has done that here. It has agreed a number of plans with Mr G based on what hes 
told it and been willing to renegotiate these, even when he hasnt stuck to the agreed terms 
 which I think is a fair approach.
I realise that Mr G has tried his best to keep Tesco up to date with his circumstances. He 
has told Tesco about his plans to try and repay whats owed and address the arrears. But 
much of this seems to be based around the help of family, rather than his own ability to pay. 
And I cant see that over the years since taking the loan, that any of this help has 
materialised in a way that means hes been able to repay what was outstanding on the loan 
in the way Tesco needed him to.
So by August 2020, Tesco took the decision to transfer Mr Gs loan to a recovery agent and 
to record the account as having defaulted with the credit reference agencies. The relevant 
guidance here says that an account should generally be reported as defaulted when 
between three to six months of arrears have built up, or payments missed for that time. By 
August 2020, there were significant arrears on the account and Mr G hadnt made a 
contractual payment for a substantial period time.
Mr G didnt repay the amount stated in the default notice and so Tesco took the further 
actions outlined in the letter it sent about this. In the overall circumstances here, I think by 
this point, it was clear that Mr Gs financial difficulties were long term and where thats the 
case, its fair to do what Tesco did here. This will have an impact on Mr Gs credit file, but it 
accurately reflects the conduct of the account and should also mean that Mr G is able to 
make more affordable payments going forwards.
Mr G has said that Tesco gave incorrect advice around a plan that was agreed and later 
went back on. This was considered as a separate complaint by this service, so I wont 
consider those issues again here. I do note though that this happened prior to Tesco issuing 
the default notice here and that Tesco explained what the correct situation was at the point 
he raised this. So having considered everything that happened here, Im satisfied that in all 
the circumstances, Tesco was entitled to default the account and that it did so fairly.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman