DRN-3087229
The complaint
Mr S complains that Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) did not clearly explain that the 
Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) quotations it provided were not guaranteed and 
would be recalculated before being paid.
Mr S is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
Mr S held a deferred annuity with PIC.
In July 2019, Mr S asked PIC what the CETV was for the deferred annuity he held with it. 
PIC said the current CETV was £217,203 and it explained that this figure wasnt guaranteed.
In September 2019, Mr S contacted PIC twice about the CETV for his deferred annuity. 
In the first call on 13 September Mr S was told the CETV was £229,188. PIC again 
confirmed that this value wasnt guaranteed and explained that the CETV would be 
recalculated before it was paid. It said the factors for calculating the transfer value came into 
force on the15th of each month.
In the second call on 17 September, PIC said the CETV was £238,382. It again confirmed 
that the CETV wasnt guaranteed and that the factors used to calculate the transfer value 
changed on a monthly basis.
On 2 October 2019, Mr Ss IFA, contacted PIC about the CETV and asked for an up-to-date 
transfer value to be emailed to it. Mr Ss IFA says that during this call it was told the CETV 
wouldnt change until the end of the month. 
On 23 October Mr S contacted PIC to ask if the transfer form had been received and if the 
transfer value had changed. PIC confirmed the transfer form had been received on 22 
October 2019. It explained that new factors for calculating CETVs had come into force on 17 
October 2019 and that the transfer value of Mr Ss deferred annuity had reduced to 
£231,721.
Mr Ss IFA complaint to PIC on Mr Ss behalf. It said if felt that due to failings in PICs 
administration and communication it was not aware that the transfer value it received on 3 
October could change before the end of the month. It said that in the call it had with PIC on 2 
October it had been told that the transfer value would not be subject to a further actuarial 
change until the end of October 2019.
It said that, based on this information it felt it had;
reasonable time to carry out our due diligence research, produce a recommendation, 
explain this face to face with our client, conclude a decision, obtain all the appropriate 
signatures and return the necessary documentation and associated discharge forms to PIC 
in a timely manner who confirmed receipt on the 21st October 2019. This was well within the 
guaranteed window communicated for holding the documented Transfer Value.
It said it accepted that there was no malicious intent. But it said that it felt that due to failings 
on PICs part Mr Ss transfer value had been reduced from £238,382 to £231,721. It said it 
felt PIC should honour the higher transfer value and pay a further £6,661.
Our investigator considered Mr Ss complaint. Having done so he said he didnt think Mr Ss 
complaint against PIC should be upheld as he didnt think it had done anything wrong or 
provided incorrect information. 
In particular, he said having reviewed the evidence available and listened to the call 
recordings of the conversations Mr S and his IFA had with PIC in September and October 
2019 he couldnt safely find that PIC told Mr S, or his IFA that the transfer value was 
guaranteed or that it wouldnt change before the end of October 2019. He noted that PIC 
had explained on several occasions that the CETV would be recalculated before the transfer 
went ahead and was not guaranteed. 
He also noted that Mr S had contacted PIC on 23 October 2019 to ask what the transfer 
value was and was told that it had reduced from the CETV quoted in early October 2019.
Mr Ss IFA did not accept our investigators view. It said, in summary:
I do appreciate that none of this was done with any malice but still feel strongly that if PIC 
had not given mixed messages regarding how long the CETV value would be honoured then 
Mr Ss expectations could have been managed in line with their company policy. Based on 
the feedback we received this was not made clear with various versions of how the rules 
would be applied been given. 
They confirmed that we were told that the value would remain the same or unlikely to 
change much if the papers were returned within the same month. Had the company policy 
been made known in absolute terms we would not have indicated to Mr S that we could 
complete the paperwork before any adjustment would be made to the CETV.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same view as our investigator, and for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ss position and I appreciate that he would like PIC to honour the 
higher CETV quotation. But in order to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that 
PIC had acted incorrectly or done something wrong.
Having listened to the recordings of the calls PIC had with Mr S and his IFA and having 
reviewed the information provided, I am satisfied that PIC did explain both verbally and in 
writing that the CETV in the quotations was not guaranteed and would be re-calculated 
before it was paid. I also note that PIC explained that if the transfer value fell by more than 
1% or £1,000, whichever was higher, it would contact Mr S to check that he still wanted to go 
ahead with the transfer.
I have carefully considered the points Mr Ss IFA has made in relation to whether the 
information PIC gave in the telephone calls was sufficiently clear. Having done so, I am 
satisfied that it was explained in each call I have listened to that the CETV was not 
guaranteed and would be recalculated before the transfer value was paid. I am also mindful that the written records clearly set out that the CETV was not guaranteed. 
In particular, I note that the Application to Proceed clearly set out:
Please transfer the value of my pension under the Policy named above to secure benefits in 
the receiving arrangement. The amount to be transferred is £238,382.47 which you have told 
me about separately.
I understand that the amount transferred may be higher or lower as the transfer 
values are not guaranteed and are recalculated before being paid.
(bold is my emphasis)
Likewise, the covering letter dated 3 October 2019 sent to Mr Ss IFA with the transfer value 
quotation set out:
The transfer value is not guaranteed and the final payment will be recalculated based on 
market conditions at the time the transfer is paid. The final transfer value may be higher or 
lower than the figure above.
And the quotation enclosed also set out:
The transfer value below is not guaranteed. 
The amount to be transferred may change (be higher or lower) as transfer values are not 
guaranteed and are recalculated before they are paid. 
So even if Mr S, or his IFA felt that the information they had been given during the phone 
calls with PIC was unclear, I am satisfied that PIC set out clearly, in writing, that the transfer 
value was not guaranteed. 
I do understand that Mr Ss IFA felt it needed some assurances regarding how long the 
transfer value would be honoured to ensure we could complete the necessary compliance 
processes to allow a recommendation to be made before the CETV changed.
But I am satisfied that PIC explained both verbally and in writing that the CETV quotations 
were not guaranteed and would be recalculated before the transfer value was paid. I 
appreciate that the lack of certainty made it more difficult for Mr Ss IFA to assess whether it 
was in Mr Ss best interests to transfer his deferred benefits, but I cant reasonably hold PIC 
responsible for this. 
Having carefully considered this matter I think PIC made it sufficiently clear to both Mr S and 
his IFA that the CETV was not guaranteed.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman