DRN-4225473
The complaint
Mr G complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money are not treating 
customers the same who hold offline accounts and online accounts. 
What happened
Mr G says he has been a Virgin Money customer for more than ten years. Recently he rang 
Virgin Money a number of times regarding his Individual Savings Account (ISA), where he 
had been on hold up to an hour sometimes. He says he holds an offline account, and the 
interest rate hasnt increased on the account despite the Bank of England base rate rising. 
Mr G made a complaint to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money partially upheld Mr Gs complaint. They offered him £25 compensation for the 
long holding times. They said interest rates offered on their products are ultimately business 
decisions made by them, so they would not be upholding this part of his complaint. Mr G 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Virgin Money said they would increase their offer of compensation to £50 as it took them 
almost 12 weeks to respond to Mr Gs complaint and because of the long hold times he had. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Gs complaint. He said the account Mr G holds has not 
been discontinued as it remains active. But to obtain an account with a higher rate of 
interest, Mr G would have to proactively arrange this, if his account no longer met his needs. 
He said Virgin Money provided further evidence to show that they wrote to Mr G on 1 
February 2021 to advise him they were reducing the interest rate on his cash ISA. The letter 
detailed his options and it was sent to Mr Gs registered address. He said Virgin Money 
should pay Mr G £50 compensation for the time it took them to respond to his complaint and 
the long waiting times he had getting through to a call handler.
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said Virgin Money treated their customers differently for online accounts and 
offline accounts and his account is an offline account. He said the interest rate has stayed 
the same and he should be treated the same as all other Virgin Money customers. He said 
he was told in a phone call last August that his offline ISA wouldnt apply the Bank of 
England base rate increases. Mr G asked why online and offline ISAs do not provide the 
same benefits and why Virgin Money keeps the interest rate so low.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business what 
interest rates they should pay on online/offline accounts  or to put it another way, accounts 
currently available for new/existing customers and accounts that arent available to open 
currently as this would be a commercial decision for Virgin Money to make. It would be the 
role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Virgin 
Money to make changes to how they apply interest rates for different types of accounts if 
necessary. 
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr G has regarding how Virgin Money treat their 
customers who have offline accounts and online accounts. The account Mr G has is active, 
and it comes with its own conditions which may be different to other accounts that are 
currently offered by Virgin Money with a higher interest rate. And it would be up to Mr G to 
be proactive with what type of account suits him best. The account he has does not appear 
to restrict transfers/withdrawals to accounts which Mr G considers to be online accounts. So 
Mr G is, and has been free at any time to transfer out of this account if he felt another 
account would suit him better and because of this Im persuaded that he would be treated 
the same as any other customer as long as he met the terms and conditions for any other 
account they offer. 
Virgin Money can make a commercial decision to choose what interest rate on an account 
should be. They are not obliged to mirror the Bank of England base rate with rises and falls. 
They can keep the interest rate level also, which is what they confirmed to Mr G in his 
August call. Virgin Money can choose to offer higher interest rates for accounts currently 
available to open for new/existing customers as opposed to accounts which are no longer 
available to open. 
I can see from the statements that Virgin Money have sent Mr G over the last few years that 
page two of the statement encourages him to Stay up to date with our Savings range and 
any important savings news. So if Mr G was in any doubt about the savings accounts that 
Virgin Money offered, he could have rung them on the telephone number provided in this 
section of his statement, visited their website or visited a Virgin Money branch as advised.
Virgin Moneys savings terms show that We can also decrease the interest rate. When we 
tell you will depend on the type of variable rate account you have. It appears that Mr G was 
informed that his interest rate was reducing on his ISA in February 2021. The letter 
encourages him to Have a think about what youd like to do with your savings, there are two 
months before the change becomes effective so there is plenty of time for you to decide 
what to do. It gave him options to either keep his existing account, move to another 
account, withdraw his money or close his account. It also gave him a telephone number 
which he could ring. So Im satisfied that Virgin Money informed him of his interest rate and 
told him that he was able to move to another account, so Im satisfied that Virgin Money kept 
him informed of the interest rate reduction in line with the terms of the account. 
Mr G has said that he had long waiting times and that he needed to bring his complaint to 
our service as Virgin Money hadnt responded to him in the eight weeks that they indicated 
they would. So I do think theyve let Mr G down here by providing poor customer service. Ive 
considered what would be a fair outcome for the poor customer service. Virgin Money have 
offered Mr G £50. Im persuaded that this is fair. I say this as £50 is in line with what our 
service would expect them to offer in these circumstances. Im satisfied that this recognises 
the impact that Mr G had as a result of the poor customer service and the inconvenience he 
suffered as a result of this. So it follows Virgin Money should put things right for Mr G.
Putting things right
Since this services involvement, Virgin Money have agreed to pay Mr G £50 for poor 
customer service, which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mr 
G £50 compensation (less anything they have already paid him) for poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman