DRN-1655077
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance, was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the car doesnt have the navigation system 
that Mr B says that hed discussed with the dealer;
Northridge Finance says that the dealer acknowledges that it did discuss the 
navigation system with Mr B and that it looked online with him to try to confirm details 
about the navigation system from the vehicle specification  and that it seemed from 
the manufacturers website that the system discussed with Mr B was included  but 
that it didnt give him any guarantee about that;
this is a finely balanced complaint but, having considered all of the evidence, I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the dealer gave incorrect information about 
the cars navigation system to Mr M and that he relied on that information when he 
entered into the hire purchase agreement; and
I find that the car was misrepresented to Mr B and that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for him to be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
Given the use that Mr B has had from the car, I dont consider that it would be appropriate 
for me to require Northridge Finance to provide Mr B with a replacement car. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to end the hire purchase agreement 
and to arrange for the car to be collected from Mr B  both at no cost to him. 
The invoice for the car shows that Mr B part-exchanged a car with a value of £400, that he 
also paid a cash deposit of £100 and that a further £200 was due from him. The hire 
purchase agreement confirms the part-exchange value and shows that Mr B paid a cash 
deposit of £300. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Northridge Finance to pay a 
total of £700 to Mr B to refund him for the part-exchange value and the deposit that he paid 
for the car  and that it should pay interest on that amount. 
Mr B has been able to use the car so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require Northridge Finance to refund to Mr B any of the monthly payments that hes 
made for the car  it can keep those payments for the use that hes had from the car. Nor do 
I consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Northridge Finance to pay 
Mr B any other compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I order N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as 
Northridge Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr B  both at no cost to him.
2. Pay £700 to Mr B to refund him for the part-exchange value and the cash deposit 
that he paid for the car.
3. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Northridge Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. Northridge Finance must give Mr B a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman