DRN-3233760
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc irresponsibly granted her a loan she couldnt
afford to repay.
What happened
The background to what led Mrs H to apply for a loan with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (Bank of
Ireland) is well-known to both parties so I wont be outlining that in my decision.
Mrs H successfully applied for a loan of £25,000 with Bank of Ireland in December 2019.
The terms of the agreement were that Mrs H would make monthly repayments of £627.80 for
four years and that she would repay a total of £30,134.40.
Mrs H complained to Bank of Ireland saying that they shouldnt have granted her the loan as
she couldnt afford it and that they hadnt carried out sufficient affordability checks. Bank of
Ireland didnt agree. They said they used the information provided by Mrs H at the point of
application and ran a credit check, from which they verified Mrs Hs address and income.
Bank of Ireland said that they carried out sufficient checks and didnt uphold Mrs Hs
complaint.
Mrs H didnt agree and asked our service to look at her complaint, which our investigator
upheld. Our investigator felt that Bank of Ireland didnt carry out proportionate checks to
determine that Mrs H was able to afford the agreement. In particular, and in summary, she
felt that Bank of Ireland should have carried out further checks on Mrs Hs income and that,
had they done so, would have seen that she couldnt afford the monthly payments.
Bank of Ireland didnt agree. They said that they had verified Mrs Hs declared income using
credit reference agency data and that further checks werent required or proportionate. Bank
of Ireland also said that they were entitled to rely on the information Mrs H gave them on her
application. And they said there was nothing of concern from the checks they did which
showed that Mrs H wouldnt be able to make the monthly repayments.
As agreement couldnt be reached between Mrs H and Bank of Ireland, Mrs Hs complaint
has been passed to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 November 2021, in which I said the following:
Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
These were the rules and guidelines set in place when Bank of Ireland agreed to provide the
loan to Mrs H.
Before granting credit, Bank of Ireland were required to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mrs Hs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often
referred to as an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it
needed to be concerned with whether Mrs H could sustainably afford the borrowing
(considering her specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to Bank of Ireland as the lender, but this is not necessarily the
same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors
such as, but not limited to:
The type and amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments; 
The duration of the agreement; 
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered
proportionate, as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and
proportionate check ought to be.
I am essentially considering in this decision whether Bank of Ireland completed reasonable
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H could repay the borrowing in a
sustainable way.
If I consider that Bank of Ireland carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, then I
need to consider whether they made a fair lending decision. If I dont consider that they
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, then I need to consider whether
reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown that Mrs H could sustainably repay
the borrowing.
Ive looked at the application form that was filled out and can see that Mrs Hs net income
was recorded as being £2,500 and that net overall household income was recorded as being
£3,500. There was a council tax commitment of £168 also recorded and a section for
monthly repayment loans, which I take to mean existing loans held by Mrs H, which was set
as £0. Mrs Hs employment details were recorded as well.
Bank of Ireland says they also carried out a credit check, but I gather they are unable to
send us the specific details of what they checked and what they saw. They also say they
used statistical data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to ascertain Mrs Hs non-
contractual essential living expenses.
I note that Bank of Ireland asked Mrs H to declare her income on the application and also
that they verified this using credit reference agency data.
CONC 5.2A.16(3) states:
For the purpose of considering the customers income.., it is not generally sufficient to rely
solely on a statement of current income made by the customers without independent
evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied by a credit reference agency or
documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or by the customer).
Im satisfied that Bank of Ireland did seek to verify Mrs Hs self-declared income using the
data it received from the credit reference agency they used. Furthermore, the income data
that was received broadly matched Mrs Hs self-declared income. So, I dont agree that Bankof Ireland should have carried out further checks by asking for specific evidence of Mrs Hs
employment or pay as our investigator suggested as I cant see any reason why they should
have done so. There were no obvious discrepancies that I can see from the information
Bank of Ireland gathered that would have warranted this.
Ive also considered Bank of Irelands estimates on Mrs Hs expenditure. Initially, they
carried out a credit check to determine Mrs Hs current level of indebtedness. As Ive already
mentioned, Bank of Ireland arent able to show us what they checked or what they saw from
that check. However, Mrs H has confirmed that there was nothing of concern on her credit
file (for example missed or late payments) or that she had a number of other existing credit
commitments that she was contractually bound to pay each month.
As part of what led Mrs H to apply for a loan with Bank of Ireland, she had very recently
successfully applied for a loan of the same value with another lender. However, that
happened a few days before the application with Bank of Ireland. As Ive already mentioned,
I dont know what Bank of Ireland saw from the credit check. However, Mrs Hs application
did state that she had no existing loans to repay. And I think it more likely than not that the
loan with the other lender wouldnt have appeared on Bank of Irelands credit check. 
Generally, credit references agencies report updated information on someones credit file
every 28 days. As this other loan was new and taken out very shortly before the loan with
Bank of Ireland, this wasnt likely to have been shown on Mrs Hs credit file at that point. I
havent seen any evidence that would lead me to think differently here. So, Im satisfied that
Bank of Ireland couldnt have taken the proposed loan repayments for the other loan into
account.
Ive noted Bank of Irelands comments around the use of ONS statistical data and agree that
the Financial Conduct Authority considers the use of that to be a reasonable way to assess
creditworthiness and affordability. There is a rather significant caveat to that though.
Although the Financial Conduct Authority has said this might be reasonable in some
circumstances, it has also said it isnt reasonable if the firm knows or ought reasonably to
suspect that the statistical data is unlikely to be representative of the consumers specific
circumstances.
However, bearing in mind Im satisfied there was likely nothing of concern that would have
come about from Bank of Irelands credit check, then I find it difficult to say that Bank of
Ireland should have suspected that the data they were using wasnt likely to be a reasonable
approximation of Mrs Hs circumstances. I think that assessing statistical data was therefore
proportionate in the circumstances and that Bank of Ireland was entitled to use the
disposable income figure they gleaned after that assessment, being just under £1,300. I can
see also that Bank of Ireland took Mrs Hs joint monthly mortgage and council tax payments
into account before determining the level of likely disposable income she had left.
So, although the proposed monthly repayment of £627.80 was clearly going to be a
significant commitment, Im satisfied that Bank of Irelands checks were proportionate and
that they made a fair lending decision based on those checks. I currently therefore dont
intend to uphold this complaint.
I asked both parties for their comments on my provisional decision.
Bank of Ireland didnt reply.
Mrs H didnt agree. She said, in summary:There were a few discrepancies on the loan application form that Bank of Ireland 
should have spotted. In particular, that the salary was her husbands and their old 
address was used.
She was manipulated by the person who encouraged her to apply for the loan and 
who sent the application through to Bank of Ireland.
Bank of Ireland should have taken her combined expenses with her husband into 
account bearing in mind they did the same with their combined income.
Bank of Ireland should have taken broadband, mobile phone, clothing and family 
expenses into account as well as basic household expenses included in ONS 
statistics.
FCA guidelines state that Bank of Ireland should have obtained independent 
verification of her credit status as well as proof of this from an independent third 
party.
Bank of Ireland basing their lending decision on statistics doesnt seem like sound 
practice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive set out my provisional findings on this complaint as set out above and I havent been 
persuaded that my decision should change. I will though set out my thoughts on Mrs Hs 
reply to my provisional decision. 
I realise that what ultimately led Mrs H to take out the loan with Bank of Ireland was down to 
the person who encouraged her to do so and who, it appears, actually applied for the loan 
on her behalf using particular pieces of information such as her income. I am sorry for what 
happened to Mrs H as it seems clear she has been manipulated by the individual in question 
as she has said. However, Bank of Ireland would not have known that this was happening, 
and I dont think there was anything that should have alerted them to this. I think Bank of 
Ireland was entitled to rely, at least to a degree, on the information that was being sent to 
them and which, from what they assumed, was information given by Mrs H.
I say to a degree because if there were fairly clear discrepancies from the information given 
to them or inconsistencies, then Bank of Ireland should have acted upon them, either by 
checking that information or asking questions about it. 
However, I dont agree that Bank of Ireland should have noticed that Mrs Hs income was 
different to what was declared. They determined that from the credit check they did, and this 
matched what had been declared. I see no reason why that should have prompted them to 
check this. From that, they then used ONS data to take into account Mrs Hs likely non-
contractual expenditure. I think this was reasonable to do bearing in mind that there were no 
indications that Mrs H had any other form of regular credit commitment (like loans or credit 
cards). 
I dont agree that Bank of Ireland shouldnt have used ONS data here. As Ive mentioned, 
the FCA permits such use. The obvious drawback with that is that it isnt going to set out 
exactly what someones actual expenditure is, so although I have seen the data that Bank of 
Ireland used, there is little point in sending that data to Mrs H. And there will be occasions 
where use of that data isnt proportionate for a particular individual where a lender is 
considering a loan application. 
But here, bearing in mind what the credit check likely told Bank of Ireland in that there were 
no signs that Mrs H had other essential contractual credit commitments such as existing loans or credit cards, using ONS data doesnt to me feel unreasonable or disproportionate. 
And I havent seen any evidence that Bank of Ireland used incorrect data. 
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I find that Bank of Ireland 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Hs application. So, I 
do not uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman