DRN-2933961
The complaint
Mrs R complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
In 1993, Mrs R was sold a PPI policy over the telephone to provide cover for a store card 
that she had.
AXA has responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint  so I will refer to AXA in my 
decision
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think that the PPI had been mis-sold to 
Mrs R.
Mrs R disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case. Having done so, Ive decided that the 
PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs R  so Ill explain why.
Theres not much information available from the time the policy was sold to Mrs R  but this 
isnt unusual for a sale that took place so long ago  and businesses arent required to keep 
records indefinitely. And Mrs R doesnt remember much from the sale either. So, I cant say 
that Mrs R wasnt given a choice in taking out the PPI, and I cant uphold her complaint for 
this reason. I also think that its likely that as the PPI was sold separately to the store card, 
over the phone, Mrs R wouldve known that she didnt need to take out PPI in order to get 
the store card. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI policy to Mrs R  so it didnt need to make sure that it was 
right for her  but it did need to give Mrs R enough information for her to decide if she 
thought it was right for her.
Its possible that some of the information AXA gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it could have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
I have considered what Mrs R has said about the sick pay she says she was entitled to from 
her employer  but while this service has sought clarification about this entitlement, we have 
not received a reply. And from what shes said about her employer and role at the time, it 
does seem unusually generous  so without further information, I cant say that this meant 
that she didnt have a need for the PPI.
Other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission where PPI was sold. 
But AXA wasnt Mrs Rs lender  so these rules dont apply here. Mrs R could approach her 
lender about this, if she hasnt done so already  but as the FCA introduced a deadline for 
new PPI complaints, including those about commission which came in to effect in August 
2019, it is likely that the complaint will be too late. 
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman