DRN-1902066
 
 
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr K are unhappy that they paid an early repayment charge (ERC) on their 
Halifax-branded Bank of Scotland plc mortgage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Mrs D and Mr K's mortgage is split into two sub-accounts. The second sub-account had an 
ERC until 31 July 2023 and that's not in dispute. So, for ease of reading I'll "ignore" the 
second sub-account in this decision and only make reference to the first sub-account and its 
ERC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In November 2018 Halifax issued a mortgage offer to Mrs D and Mr K, which they accepted. 
The offer said, in section seven:
7. Early repayment
You have the right to repay this loan early, either fully or partially.
Early repayment charge:
2.00% of the amount repaid on or before 31/01/20
1.30% of the amount repaid on or before 31/01/21
This was the contract Mrs D and Mr K entered into, and it was clear there would be an ERC 
until 31 January 2021.
Mrs D and Mr K have said the Halifax portal for mortgage brokers was misleading as it just 
showed the ERC until 31 January 2020. Whilst I've regard for their testimony, it doesn't alter 
the outcome of their complaint. That's because even if the portal was misleading (which I'm 
not making a finding on either way, because I don't need to) it's what we'd call a 
misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of that type, we consider the 
appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect 
information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had 
been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Mrs D and Mr K would have been reminded the 
contract theyd entered into had an ERC until 31 January 2021. Mrs D and Mr K could never 
have been in the position where they could have remortgaged in February 2020 without 
incurring an ERC. As Mrs D and Mr K were reminded about the ERC in the contract they'd 
entered into before they completed their remortgage, they had the option to withdraw from 
that transaction. I can't hold Halifax liable for their decision to proceed with it, and the fact 
they then incurred the ERC.
Mrs D and Mr K have said they know banks are helping their customers during the current 
difficult events, and they'd expect the same from their bank. I'm not sure theres any 
connection between the current pandemic and Mrs D and Mr K choosing to complete their 
remortgage at the start of February 2020 despite by that time knowing they'd incur the 
ERC in their existing contract. But if Mrs D and Mr K are struggling financially, they should 
contact their current mortgage lender (to which they remortgaged in February 2020) and/or 
any other creditors they may have. 
Halifax did nothing wrong in charging Mrs D and Mr K the ERC as that was a part of the 
contract they had entered into, and therefore there are simply no grounds for me to order it 
be refunded either in full or in part. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mrs D and Mr K to decide if - on reflection - they 
wish to contact Halifax directly to accept the £75 offer put forward in its response to the 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman