DRN-4155706
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds decision to deem her vehicle 
a total loss after she made a claim under her motor insurance policy. 
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
Mrs W made a claim under her motor insurance policy with Admiral after accidentally 
damaging her car door. Admiral decided to settle Mrs Ws claim on a total loss basis as it 
deemed the vehicle uneconomical to repair.
Mrs W didnt agree that her car was a total loss. She raised a complaint with Admiral and 
provided an estimate of repair shed obtained from a garage. 
Admiral maintained its position. It said it had spoken to an in-house engineer who had 
reviewed the estimate Mrs W had provided as well as the estimate from Admirals approved 
repairer. It said the estimate from Mrs Ws garage didnt cover all of the damage caused in 
the accident. The garage would repair the door when Admiral, as an insurance company, 
would replace the door for safety reasons.
Mrs W remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. Our investigator 
didnt think her complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral had acted fairly and 
reasonably and had taken appropriate action in the circumstances.
Mrs W disagreed with our investigators outcome. She provided a report from an 
independent engineer, which she said confirmed that the car shouldnt be categorised as a 
salvage category N. She said shed been advised that Admiral should complete repairs as 
required by the contract theyd entered.
Our investigator shared the new information Mrs W had provided with Admiral and gave it 
the opportunity to comment. After considering the report and the businesss comments, the 
investigator told Mrs W he still didnt believe her complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs W asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. She said 
she had a legal contract in force which required Admiral to repair the car. She said if Admiral 
does not intend to repair the car it is unable to deem the car a write-off and its categorisation 
should be removed. 
Mrs W said the independent engineer had confirmed that her vehicle was not a total loss 
salvage category N. She noted that our investigator hadnt commented on the lower repair 
estimates shed provided. She said Admiral hadnt seen the car and asked our investigator 
to provide copies of the images hed relied upon. She provided some further comments from 
the independent engineer and referred to case law she felt was relevant.
As Mrs W disagrees with our investigators outcome, her complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered everything Mrs W has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to what 
I believe to be the crux of her complaint. I wish to reassure Mrs W Ive read and considered 
everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, 
it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to 
reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service.
The policys terms and conditions say:
(Admiral) will decide how to settle your claim and will either pay:
to repair your vehicle
a cash sum to replace the damaged vehicle.
Mrs Ws main concern appears to be the reduction in the value of her car because of 
Admirals decision that her vehicle be written-off rather than repaired. I can see that Admiral 
informed Mrs W there was a legal requirement to declare the previous total loss should she 
decide to sell the car. 
Admirals records show that it recorded the vehicle as salvage category N on the Motor 
Insurance Anti-Fraud Theft Register (MIAFTR).
Its not unusual for insurers to decide a vehicle is uneconomical to repair once the repair 
costs reach around 60 to 70% of its pre-accident value. Admirals engineers estimated the 
cost of repairs to be around 65% of the vehicles pre-accident value. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to have decided to declare the vehicle a total loss.
Mrs W has provided a desk top report from an independent engineer which says:
This vehicle is clearly a repairable prospect, thus; there are no requirements to record it on 
M.I.A.F.T.R (Motor Insurers Anti-fraud & theft register) as a category N total loss. 
However, Admiral doesnt dispute that the vehicle is repairable. Rather, its chosen not to 
repair it.
MIAFTRs definition of a category N vehicle is: Repairable vehicle which has not sustained 
damage to the structural frame or chassis and the insurer / self-insured owner has decided 
not to repair the vehicle.
So, Admiral appears to have categorised the damaged vehicle in accordance with MIAFTRs 
definition.
The independent engineers report is showing different figures for both the value of the 
vehicle and estimated cost of repairs to what is on Admirals report. However, the 
independent engineers report estimates the repair costs to be 62% of its valuation. So, based on these figures, I think it would still be reasonable for Admiral to deem the vehicle a 
total loss.
I appreciate the independent engineers opinion was that there was no need to record the 
vehicle on MIAFTR as the vehicle could be repaired. However, the terms of the policy allow 
Admiral to decide whether to repair the vehicle or pay a cash sum to replace it. 
Mrs W has provided repair estimates from garages that are significantly lower than the 
estimates of Admiral and the independent engineer. However, Admiral has commented that 
these dont cover the whole of the damage or the replacement of the damaged door. It says 
as an insurer it would need to replace the door for safety reasons. 
Mrs W has questioned why the vehicle was able to pass its MOT. But Admiral says MOTs 
have different criteria to be passed and a dented door would not necessarily affect this. Ive 
no reason to doubt the expertise of Admirals engineer who determined that the door needed 
to be replaced. The independent engineers report doesnt contradict this.
Admiral has given Mrs W the option of retaining the vehicle and accepting a cash settlement 
with an amount deducted for the salvage value. This would allow her to arrange her own 
repairs if she wants to. She also has the option of accepting a cash settlement based on the 
market value of the vehicle and allowing Admiral to dispose of it. I think this is fair.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mrs W, but I think Admiral has acted fairly 
and reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman