DRN-4409621
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Vitality Health Limited trading as Vitality Health (Vitality) 
declined their travel insurance claim.
Any reference to Vitality includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have worldwide annual multi-trip travel insurance. Vitality is the underwriter.
The policy covers Mr and Mrs D and their two children.
Mr and Mrs D, with their two children, went on their 13-day road trip as planned on 
2 August 2022. Mrs D was selected for random Covid-19-19 testing upon arrival at their 
destination. They stayed the first night and day in the hotel as they had planned. Later, 
Mrs D was informed that she had tested positive for Covid-19-19 and had to isolate.
Mr and Mrs D and their family found alternative accommodation. They drove 13 hours to 
another part of the country and stayed there for the remaining part of Mrs Ds isolation 
period. Mrs D informed Vitality of what had happened and kept it updated on their situation.
After the isolation period, the family booked different accommodation to where Mrs D had 
isolated for the eight days. They also changed their return flight from the original city theyd 
booked to one near where they stayed. They returned to the UK on the same day that theyd 
initially planned, and the trip return date stayed the same although from a different location.
Upon their return, Mr and Mrs D submitted a claim to Vitality. It initially accepted the claim to 
cover Mrs Ds portion of the quarantine accommodation costs. After a further review, Vitality 
said the information given to Mr and Mrs D on the telephone by one of its advisors wasnt 
clear when explaining the cover that was available. So, Vitality offered to also pay Mr Ds 
costs for the quarantine accommodation and the flight amendment fees they incurred. The 
offers were made as a gesture of goodwill.
And after a third review, Vitality declined the claim altogether because it says Mrs D should 
have isolated near or at the destination city they arrived and followed the governments 
guidelines. If they had done this, the additional costs, including the flight amendment fees, 
would not have been incurred. So, Vitality didnt think the claim was covered and says there 
are inconsistencies in Mr and Mrs Ds account of what happened, compared to the evidence 
it has.
Unhappy with Vitalitys response, Mr and Mrs D brought their complaint to this service. They 
say they want Vitality to accept their claim and settle it fully to cover the cost of the original 
holiday, the additional quarantine accommodation, the travel expenses and additional costs 
they incurred. They would also like to be compensated for the trouble and upset they been 
put through.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She upheld it and recommended that Vitality 
re-assess the full claim Mr and Mrs D made. She thought the exclusion applied by Vitality for 
contracting Covid-19-19 as a known event since March 2020 wasnt fair or reasonable. She 
said there isnt anything specific in the exclusion that says costs related to contracting Covid-
19-19 will be excluded.
She said it wasnt fair for Vitality to exclude the claim because of lack of enjoyment as 
Mr and Mrs Ds costs include various unused and non-refundable bookings which are 
insured costs.
She also recommended that Vitality pay £300 compensation for errors made which could 
have been avoided and for the trouble and upset caused.
Vitality didnt agree with the investigators assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. It maintained the full claim is declined. So, the complaint was 
passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 August 2023. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key dispute on this complaint is that Vitality has declined Mr and Mrs Ds full claim on 
their travel insurance policy. I have to therefore decide whether the claim has been declined 
fairly and in line with their policy terms and conditions.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs D. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds travel insurance policy 
as this forms the basis of their contract with Vitality.
Exclusion for Covid-19 being a known event
Vitality has applied an overall exclusion to the policy and says this applies to all parts of the 
benefits on the policy.
These exclusions on Mr and Mrs Ds travel policy are on page 14. They include:
Claims arising from circumstances which could reasonably have been foreseen 
before you arranged or started your holiday or business trip.
The cost of food and drinks.
Claims for telephone calls other than calls to Vitality Health or our travel assistance provider and where clear, itemised invoices are sent in.
Vitality says Covid-19 has been a known event since 17 March 2020 and contracting 
Covid-19, and any costs related to this, are to be expected and is a known risk of travel.
Ive considered whether excluding the entire claim under the above is fair and reasonable.
And I dont think it is. I say this because Mr and Mrs D booked their trip before they knew 
random Covid-19 testing would take place at their arrival destination. And while there was a 
possibility that one of the family members may be randomly selected for testing upon arrival 
at the country, there was no way of knowing that one of them would test positive. Mrs D was 
selected for the random testing, and the event of contracting Covid-19 didnt happen until the 
point that she tested positive. So, I dont agree that the event was foreseen or known before 
the holiday was arranged or started. I dont think the claim arose from circumstances which 
could reasonably have been foreseen. There is nothing in the exclusion to specifically say 
costs related to contracting Covid-19 are excluded under Mr and Mrs Ds travel policy. Im 
therefore not persuaded that the full claim can be excluded for this reason. Ive therefore 
gone on to look at the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Cancelling the trip or cutting it short benefit
On page 8, under the Cancelling the trip or cutting it short section, it states:
Whats covered
This applies if you have to cancel the holiday or business trip, or have to cut it short or 
change the itinerary after the departure date as a direct and necessary result of any of the 
following:
You or any person you intend to travel with, [], being placed in quarantine [].
Page 10 of the policy booklet explains the benefits available under the policy. Under the 
section Cancelling the trip and cutting it short, it says we will pay for the portion of your 
transport or accommodation that has been paid for, but which has not been used. We will 
also pay for any advance payments for trips or excursions you are unable to take.
Having considered the above term under Mr and Mrs Ds travel policy, its clear that cover is 
available if an insured person has been placed in quarantine. Ive also taken into account 
that Vitality says this section of the policy is not available to Mr and Mrs D and their family 
because lack of enjoyment of the trip is not covered and is a specific exclusion under this 
benefit. As far as I can see, the policy terms and conditions for this section says cover is 
available if a policyholder has been placed in quarantine. Mrs D was placed in quarantine 
and therefore cover is available for this under the policy. I agree that there is no cover for 
lack of enjoyment but there is cover available for unused accommodation as well as unused 
costs for trips and excursions while being placed in quarantine. Im not persuaded that 
excluding the claim on this term is fair and reasonable.
Overseas and other medical expenses benefit
Vitality says it has given a concession to its customers to consider Covid-19 related claims 
under the Overseas and other medical expenses cover on page 7. I cant see this 
concession is stated anywhere in the policy.
In any case, under this section, there is cover under the policy for:The reasonable additional accommodation costs and travelling expenses for one 
person required on medical advice to travel to, or remain behind with, a sick or 
injured insured person who is travelling for pleasure.
The reasonable additional accommodation costs if you or your insured dependent 
are required on medical advice to stay beyond your scheduled return date, until you 
are fit to return to the UK. Additional accommodation should be of the same standard 
as the accommodation booked for the scheduled part of the trip.
Additionally, on page 11 where the overseas and other medical expenses benefit is 
explained, it says: in the event that you are not well enough to return to the UK on your 
scheduled return date, your plan covers the reasonable costs of additional accommodation 
for you, plus any additional costs that you need to pay to rearrange your passage back to the 
UK.
Vitality says there is no cover under this section. This is because theres no evidence that 
one person was required to stay with Mrs D and had to do so based on medical advice. And 
Vitality says Mrs D and the rest of the family did not stay beyond their scheduled return date.
And they also booked accommodation for the isolation period which wasnt of the same 
standard as the accommodation booked for the original, scheduled part of the trip. So, 
Vitality says this benefit isnt available for what happened in Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances.
Ive considered the above term. I agree there is no cover available under this section of the 
policy. Based on the information available, theres no evidence to show that Mr D (and the 
children) had to remain with Mrs D because of medical advice. I can see that the countrys 
government regulations stated that the isolation period was to start as soon as Mrs D was 
aware she had tested positive for Covid-19. But the family travelled together in one car for 
approximately 13 hours. Then, after having arrived at their new destination, Mrs D isolated in 
their newly booked accommodation. Based strictly on the policy term, theres no evidence to 
show that the rest of the family needed to remain with Mrs D from the point of her testing 
positive and that it was based on medical advice.
Additionally, this benefit is only available if Mr and Mrs D had to stay beyond their scheduled 
return date and the accommodation booked was of the same standard as the original 
scheduled trip. They didnt stay beyond their scheduled return date, and they didnt book 
accommodation of the same standard while Mrs D was isolating.
Im satisfied there is therefore no cover under this benefit for Mr and Mrs D and their 
children.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ds travel policy in its entirety. The only section where 
cover is available is under the Cancelling your trip or cutting it short benefit.
Mrs D had to go into quarantine due to testing positive for Covid-19. So, unused costs 
associated with having to change their itinerary are covered under the policy. And I think its 
fair and reasonable that costs associated are covered for Mr and Mrs D and their children for 
reasons I will go on to explain.
When Mrs D tested positive and found out she needed to isolate, she contacted Vitality to 
update it and their travel agent who booked them new accommodation. This was so Mrs D 
could isolate, and the family could enjoy the rest of their trip in the one place. The new 
accommodation was not of the same standard as the original booking. The family then travelled together in the same car for approximately 13 hours and arrived at their new 
accommodation where they stayed for eight nights until Mrs Ds isolation period had been 
completed. They stayed at different accommodation for the next three nights and then 
returned to the UK as planned on their original scheduled return date. They paid additional 
costs for the new accommodation. They changed their flights to return from where they were 
staying in the new area so incurred costs for amending these too.
From the information available, it's not entirely clear exactly what amounts Mr and Mrs D are 
claiming for as that has changed over time. However, I can see overall they are claiming for 
any original unused accommodation booked, their new accommodation, any unused travel 
and excursions costs and the flight amendment costs.
A general principle of insurance is that policyholders are required to act reasonably. With 
that in mind, for the purposes of this claim, Ive thought about what I think should have 
reasonably happened.
I think it would have been reasonable for Mrs D to have stayed in the same city as they had 
arrived. I appreciate and do understand why Mr and Mrs D might have made the decision to 
travel to the new accommodation. However, its not reasonable that they now expect Vitality 
to pay the full claim because of this decision and, despite what the policy says. Had 
Mr and Mrs D and the children stayed in the city of their arrival where Mrs D was under 
instruction to isolate immediately, the costs potentially incurred would have been reasonable 
and, more importantly, unavoidable due to what happened. Ive also thought about whether 
Mr D and the children could have continued the trip, but I think its highly unlikely they would 
have left Mrs D to isolate on her own while they continued. And, as Ive said above, there is 
cover on their policy for having to change their itinerary because of quarantine.
In terms of returning to the UK from a different destination to that originally planned, I think it 
was reasonable for the family to have travelled back to their original departure airport as they 
managed to do the journey while Mrs D had Covid-19 so its reasonable they would have 
been able to do the same when returning. In doing so, they would have avoided the extra 
flight amendment costs.
Not all eventualities are covered under their policy or any insurance. And while I understand 
the reasons for Mr and Mrs D changing their plans, they have to bear some responsibility for 
the actions they took here.
The only section that does provide cover under their policy is for having to change their 
itinerary because Mrs D had to quarantine. But this has to be fair and reasonable and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.
In making my decision, I have to take due regard of the law, the regulations, the principles of 
insurance and the industry codes of practice. Having done so, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for Vitality to settle the full claim. I therefore intend to ask Vitality to assess the 
claim for reasonable unused accommodation costs and any unused transport, trips and/or 
excursions under the Cancelling the trip or cutting it short section. That is, as if they had 
stayed in the same city as they arrived during the isolation period and as if they had stayed 
in the same standard of accommodation as they had booked on their original booking.
Mr D and the children enjoyed the trip at the new accommodation while Mrs D isolated and 
therefore Vitality should take this into account. Lack of enjoyment of the trip and any 
associated costs are not covered under this section of the policy.
Its up to a policyholder to demonstrate that they have a valid claim under an insurance 
policy, and an insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy themselves that a loss has occurred before accepting a claim. So, Mr and Mrs D should provide evidence or 
information as requested by Vitality for it to assess the claim in line with the specific section 
of the policy terms and conditions less any excess.
Compensation
Ive carefully considered whats happened in the circumstances here.
I agree with the investigator that Vitality has made errors in providing incorrect information 
about the claim and whether it was covered. And I think the claim has been ongoing for 
some time and Vitalitys decision regarding whether it decided to pay the claim or decline it 
has been unclear and confusing along the way.
I also think that had Mr and Mrs D been reasonable in the actions they took following receipt 
of the positive test result for Covid-19, the frustration, stress and inconvenience experienced 
could have been somewhat avoided. There have also been some inconsistencies in the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs D which has meant Vitality has taken longer to 
communicate the decision on the claim.
So, my intention is to award £150 total compensation in recognition of Vitalitys failings.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, my intention is to ask Vitality to do the following:
Assess the claim in line with the Cancelling your trip or cutting it short section of 
Mr and Mrs Ds travel policy minus any policy excesses, taking into account whats 
fair and reasonable.
Pay Mr and Mrs D £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs D responded and said they have nothing 
further to add. 
Vitality responded and provided further information as follows:
It said the annual certificate of insurance includes an extract as a footnote which 
states that cover is not available under the Cancelling the trip or cutting it short 
benefit of the plan for any trip that was booked on or after 17 March 2020 that needs 
to be cancelled, cut short or changed due to circumstances related to Covid-19.
It also said Mr and Mrs D have previously declined to provide information from their 
travel consultant and without this information, it wont be able to quantify what losses 
were incurred. The claim will be subject to a deduction of an excess of £50 per 
person. Vitality says it will not allow a further complaint if Mr and Mrs D are reluctant 
to provide the information that initially requested.
Vitality sent emails on 17 March 2020 to its members (which included Mr and Mrs D) 
and the Group Secretary confirming that cover for Covid-19 was not available for 
cancellation or cutting the trip short on the policy from this date. This wasnt in the 
policy terms and conditions, but separate emails were sent to its members including 
Mr and Mrs D to inform them of this.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also reviewed the comments and further information provided by Vitality. Having done 
so, while I appreciate the information Vitality has sent, I see no reason to change the 
outcome outlined in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Wording on the policy certificate, policy terms and conditions and communication sent to 
members
Policy certificate
Ive looked at the information provided on the policy certificate regarding cancellations or 
curtailments in relation to Covid-19. I understand that this informs Vitalitys members that 
Covid-19 related claims wouldnt be considered from 17 March 2020 onwards. This is 
included as a footnote on the annual policy certificates sent to Mr and Mrs D at renewal in 
April 2021 and April 2022, on page 4, which is the last page of the certificate.
Policy terms and conditions
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ds policy terms and conditions again and cant see any specific 
mention of this exclusion. The only exclusion included in the policy terms and conditions is 
that which says: claims arising from circumstances which could reasonably have been 
foreseen before you arranged or started your holiday or business trip
Communication sent to its members on 17 March 2020
Vitality also says that an email was sent to members (which includes Mr and Mrs D), as well 
as the Group Secretary of the plan, on 17 March 2020, which informs them that claims for 
cancellation and curtailment in relation to Covid-19 wont be covered after this date. 
Ive reviewed the wording on the email communication sent to its members on 
17 March 2020. 
This says:
3. Future bookings
The purpose of the plan is to protect you against unforeseen events. As its now expected 
that there will be travel disruption to most destinations over the next few months, we wont 
be providing cancellation and curtailment cover for any trips booked on or after today, 17 
March 2020, which are impacted by the Coronavirus outbreak. 
As weve mentioned, any booking youve already made will continue to be covered under the 
cancellation and curtailment benefit, and well continue to provide overseas medical 
expenses cover on any trip, subject to the guidance outlined above. Once the situation has 
stabilised, well get back in touch with any updates we have.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Ive carefully considered whether having received the above documents and communication 
Mr and Mrs D would reasonably have been alerted that cover for cancellation or curtailment 
in relation to Covid-19 would be excluded. Having done so, Im not persuaded that they could reasonably have known as the information isnt clear. This exclusion is significant and 
requires communication on this to be clear. 
While I understand that on 17 March 2020 communication was sent to Mr and Mrs D, the 
wording of this email says further updates will be sent, once the situation stabilises. Ive not 
been provided with evidence of any further communication sent to Mr and Mrs D since 
17 March 2020 except for the policy document and the annual policy certificates.
Mr and Mrs D have travel cover with Vitality and on the years after 17 March 2020 that they 
renewed the policy, I cant see that Vitality has made them sufficiently aware of this 
significant exclusion in the terms and conditions of the policy. Since 17 March 2020, I think 
Vitality has had an opportunity to make this exclusion more prominent within the policy terms 
and conditions, but I cant see that it has done so. Instead, Vitality is relying on a footnote 
included in the last page of the policy certificate sent to Mr and Mrs D upon renewal of their 
annual policy.  
Im therefore satisfied that the footnote in conjunction with the policy terms and conditions 
are not enough to exclude Mr and Mrs Ds claim for cancellation of their trip. And the 
communication sent to them on 17 March 2020 isnt enough to make them aware of this 
significant exclusion to their policy because the email isnt sufficiently clear as it says further 
updates will be provided once the situation stabilises and comes across as a temporary 
measure. With all of the above in mind, I dont think its fair for Vitality to decline 
Mr and Mrs Ds claim on this basis.
I revert to the section in the policy terms and conditions on page 8. Under the Cancelling the 
trip or cutting it short section, it states:
Whats covered
This applies if you have to cancel the holiday or business trip, or have to cut it short or 
change the itinerary after the departure date as a direct and necessary result of any of the 
following:
You or any person you intend to travel with, [], being placed in quarantine [].
Page 10 of the policy booklet explains the benefits available under the policy. Under the 
section Cancelling the trip and cutting it short, it says we will pay for the portion of your 
transport or accommodation that has been paid for, but which has not been used. We will 
also pay for any advance payments for trips or excursions you are unable to take.
Overall, therefore, I think Vitality should assess Mr and Mrs Ds claim in line with the above 
cancellation section of the policy minus any excesses. 
I confirm again that its up to a policyholder to demonstrate that they have a valid claim 
under an insurance policy, and an insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy 
themselves that a loss has occurred before accepting a claim. 
So, Mr and Mrs D should provide evidence or information as requested by Vitality for it to 
assess the claim in line with the specific section of the policy terms and conditions less any 
excess. Mr and Mrs D will need to provide evidence of the costs which they paid for, and 
which were unused, including any trips or excursions they were unable to take, and which 
were paid for in advance. I note that Vitality did previously ask for this information, but 
Mr and Mrs D werent clear about the costs they had incurred and which they had paid for 
and were unused. For the claim assessment to be smooth, its important for Vitality to be 
able to quantify the losses and for Mr and Mrs D to provide this information demonstrate those losses. 
Regarding the compensation for distress and inconvenience, I think Vitality should pay 
Mr and Mrs D £150. My reasons for recommending this are the same as outlined in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I direct Vitality to:
Assess the claim in line with the Cancelling your trip or cutting it short section of 
Mr and Mrs Ds travel policy minus any policy excesses, taking into account whats 
fair and reasonable.
Pay Mr and Mrs D £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint 
about Vitality Health Limited trading as Vitality Health. I direct Vitality to put things right as 
detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman