DRN-3710981
The complaint
Mrs E and Mrs F trade as a business which Ill refer to as P. For ease of reading, Ill refer to 
P throughout. 
P has complained that IPG Retail Limited (IPG) didnt make it aware of the change in cover 
for diseases when it renewed its commercial insurance policy in February 2020. 
What happened
P held a commercial insurance policy through IPG which included cover for business 
interruption. P claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic. Ps insurer turned down its claim, as they didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of the claim. 
P complained to IPG. It said the policy it bought in 2019 through IPG would have covered its 
claim. However, the insurer and policy wording had changed at the renewal on 26 February 
2020 which meant that its claim wasnt covered. P said IPG should have highlighted that the 
cover for disease had changed and if it had it would have looked for a different policy with 
better coverage. 
IPG said Ps insurer had refused to offer a renewal, so theyd been offered a different policy 
by the sub-broker. IPG said they had passed on the documents they had been provided with 
to P and called P on 24 February 2020 to check they were happy to proceed. The renewal 
was agreed and IPG said a full copy of the policy documents was sent to P on 25 February 
2020 with a 14 day cooling off period. IPG said it was the sub-brokers responsibility to 
highlight coverage and they also werent aware of the changes as they hadnt been provided 
with all of the information from the sub-broker. IPG also said at the time they sold the policy 
they couldnt have known about the impact of Covid-19. 
Unhappy with IPGs response, P brought its complaint to our service. 
IPG said the policy was sold on a non-advised basis so it was for P to decide if the policy 
was suitable. It said it had highlighted that the insurer had made some changes but, as they 
didnt know what the changes were, they couldnt tell P. 
Our investigator looked into Ps complaint but didnt recommend IPG do anything differently. 
He didnt think IPG had provided clear, fair and not misleading information to P, but he 
wasnt persuaded that this had caused P a loss it wouldnt otherwise have had. 
P asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said if it had known the cover was different it would 
have looked for an alternative policy and thinks it would most likely have been able to buy 
one. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ps business. However, I wont be requiring IPG to do anything further. Ill explain 
why.
IPG sold Ps policy on a non-advised basis. That means they had to provide information in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading to enable P to decide if the policy was suitable. 
Ive therefore considered what happened at the renewal of the policy in February 2020 and 
the information IPG provided to P. 
I can see that when IPG got in touch with the sub-broker to query if renewal was being 
offered, they were told that Ps insurer wouldnt offer a new policy and the sub-broker offered 
an alternative policy. 
The email IPG sent to P offering the renewal contained Terms of Business, IP Booklet, 
Payment options, Privacy GDPR scripts, Renewal Declaration, a Policy Schedule, a Key 
Facts document and information about legal cover. The cover email says that the insurer has 
made some key changes which are highlighted in the attached Renewal Invitation. 
However, the email doesnt have an attachment with the that title, and I cant see any key 
changes highlighted. 
I understand that in this case it might have been the sub-brokers responsibility to outline the 
coverage provided by the policy. However, I would still expect IPG to provide information in a 
way that is clear, fair and not misleading, so P could decide if the policy was suitable. I dont 
think IPG did that before the sale as P didnt know what changes had been made to the 
policy, but I note that a full copy of the policy terms and conditions was provided the day 
after the sale was agreed. 
Ive also listened to a call between IPG and P where P says it had read the documents and 
asked what changes have been made. The call breaks up so Im unable to hear what IPGs 
response was. But it doesnt seem to be in dispute that P was aware there were some 
changes or that IPG didnt tell P what the changes were. I do, however, think that the call 
also indicates that P decided to go ahead with the new policy despite not knowing what 
changes had been made. 
In order for me to require IPG to do anything further Id need to be persuaded that it is more 
likely than not that P would have bought a different policy if it had known the changes that 
had been made. Ive noted Ps argument that it could have bought a different policy with the 
same wording as its previous one, but on balance Im not persuaded that this is more likely 
than not. I say this because:
A copy of the policy terms and conditions was sent to P after the sale. There isnt any 
indication that P checked the disease cover, given that it knew there had been 
changes, or that P let IPG know the level of disease cover didnt meet its needs. In 
my view this indicates that at the time P bought the policy it was unlikely to have 
thought the change in disease cover was significant enough to have looked for a 
different policy. 
IPG did not have any other policies which would have covered a pandemic and 
would have advised P of this. 
At the time of the query, it was unclear which policies would provide cover in
the context of the Covid-19 pandemic and the Governments related actions, so P          
would have been switching to a different policy in a context of significant
uncertainty.
Many insurers didnt believe their policies would provide cover and would have 
advised as such when selling a policy.Other policies might not have been as suitable for the rest of Ps needs.
I recognise Mrs E and Mrs Fs strength of feeling about this and belief that they could have 
bought a policy which would have provided cover for their claim. But having considered 
things very carefully, Im not going to require IPG to do anything further as Im not persuaded 
P would most likely have bought a different policy that would have covered its claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman