DRN-2642971
The complaint
Miss A complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Be irresponsibly 
lent to her.  
What happened
Simply Be agreed a credit facility for Miss A in October 2016. The initial credit limit was 
£150, and Miss A has said Simply Be shouldnt have lent to her initially or increased her limit 
during the period as checks would have shown she couldnt afford the credit. From the 
information provided, the limit increases are as follows;
Number Date limit increase (£)
1 14 January 2017 250
2 3 June 2017 400
3 1 July 2017 600
4 29 July 2017 900
5 26 August 2017 1,250
6 10 March 2018 1,900
Simply Be considered Miss As complaint but didnt uphold it, it says its credit checks show 
that Miss A could afford the credit facility and that she kept up with making payments 
towards her borrowing.
Unhappy with Simply Bes response, Miss A referred her complaint to this service where it 
was looked at by one of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator found that Simply Be shouldnt 
have increased Miss As credit limit on 1 July 2017 and subsequently. 
Simply Be didnt respond to the adjudicators opinion and as the complaint remains 
unresolved, it has been passed to me  an ombudsman for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Simply Be needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss A could afford to repay what she was being without her finances suffering adverse 
effects. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Simply Be should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the consumer was struggling.
Simply Bes lending
Simply Be hasnt provided evidence to show Miss As application at the time she requested 
the credit facility, so I dont know what information it asked her and what responses she 
gave. This service has asked Miss A about her income at the time she applied for the facility 
and during the lending period. Miss A has said she earned £20,000 in 2016/2017 and 
£24,000 pro-rata on a part time basis in 2018. I have assumed these are her earnings per 
annum.
From what I can see, theres no evidence to show that Simply Be asked Miss A about her 
income before it agreed to lend. Simply Be however says it carried out a credit search on 
Miss As credit file, but I cant see that it has provided the results of its search at the time it 
granted her the facility. While I appreciate that the initial credit limit was low at £150, I think it 
would have been reasonable for Simply Be to have asked Miss A about her income before 
agreeing to lend. Had it done so, its likely still lent to her as her income at the time suggests 
she could afford the credit limit.
About three months later, Simply Be increased Miss As credit limit to £250 in January 2017 
and then to £400 by June 2017. So, in less than 9 months, Miss As credit limit was nearly 
three times her initial limit. At this stage, the behaviour score data provided by Simply Be 
shows that Miss A was making small repayments towards her balance and there was at 
least one account showing on her credit file she was struggling to keep up repayments.
Simply Be had all this information available to it when it decided to increase Miss As credit 
limit to £600 only around four weeks later. While I havent seen anything to show that Simply 
Be was wrong to grant the first two credit limit increases, I think the information and pattern 
Simply Be had access to at the time it decided to increase the credit limit in July 2017 to 
£600 should have concerned it. And so, I think that before Simply Be increased Miss As limit 
further, it should have wanted to understand more about her financial circumstances.
Simply Be hasnt provided a detailed result of it search into Miss As credit file but Miss A 
has provided a copy of her detailed credit file and from what I can see, Miss A had a default 
on one of her accounts, was in arrears on another and she was close to the credit limits on 
at least two of her credit cards. Miss A managed to clear her balance on the credit facility in 
June 2017 and aside from this, she was mainly making the minimum repayments or close to 
the minimum repayments and at the same time utilising a significant portion of the credit.Taking these factors all together, Simply Be should have been concerned about Miss As 
ability to repay her borrowing sustainably over the life of the credit agreement. It wasnt 
reasonable for Simply Be to increase Miss As credit limit in the circumstances.
Overall, I think Miss As pattern of utilising the credit and repaying the minimum or close to 
the minimum amount suggests that she couldnt afford the facility and I dont think Simply Be 
should have increased her credit limit from July 2017 onwards even though she had recently 
cleared her balance. I think the overall picture suggested she was struggling and her pattern 
or repaying the minimum or close to the minimum, continued until she complained in May 
2019.
Simply Be needs to put things right  
Putting things right  what Simply Be needs to do
rework the account to ensure from October 2016 to July 2017 interest is
only charged on the first £400 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit
limit increases should have been provided. The rework should then factor in that no
interest at all should have been charged on the account from 1 July 2017
onwards. All late payments and over limit fees should also be removed; 
the redress from above maybe used to offset any outstanding balance after the 
rework of the account;
if there are overpayments, Simply Be should add interest at 8% per year simple on 
the overpayments from the date they were paid, if they were, to the date of 
settlement;
if theres still an outstanding balance, Simply Be should agree a suitable repayment 
plan with Miss A;
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss As credit file as a result of the 
credit limit increases from 1 July 2017 onwards after amounts owed have been 
settled.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Simply Be to take off tax from this interest. Simply Be must give 
Miss A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss As complaint in part and direct J D Williams & Company Limited to put things 
right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman