DRN-3637524
The complaint
Mr S and Miss S complained that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) 
unfairly declined their claim for repairs to their roof following a leak under their landlords 
home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S and Miss S made a claim for repairs to their roof following a leak. They said bad 
weather had caused the leak. DAS appointed a contractor to review the repairs required, but 
the contractor didnt think the roof had been well maintained, so said the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy as he thought the damage was caused by wear and tear.
Mr S and Miss S appointed their own contractor to carry out the repairs at a cost of £420. Mr 
S and Miss S want DAS to refund the cost of the repair. They said the repair was for 
damaged flashing as opposed to the felt on the roof. They said the roof was in good 
condition. 
DAS said, in line with the conditions of your Home Emergency policy, further works are not 
covered as the felt roof has not been maintained in a reasonable condition.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought DAS had been fair in 
declining the claim as he thought there was evidence the roof had not been well maintained.  
Mr S and Miss S disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr 
S and Miss S, but Ill explain why I have reached this decision.
The policy does provide cover for repairs to roof damage  defined as any damage to the 
roof of the let property where internal damage has been caused or is likely. However, DAS 
declined the claim as it didnt think Mr S and Miss S had met the policy condition relating to 
the maintenance of their commercial property. The policy sets out you must maintain the let 
property in a reasonable condition, carry out any inspections or services of fittings in 
accordance with the manufacturers instructions and complete any necessary maintenance 
to the structure of the let property.  
DAS appointed a contractor to review the damage. I think appointing an appropriate 
tradesman / expert to review the damage was a reasonable approach. DAS said, I can see 
that a roofer attended on 8 Decemberaccording to the job notes left by the roofer, the leak 
was caused by wear and tear to the felt roof. Mr S and Miss S said it wasnt the felt that was 
damaged and showed a video clip following a repair that had been carried out by their own 
contractor. The clip shows that the flashing to the edge of the roof had been repaired.
I reviewed the photos provided by DAS contractor who carried out the original assessment 
and Ive watched the clip provided by Mr S and Miss S. I appreciate Mr S and Miss S have 
said the damage to the flashing wasnt caused by wear and tear. They said it was caused by 
bad weather. So, Ive considered this. The photos provided by DASs appointed contractor, 
shows no obvious signs of one-off damage. So, it doesnt appear to me that bad weather 
caused the damage.
Both the photos and the video show the felt roof is of some age. Im aware that felt coverings 
on flat roofs only have a finite lifespan and if not properly maintained and replaced when 
necessary are likely to lead to water leaks over time. I think its normal when a felt roof is 
constructed that the flashing is put in place at the same time, as this is part of the roofs 
mechanism to stay watertight. Therefore, I think the flashing is likely to have been of some 
age also. I havent seen any evidence to show the flashing has recently been maintained or 
indeed any part of the roof. Therefore, I think DAS has been fair to say the policy condition 
hasnt been met. There is evidence that necessary maintenance hasnt taken place. So, I 
dont uphold this complaint, I think DAS has been fair to decline the claim. Therefore, I wont 
be asking them to refund the cost of the repairs that have been carried out. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman