DRN-3366420
The complaint
Mr L complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent him 4 loans 
he couldnt afford.
What happened
Likely Loans lent Mr L 3 loans between January 2020 and February 2021. His first was in 
January 2020 for £500.00, his second in July 2020 for £1029.54 and his third was in 
February 2021 for £1855.57. 
Mr L applied for a fourth time in August 2021 but withdrew from this loan within 4 days. As 
Mr L exercised his right to withdraw from this loan, I have not looked into what happened 
here.
I have focussed instead on whether Likely Loans irresponsibly lent the first 3 loans to Mr L. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and I will explain 
why.
Likely Loans gathered some information from Mr L before it agreed to the three loans. It 
asked Mr L for his monthly income and then verified what was declared using an online 
verification tool. It then used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess his estimated 
living costs. It finally then carried out a credit search to check against any existing credit 
commitments.
Mr L was entering into a significant commitment on each of the 3 occasions he asked to 
borrow with Likely Loans. So, I think it is right that Likely Loans wanted to gather, and 
independently check (regarding his income and through the credit search), some detailed 
information about Mr Ls financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that 
the checks for all 3 loans achieved that aim. I think on balance its checks on each occasion 
were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Likely Loans gathered from and about Mr L to check whether I agree it was appropriate for 
him to be given the 3 loans.
For loan 1 agreed in January 2020, Mr Ls income was verified at £1947.05. Likely Loans 
carried out a credit check and could see that he had 5 active accounts listed with a total 
unsecured debt of £1341. Mr L had a monthly credit commitment showing of £117. It 
calculated estimated living costs of around £632 and mortgage costs of £429. After it 
deducted the loan repayment for this loan, Mr L would be left with disposable income of 
around £665. Its credit checks did not show any concerns such as arrears, defaults or any 
signs of financial problems. I can see that Mr L had enough disposable income to be able to 
comfortably afford the repayments. 
Mr L refinanced in July 2020 and it looks like his finances in this short period of time had 
improved. His income was verified at a higher amount of £2928.37 a month. Again, Likely 
Loans carried out a credit check and could see that he had repaid his credit commitments at 
this point with the exception of the first loan that he was looking to refinance. Again, after its 
assessment, Likely Loans had calculated, with disposable income of around £1656, that the 
second loan was easily affordable. There were no other concerns that had been flagged up 
within its proportionate checks here either.
Finally, Mr L refinanced for a second time and asked to borrow £1855.57 in February 2021. 
The checks Likely Loans carried out showed further improvement to Mr Ls finances. It 
verified higher monthly income of £3136.67 and although Mr L had some new credit 
commitments on his file, his disposable income had again increased to around £1807. I can 
see that Likely Loans had worked out Mr L had enough disposable income to be able to 
comfortably afford the repayments for the third loan. The credit search results wouldnt have 
shown any concerns to Likely Loans from what I have seen. From the information it 
gathered, I think it would have been apparent to Likely Loans that loan 3 was also affordable 
and there was nothing that it would have had in front of it that would have shown it he was 
struggling to manage his finances.
So, overall, I agree with the investigator. I dont think Likely Loans proportionate checks 
would have suggested that Mr L would have problems repaying any of the 3 loans. So, I 
dont think Likely Loans was wrong on this occasion to give the loans to Mr L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman