DRN-1933760
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt open his Reward Silver 
Account (RSA) properly in 2019 and later demanded he paid off a debt that had 
accumulated on it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute other than the issuing of a PIN number, so Ill focus on 
giving my reasons for my decision and cover matters related to the issuing of the PIN within 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says he opened an RSA online, but he didnt use it. He says he received a card but not 
a PIN. Mr M says he put some money into the RSA but withdrew it within a few days. He 
says the debt built up on the RSA because of the account fee while he was abroad working, 
and he doesnt believe he should have to pay the debt.
RBS says it did issue the PIN, and Mr M knew hed opened the account and was incurring a 
monthly fee. RBS says it notified Mr M each month through his electronic statement as the 
debt built up. It says it then notified him by text and letter that he needed to pay the debt, or it 
would put the RSA into default and collection.
In my view its more likely than not that Mr M was aware that the account had a monthly fee 
as Mr M opened the account on line, where the costs and benefits are highlighted.
Mr M has said he did use the account albeit briefly, transferring money in and out, so he was 
aware it was active.
RBS has provided evidence that it sent the PIN to Mr Ms correct address, so I think its more 
likely than not he received it. But even if he didnt, he could have asked RBS to re-send it, 
but he didnt. And he has not said he asked RBS to close the account. 
RBS says it sent statement alerts to Mr Ms nominated email address every month. 
So, I think its more likely than not that he knew the RSA was active and accumulating debt.
RBS has provided evidence that it contacted him by email, text and letter to his correct 
nominated addresses and phone numbers about his accumulated debt. If he wasnt using 
the nominated addresses and phone numbers when he was abroad, it was his responsibility 
to tell the bank, but there is no evidence he did so. 
RBS appears to me to have given Mr M adequate notice and followed a proper procedure 
before putting his account into default and collection.
So, in my view, RBS hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman