DRN-4490524
The complaint
Mr B complains that Curve UK Limited were unable to move a transaction from one card to 
another.
What happened
Mr B says that as part of his subscription with Curve he has the ability to move a transaction 
from one card to another. He says he requested this on 13 August 2022 after he had made a 
mistake, but Curve were unable to action this. He says he contacted the third party bank 
where he was trying to move the transaction to, and he was informed by them that no 
attempts were made to change the merchant he wanted to move to. Mr B made a complaint 
to Curve.
Curve partially upheld Mr Bs complaint, They said that on 13 August he got in touch with 
them to move a transaction from one card to another card. On 21 August Mr B received 
correspondence from a Curve agent to let him know that when they tried to process the 
transaction, his bank sent them a limits exceeded message, which usually means that hes 
hit a spending or credit limit with his underlying card. On 22 August, he let Curve know that 
his bank hadnt received any transaction attempts, and for them to move his transaction to a 
different card. Curve said they responded on 23 August to say they had tried to move the 
transaction to the card Mr B specified, but they received another limits exceeded message 
from Mr Bs bank. 
Curve said that on 26 August, a Curve agent let Mr B know they manually attempted a go 
back in time method for the transaction, using two different cards, but these were also 
declined with a limits exceeded message, and they requested he contacted his bank 
regarding this, but when Mr B did this, they said they werent receiving any transaction 
attempts. Curve acknowledged there was delays with responses from their agents and that 
Mr B had to send follow up messages, so they credited his account with £15. Mr B brought 
his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint. She said that this was a finely balanced case. But 
on balance she found it most likely Curve were responsible for any errors that prevented Mr 
Bs card providers from receiving the requests. She said Curve should reimburse Mr B the 
charges and interest he incurred and pay him £150 for the avoidable inconvenience caused.
Curve asked for an ombudsman to review Mr Bs complaint. They made a number of points. 
In summary, they said the original transaction was authorised on 10 August 2022. Then, the 
two Go Back in Time (GBiT) attempts, took place on 21 August and 23 August, and as 
theyve explained, both of these attempts were declined via the underlying payment cards 
due to a Limit Exceeded decline response, which indicates that either Mr B didn't have 
enough money available, enough of their spending limits available, or their banks risk 
engine likely kicked in to block the transaction.
Curve said even if Mr B was able to GBiT the transaction, they were unable to guarantee 
that by refunding the transaction on the original payment card and charging it to the other 
payment card, that this would refund the cash advance fee implemented by Mr Bs bank. 
Curve said this is because the underlying bank controls whether they refund the incurred 
fees, due to the transaction already being processed by them. They said they have also 
seen issues and complaints from customers of this specific issuer who have not had fees 
refunded after using the GBiT feature.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have made a number of points to this service, and Ive considered and read 
everything theyve said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of this complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I must make Mr B aware that Im only able to look into the actions of Curve on this complaint 
he has brought to us. If Mr B feels that any other party involved here has let him down, then 
he may be able to make a complaint to those companies if he hasnt already done so.
As the transaction that Mr B wanted to move was over £5,000 - which is the limit for the 
GBiT feature on the Curve application (app), Mr B contacted Curve for them to manually 
move this to another card. I can see that Curve made two requests with two different current 
account providers to try and move the transaction. 
The first manual request was made on 21 August 2022. I can see that this request was 
declined with a 20061 response (decline) code. Curve provided me a list of possible issues 
listed under this decline code. These include, expired card, updated information available, 
authentication (additional information needed), over credit limit, insufficient funds, account 
closed, suspected fraud, recurring agreement cancelled. 
I also asked Curve to confirm that it wasnt a decline message from themselves or their 
acquiring partner who handle their payments since the £5,000 app limit had been exceeded. 
But they confirmed it wasnt due to this. Theyve told me that the GBiT limit does not apply 
when creating authorisation requests using their systems, and the support team is able to 
move transactions of any amount. The app limit wouldnt have applied here as it was a 
manual process they used for Mr B.
Curve have also reached out to their acquiring partner, and they have forwarded me a 
partially redacted spreadsheet of all of the authorisation attempts to the building society that 
the card was issued by on 21 August 2022. There are 678 transactions in total and the 
decline message for Mr B was the only time out of all of these other transaction attempts 
which had the decline code of 20061. Some other customers cards were declined for other 
reasons and most of the transactions were approved, which suggests there wasnt a 
problem on Curves side.  
Curve have also explained to me that If there were any block from Curve or their acquiring 
processor, the request would have been declined before reaching the card issuer. But they 
have confirmed with their acquiring processor that these requests have reached the 
respective card issuers, and that the requests were then declined by them. So the evidence 
Ive seen does not suggest that Curve were responsible for the declines here. 
I would point out to Mr B that for the GBiT attempted on 21 August 2022 from the building 
society, that Ive noticed the card used wasnt in his name. So its probable that this wouldnt 
have been successful even if the 20061 decline code wasnt showing. I asked Curve to confirm that the card wasnt in Mr Bs name to ensure the data their acquiring processor 
provided was correct and they told me that this slipped through their system safeguards and 
had so far gone undetected. They have flagged it to their Fraud team, and theyve requested 
removal of the card from Mr Bs account as adding a third party funding card is against 
Curves terms of service. So it may be that Mr B sees this card removed from his account, 
but the reality is that Mr B shouldnt have tried to add it in the first place and Curve shouldnt 
have allowed this to be added.
Ive looked at the GBiT attempt on 23 August 2022. This time I can see that the underlying 
card was in Mr Bs name. Again, Ive looked at the spreadsheet from transactions attempted 
on this day from Curve to the specific bank. From the 3,071 payment authorisation attempts 
to this bank on 23 August 2022, I can see that Mr Bs authorisation attempt is the only one of 
these transactions with a 20061 code again. 
Curve have also reached out to their acquiring processor to see if they could provide any 
further information about the declines. They confirmed that the decline code is not coming 
from them but the issuing bank. They said the issuing bank will also not provide (decline) 
information to them as this is considered sensitive and private. They said only the cardholder 
can get the confirmation from the bank, and if they could provide Curve with any additional 
information on the declined payments then they would be pleased to do so. 
It's not clear that even if the GBiT feature worked here whether the cash handling fees would 
have been voided by Mr Bs credit card provider. I know Mr B reached out to them and he 
says if the transaction was reversed, then the fees would be removed. But Curve have told 
me that If the funds have already been captured from the original payment card at the time 
of using the Go Back in Time, we would issue a refund rather than reverse the payment. So 
as the payment would be refunded as opposed to reversed, Im persuaded that there would 
be a possibility that the fees wouldnt have been refunded. I say this because Curve have 
acknowledged that they have seen issues and complaints from customers of Mr Bs specific 
issuer who have not refunded fees after using the GBiT feature.
So based on the evidence that Ive seen, I cant say that Curve were responsible for the 
GBiT feature not working here. They attempted to use this with different cards (albeit they 
should have only used the one in Mr Bs name) and the spreadsheet shows this was the only 
transaction which wasnt authorised on those two days for the specific decline reason. So if 
there was an error with Curve or their acquiring processor, I would expect more than one 
person to be affected by this decline code on these two days, but the evidence shows no 
other Curve users experienced this decline code on these two days the GBiT was attempted 
for Mr B with those banks involved, and there hasnt been any issues with processing the 
transactions in general. 
Curve have acknowledged that they let Mr B down with the level of service they provided 
him and the delayed responses to his queries which caused him inconvenience. They said 
they credited his Curve Cash account with £15, and they would apply a coupon to his 
account for one month of his Curve subscription as a gesture of goodwill. Im satisfied this is 
proportionate for the delayed responses, but as Im not persuaded that Curve were 
responsible for the GBiT attempts not being authorised and declined, it follows I dont intend 
to ask them to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Curve accepted the provisional decision. Mr B responded to the provisional 
decision, and he made a number of points. In summary, he said while he understands that 
this complaint focuses on Curves inability to move the transaction successfully, his 
complaint involves more than one business, and it really covers the fact that he couldn't use 
one of Curves features.Mr B said that the fees would have been refunded as the transaction identification would 
have been the same, which was confirmed by the credit card provider when he phoned 
them, if the same transaction identification was provided. He said the card in question with 
the third party building society was a joint account and therefore the name would have been 
ok. Mr B asked if the attempts that I saw on the spreadsheet were all over the £5,000 app 
limit, or where they manual transactions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this involves more than one business. But this complaint specifically focuses on 
Curves actions. As I said in the provisional decision I must make Mr B aware that Im only 
able to look into the actions of Curve on this complaint he has brought to us. If Mr B feels 
that any other party involved here has let him down, then he may be able to make a 
complaint to those companies if he hasnt already done so.
Ive considered what Mr B has said about the fees being refunded if the transaction 
identification would have been the same. But as Curve had said they would issue a refund 
rather than reverse the payment, its possible the transaction identification wouldnt be the 
same. As I said in the provisional decision So as the payment would be refunded as 
opposed to reversed, Im persuaded that there would be a possibility that the fees wouldnt 
have been refunded. I say this because Curve have acknowledged that they have seen 
issues and complaints from customers of Mr Bs specific issuer who have not refunded fees 
after using the GBiT feature. 
While Mr B has said the card for the third party building society was a joint account, the fact 
remains the card added to the Curve account was not in his name, and adding this card was 
against the terms of service. 
I can confirm that Mr Bs entry on the spreadsheet was the only one above the app limit of 
£5,000. But Im not persuaded this affects this complaint. I say this because in my 
provisional decision I said Curve have also explained to me that If there were any block 
from Curve or their acquiring processor, the request would have been declined before 
reaching the card issuer. But they have confirmed with their acquiring processor that these 
requests have reached the respective card issuers, and that the requests were then declined 
by them. So the evidence Ive seen does not suggest that Curve were responsible for the 
declines here. 
In summary, Mr Bs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. If Mr B is disappointed, I hope he 
understands my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman