DRN-1440832
The complaint
X complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) promised him a repayment award but later 
changed their mind and said he didnt qualify. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of Xs loan only allowed a cash back repayment if 
payments were all made on time and the loan, or part of it, wasnt repaid early. 
Neither of these criteria were met and I therefore dont think HSBC were 
unreasonable when refusing to pay the cash back offer.
I understand that X was told on the phone and apparently on the website that he did 
qualify for the repayment, but HSBC clearly made a mistake. The terms of the 
agreement, as Ive explained, disqualified X.
In those circumstances I wouldnt expect HSBC to necessarily pay the cash back as 
a result of their mistake, but I would expect them to consider compensating X for the 
distress and inconvenience hed experienced as a result of the mistake. 
Here, I dont think X could have reasonably expected to receive cash back. I say that 
because Ive listened to the call he had with HSBC in June and I think its clear he 
didnt know he was eligible for a repayment until the operator wrongly told him he 
was. And by the time the call had ended I think X should have been aware that he 
wasnt eligible for the repayment as the operator had explained he would have 
needed to make payments on time and not to have overpaid, and X accepted hed 
done that.
So, I dont think X was significantly inconvenienced by HSBCs mistake and I think 
their offer of £50 compensation is therefore sufficient in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman