DRN-4109906
The complaint
Mrs S complains through Mr S that Ageas Insurance Limited has declined her home
insurance claim for damage caused by badgers as it says it is excluded under her policy.
Although the claim was handled on behalf of Ageas by a claims investigation company, for
convenience Ill refer to Ageas throughout.
What happened
In April 2021 Mrs S made a claim to Ageas because of damage caused to her property by
badgers building their setts under her garage. Ageas declined the claim initially because it
said that badgers are vermin and there is a general exclusion for damage by vermin in the
policy. It also said that there was no cover under the policy for that sort of damage. This was
bearing in mind that Mrs S didnt have accidental damage to buildings as part of her policy
cover.
Our Investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint for the same reasons as Ageas i.e.
damage by vermin is excluded under the policy and there is no cover for the damage
identified.
Mr S disputed that badgers could be classed as vermin as they are a protected species. He
also produced photos of the external damage to the house which consisted of lower level
cracking. He believed Ageas should cover the damage as subsidence.
Ageas still said the claim would be declined as it still contended that badgers are vermin and
that there is enough evidence of this online to show this. It did however say that it had
delayed in considering Mr Ss further evidence and in sending out its conclusion. For this it
paid compensation of £150.
Our Investigator still thought that Ageas hadnt acted unfairly as they thought badgers could
be considered as vermin.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that as badgers dont fall easily into any of the 
definitions of vermin quoted by the parties they cant fairly and reasonably be classified as 
such for the purposes of Mrs Ss policy. So I said Ageas should reconsider the claim.
Mrs S didnt respond to my provisional findings so I assume she has no further comment to 
make.
AXAs appointed claims investigation company referred the matter to the underwriters but no 
response has been received. I understand that they disagree with my findings but have 
provided no meaningful response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy has a general exclusion for the following damage:
We will not pay for any loss or damage caused by domestic pets, insects, or vermin.
The problem in this case is that the evidence appears to show that the damage was caused
by badgers. And the policy doesnt define what Ageas means by vermin. So it falls to be
decided whether Ageas view that badgers can be classed as vermin is reasonable.
So Ageas, Mr S and our Investigator have considered online definitions. One such definition
is small animals and insects that can be harmful and are difficult to control when they
appear in large numbers. I dont think badgers fall easily into that definition as they wouldnt
be regarded as small animals or appearing in large numbers. Mr S has referred to another
definition which includes any of various animals that prey on game such as the fox or the
weasel. But again I dont think that badgers are generally known for being a pest in terms of
preying on other animals.
And in its claim notes Ageas says that vermin can be interpreted to cover animals that carry
disease or cause destruction to crops and farmland. Yet I think even that is contentious, and
Ageas hasnt specifically relied on that definition in its responses to the claim.
On the other hand Mr S has pointed out that badgers and their setts are protected by law,
which other animals traditionally classed as vermin are not.
I think Ageas could have chosen in this policy to define vermin and include badgers as I
understand other policies do. My view is that if Ageas had to search around for a definition 
that would fit and as badgers dont fall easily into any of the definitions of vermin quoted they
cant fairly and reasonably be classified as such for the purposes of Mrs Ss policy.
So it falls to be decided whether Mrs S has a claim that could be covered under the policy.
She doesnt have accidental damage to buildings cover but she does have subsidence
cover. And on the face of it the cracking Mr S has shown us could be caused by subsidence.
And Im aware of cases where badger setts have caused subsidence.
I think that Ageas should reconsider the claim. Subsidence is a technical issue which an
expert will have to look at. So I cant say at this stage whether the claim should or will
ultimately be covered.
Lastly I note that Ageas delayed in looking at Mr Ss further evidence and that it paid Mrs S
£150 compensation for the inconvenience caused. I think that was fair so I wont make any
other finding about that.
As neither party has provided any meaningful response, I remain persuaded by my 
provisional findings as set out above. Those findings are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
Putting things right
Ageas should reconsider Mrs Ss claim in line with the remaining cover, terms and conditions
of the policy.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas to provide the remedy set out under Putting things 
right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman