DRN-2512789
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with esure Insurance Limiteds decision to settle a claim against his car 
insurance policy as a fault claim.
What happened
Mr T was driving on an unlit country lane at around 5pm in November 2019. Another car 
approached in the opposite direction and so both vehicles dipped their headlights and as 
they passed each other. Mr T said he suddenly noticed a parked vehicle facing him. Mr T 
said the parked vehicle had no lights on. He said he swerved but unfortunately was unable 
to avoid a collision. 
Mr T said the driver of the parked vehicle (the third party) wasnt in it at the time of the 
collision, but was standing close by. Mr T called the police to report the incident but as 
nobody was injured, the police didnt attend. There were no independent witnesses. 
Mr T reported the incident the following day to esure. The third party made a personal injury 
(PI) claim as well as a claim for vehicle damage and car hire. esure settled the claim for 
damage and hire, but it rejected the PI claim as it had evidence from the car hire company 
along with Mr Ts account that they werent in the car when the collision happened. 
esure settled the claim as a fault claim. It said it was one drivers word against the other as 
to the circumstances and whether the third partys vehicle lights were on. esure said the fact 
was that Mr T hit a parked vehicle and so it wouldnt be able to avoid liability. 
In June 2020 Mr T complained about esures handling of the claim. In summary he said he 
wasnt given an opportunity to provide his version of events. He felt esure hadnt given 
proper consideration to the third partys account that his lights were on when Mr T said they 
werent  and with no lights on this should have been considered as a contributory factor. So 
Mr T felt esure hadnt properly investigated the circumstances before deciding to hold him at 
fault. 
Mr T was unhappy that esure hadnt taken further steps in relation to the third partys 
dishonest claim for PI. 
esure didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said it had settled the claim reasonably and in line 
with the policy terms. It reiterated that it couldnt prove the third partys lights werent on. It 
had correctly repudiated the PI claim, but had correctly dealt with the third party claim for 
damage and hire due to the circumstances. 
Mr T remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought 
esure had reached its decision in a fair way. So he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr T didnt agree. In summary he reiterated his complaint points and would like an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt decide liability as this is the role of the courts. We can look at whether 
an insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy terms.
Mr Ts policy with esure has a very common term which Ive found in most  if not all motor 
insurance policies. esure says:
You must not admit liability for, or negotiate to settle, any claim without our written 
permission. We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal 
proceedings which may arise and we may take over, defend or settle the claim in 
your name for our own benefit. You and anyone covered by the policy must provide 
all the information, documentation and help we need to do this.
In certain cases involving personal injury we need to investigate liability and reach a 
decision either admitting or denying liability, within 15 working days. You must help 
us with this and supply all the information we need.
This term means that esure can make a decision as to how best to settle the claim which Mr 
T may disagree with. But the policy allows esure to do so. We dont disagree with this term in 
principle provided an insurer can show it treated its customer fairly when applying it. 
In this case, I dont think it was unreasonable for esure not to ask Mr T to provide a further 
statement as it was clear from his initial call as to the circumstances of the incident. While 
esure explained it couldnt prove whether the third partys lights were on, the fact remained 
that Mr T hit a stationary vehicle. It considered previous legal cases for similar 
circumstances and decided it wouldnt be able to avoid liability for the third partys claim for 
damage to their car and car hire. 
In relation to the third partys PI claim, esure rejected this as it considered what Mr T said 
about the third party not being in the car  and it had evidence from the third party car hire 
company which supported Mr Ts account. 
I understand Mr T feels esure should have taken further steps here. Mr T believes esure had 
an opportunity to reject the claim for vehicle damage and car hire due to the dishonesty of 
the third party.
esure agreed with Mr T that the PI claim was indicative of opportunistic fraud. But it 
explained that it wasnt their role to bring private prosecution in cases such as this due to the 
balance of significant legal costs and the impact on premium prices. It explained that the 
attempted fraud was of a level that  in their experience of dealing with other cases  it 
wouldnt pass to the police, given the prospects of a successful referral. 
What isnt in dispute is that Mr T collided with the third partys vehicle. And so I dont think 
esures decision to settle the third partys claim for car damage and car hire was an 
unreasonable one to make.
Mr T told esure that just after the incident, he pointed out to the third party that his lights 
werent on. He said the third party said the collision must have knocked them off. Mr T says 
he was denied the opportunity to get information from a witness who came to the scene after 
the incident to show the third partys lights werent on.
Ive considered that even if a witness confirmed whether the lights were on or not when they 
arrived, it wouldnt be enough for esure to prove they werent on at the time of the collision. There were no independent witnesses to the collision. And esure considered that 
irrespective of whether the lights were on or not, there still wasnt enough to avoid liability. 
Mr T is unhappy that esure said he told it he wouldnt co-operate unless it agreed to settle 
the claim as a non-fault claim. He said he told esure he couldnt offer oral evidence in 
relation to the third partys PI claim. I dont think this made any difference to the outcome of 
the claim, as I think esures decision was reasonable. 
I understand Mr Ts strength of feeling about esures decision. But I think it properly 
investigated the claim and reached its decision to settle as a fault claim in a reasonable way 
and in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman