DRN-3535303
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the quality of repairs undertaken by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
following a claim against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it in detail here. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mrs S was involved in an incident with another driver in 2021 who failed to stop. 
She raised a claim and UKI collected her car for repairs. 
Mrs S says she received her car back with faults present that UKI failed to diagnose or 
repair. She says she returned her car to UKI several times but had to replace it in the end 
which left her out of pocket. She also says engineers drove her car and used up fuel. 
UKI says Mrs Ss car was taken to a main dealer after she reported the issues. And they 
found the fault to be the result of corrosion, which UKI say was due to wear and tear and not 
the claim incident. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with the quality of repairs or the way UKI handled things, so she 
complained. UKI responded to the complaint in 2022 maintaining their position on the claim. 
As Mrs S remained unhappy, she approached our service. 
An investigator here didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought UKI handled the 
claim reasonably and was most persuaded by the main dealers report that the fault was due 
to corrosion, which UKI werent responsible for repairing. Mrs S didnt agree and asked for 
an ombudsman to decide, so the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says UKI will pay the costs of repairing claim-related damage through their repair 
network. Any damage unrelated to the claim, or present prior to this, wouldnt be the 
responsibility of UKI to put right. 
In Mrs Ss case, she had to return her car several times after it was given back to her by UKI 
following repairs. I can appreciate this would have been frustrating, as Mrs S says UKI never 
actually returned her car repaired, it was left dangerous, and she had no other option but to 
replace it which left her out of pocket. 
Ive gone on to consider how UKI handled this claim. Its clear there was a fault present 
given what Mrs S was describing to UKI during the claim and what she described to us. 
What wasnt clear during the claim was the cause, and following this, there was a dispute 
around whether UKI were responsible for putting it right. 
As such, UKI arranged for a main dealer to carry out further checks and tests. Following this, 
the main dealer reported the cause was the result of corrosion due to a previous chaffing 
mark. The main dealer reported they installed a section of wiring as part of the repairs. Mrs S 
disputed the main dealer carried out any further repairs, as she says her husband broke 
down several times following this when travelling in the car to trade it in. So, she thinks UKI 
never repaired this fault. 
I appreciate Mrs S disputes the diagnosis given by the main dealer, and I understand her 
reasons why. She thinks the fault was due to something else, and claim-related, given her 
car had travelled less than 20,000 miles without any issues prior to the 2021 incident. 
Its important I explain Im not an engineer, so its not my role to inspect the damage and 
decide what I think caused a fault to occur. Rather, I must weigh up all the evidence and 
decide what Im most persuaded by. And in this case, Im most persuaded by the expert 
report provided by the main dealer that the fault was the result of corrosion. 
The diagnosis of corrosion naturally suggests to me this is something that occurred 
overtime, rather than due to a one-off impact with another driver, which were the 
circumstances reported by Mrs S. Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Ss testimony that her car had 
no issues prior to the 2021 claim incident. But theres an absence of evidence here that 
enables me to conclude the diagnosis given by the main dealer was incorrect. So, the 
question I must ask myself is whether UKI were reasonable in accepting the diagnosis given 
by the main dealer. And I see no reason to say they werent. 
It's unfortunate Mrs S says she felt she had no other option but to replace her car following 
the claim-incident and repairs. But, Im unable to hold UKI responsible for this as I havent 
been persuaded they caused this fault or should have repaired it as part of the claim-
incident. Therefore, I wont be directing UKI to do anything further as part of the claim. 
I also note Mrs S wasnt happy engineers used her car. An authorised repairer will, in certain 
circumstances, drive a car to carry out further tests which is what UKI says happened here. 
Its unclear whether Mrs S gave consent for this to happen, but in any event, I think these 
tests were appropriate here given there were several reports of issues following repairs. Ive 
also seen UKI explained their repairer replaced the fuel used during this time. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs S. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve her dispute with UKI  can do for her.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman