DRN-3315288
The complaint
Mr S complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
CST Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to CST.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ss employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ss employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to CST 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr S was 30 years old, unmarried and with no dependent children. However, Mr S 
was due to be married in due course. His fiance was 28 years old.
Mr S lived in a home valued at approximately £170,000 with a mortgage of around 
£140,000 with 28 years remaining.
Mr S earned around £36,000 per year. 
With almost 12 years service, the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ss 
BSPS was approximately £125,016. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr S had joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS ceasing new contributions.
CST set out its advice in a suitability report in October 2017. In this it advised Mr S to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. CST said 
this would allow Mr S to achieve his objectives. Mr S accepted this advice and so transferred 
out. In 2021 Mr S complained to CST about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our Service. But CST still said it hadnt done anything wrong 
and was acting on the financial objectives Mr S had at the time. 
As this complaint cant be resolved informally its been sent to me to make a Final Decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, CST should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ss best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ss best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from CST. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made to 
the points contained within our investigators view. In particular Ive considered a number of 
points made by CSTs legal representatives. 
Ive incorporated responses to all the main issues in this Final Decision although I dont 
intend to address every single point made. Suffice to say Ive comprehensively dealt with the 
relevant factors and applied what I consider to be both fair and reasonable in arriving at my 
Decision.Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Financial viability 
CST referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. 
At least two transfer analysis documents were produced during Mr Ss advice sessions  
these are often referred to as TVAS documents. However, Ive focussed on the TVAS 
dated 16 October 2017 as this is the most recent and it represented the type of fund Mr S 
was ultimately recommended to transfer into. In this document the critical yield required to 
match the benefits at the age of 65 in the existing scheme, was listed as 5.82% if Mr S took 
a pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a tax-free lump sum at retirement, the critical 
yield was 4.97%. 
However, what found its way into the suitability report (dated 17 October 2017) was, in my 
view, much less detailed information about the critical yield(s). For example, CST only said 
that the critical yield was 4.97% and we know this was the lower of the two figures Ive listed 
above. Also, in my experience, consumers like Mr S would be directed by an adviser more 
towards the suitability report, rather than the somewhat complex data found in the TVAS. 
And in the suitability report the TVAS section was completely blank (section 6.5).
So, what CST was doing here was promoting to Mr S the lower of all the critical yields it 
could relate to his circumstances within the suitability report. This lower yield involved a 
retirement at the age of 65  and one where he would expressly take a tax-free lump sum 
and a reduced pension. However, Ive noted that even though CST said Mr S apparently 
wanted to take early retirement  the ages of 60 and 57 were mentioned  it didnt present a 
critical yield for retirement at these ages within its suitability report. 
The issue I have with all this is firstly, Mr Ss age. Because he was so young, his NRA was 
still over 34 years into the future. And so whilst I accept Mr S might well have eventually 
elected to take his retirement benefits as described above, CST couldnt possibly predict this 
so far in the future. Nor did it tell him about the critical yields for other retirement ages. I think 
this is important because these may well have been higher critical yield rates, thus implying 
that reaching them by transferring out, could be very difficult. 
Therefore, listing only the lower critical yield figure in the suitability report was, in my view, 
misleading. In any event, I dont think there was any persuasive evidence at the time that 
achieving enough growth outside the DB scheme, to make transferring financially viable, 
was ever going to be more likely. I say this with the following in mind. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
only 4.7% per year for 34 years to retirement (age 65), which is below the critical yield 
figures Ive referred to above - 5.82% was the higher yield figure. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. However, these 
figures had been in place for many years and they existed unchanged through a period of 
extraordinary low interest rates and bond yields. So, if anything, these assumptions were 
somewhat higher than the reality of the economic climate in 2017. 
At the time, CST assessed Mr Ss attitude to risk (ATR) as medium to high. But in reality, 
Mr S had no previous experience of these types of investments. He was given a 
questionnaire about his investment experience with pre-determined questions about his 
investing history, if he had any. However, Ive noticed the answers to many of these 
questions were clearly contradictory and this indicates to me that Mr S wasnt an 
experienced and / or confident investor. Thats because he specifically told the adviser he 
had never bought shares. And asked if he had any investment experience he ticked the box, 
No, not at all experienced: I am not very comfortable with investing. So, when CST implies 
in its final response letter to the complaint that Mr S had previously invested without the help 
of an adviser, I dont think this is likely to be correct. In my view, the evidence is much more 
persuasive here that he had no relevant investment experience to draw upon. He also said 
elsewhere that he didnt feel comfortable with financial uncertainty.
I accept hed joined the new TATA DC scheme which involved investing, but again Ive seen 
nothing showing this was conducted under anything other than an off the shelf investment 
strategy which required no direct investment decisions from Mr S himself. In any event, hed 
only just joined this a few months before. Ive also noted that although he had modest 
savings, theres no evidence these funds were held in anything other than a type of fixed-
rate bond. 
In summary then, the adviser used a pre-determined questionnaire to arrive at the ATR 
categorisation which was higher than I think it ought to have been. However, they seemed to 
ignore the fact that Mr S was a 30-year-old steelworker with no such investments, no 
previous experience to draw upon and a questionable attitude to stock market fluctuations. 
He was getting married and Im sure its possible he and the future Mrs S might have started 
a family. His mortgage still had 28 years to run. In short, he had his whole life ahead of him 
with all sorts of potential challenges ahead. 
Further to this, because he was so young, I think its fair to say he probably had very little 
idea of what retirement might look like for him. In my view, even though Mr S may have 
answered some questions on a form, the adviser should have considered these obvious 
factors. I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to apply a 
medium / high ATR rating to Mr S. Therefore, the realistic growth assumptions were those 
close to the lower end of the regulators range, and also close to the discount rate. 
Looked at through the prism of 2017, there was very little chance of Mr Ss transferred funds 
growing by enough to make transferring a really worthwhile exercise and I think the adviser 
was risking Mr Ss future benefits by applying a higher ATR than was merited. A 
recommendation to transfer should therefore not have been made on this basis. I think this 
showed that achieving the critical yield, year-on-year, was unlikely with Mr Ss realistic ATR. 
Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees associated with a 
personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr S, would have further reduced 
the likely growth assumptions. And in my view, there would be little point in transferring away 
from a type of DB scheme to get financial benefits of only a similar value. But here, even this 
relatively low bar didnt look likely.So, using everything Ive set out above, I think maximum growth assumptions of around 4  
to 5% at best were more realistic. However, CST used past performance data from the fund 
it recommended to Mr S to assume higher growth than this could be achieved if he 
transferred away. Ive also noted that CST says now that a reasonable growth (above the 
critical yields) has indeed been achieved. But, of course, this is using the benefit of 
hindsight. And Id need to also factor in that even now, Mr S still has over 28 more years left 
to the NRA, so the investment period between 2017 and him retiring hasnt even reached 
halfway. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, CSTs own transfer analysis said that even in order 
to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided 
by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no 
guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £315,816. This was around 
two-and-a-half times more expensive than Mr Ss CETV  and for a much inferior pension. 
So, in my view, these costs provide a revealing window into the real value Mr S would lose if 
he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis (TVAS), which I cant say if Mr S saw, CST also made 
mention of the PPF. It described this as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for 
pension schemes when the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. It said the critical yield 
to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was 4.37% per year if Mr S took a 
pension under the reduced terms of the PPF and 4.13% per year if he opted to take a tax-
free cash element and a further reduced pension. But these yields related to the reduced 
benefits available with the PPF and CST itself says Mr S wouldnt have wanted to transfer to 
this scheme. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, CSTs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr S was more likely to receive lower 
pension benefits in the longer term.
Ive also considered some projections CST used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr S well into retirement. Again, as Ive said, I think most 
of these were based on growth projections using past performance, which isnt ever 
guaranteed. Its also fair to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What CST was 
showing Mr S were comparisons with plans which lacked the wider guarantees and benefits 
of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to CST, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, CST said Mr S also had other reasons to transfer away. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. CST 
recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were Mr Ss wider 
objectives. In its final response letter about the complaint, for example, CST said Mr S 
wanted to earmark this part of his retirement provision for his future wife and family and that 
hed essentially be able to live off his new TATA (DC) fund in retirement. It also said: 
Hed said he wanted to retire early, at the age of around at 57  60. There are 
several refences to this in the various advice documents Ive seen.He wanted to take control of the pension funds himself.
He didnt want the funds to move to the PPF.
Our investigator also summarised the advice CST had set out in the suitability report. 
Themes in the report included were that Mr S wanted to retire with an income of £18,000 per 
year. CST said he would be able to take his tax-free lump-sum at age 57 without incurring 
any penalty, if he transferred under the pension freedom rules introduced a few years 
before. CST also implied this would be a larger tax-free amount than with the BSPS. It also 
noted that Mr S could leave a better and more flexible legacy for his wife and family if he 
died, by transferring to a personal type of pension plan.
I have therefore considered all these issues in depth. 
Retiring early
Ive taken into account that Mr S approached CST for advice because of the uncertainties he 
faced with the BSPS. I accept he didnt want to move to the PPF.
However, as Ive mentioned above, Mr S was still only 30 years old. In this context, I think 
CSTs adviser saying Mr S had specific uses for his retirement funds lacked any credibility. I 
think its important to focus for a moment here on just how young Mr S actually was in 
pension terms. The evidence Ive seen here is that Mr S  understandably - had absolutely 
no plans whatsoever for his retirement. With over 34 years still left to when hed be actually 
contemplating retiring if using his NRA, theres simply no way that what he might possibly 
use the money for, should have been a major influence in him deciding to irreversibly move 
away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved an investment risk which Ive showed above 
could mean lower overall financial benefits at retirement and which Mr S had no meaningful 
experience of. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr S probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been vague 
retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. 
I therefore think that everything that flowed from predicting Mr Ss retirement was flawed. For 
example, I dont think theres any real credibility behind Mr S estimating how much hed need 
to live on each month when he retired as this was so far off. I think its likely this was 
instigated by the adviser. But as Ive explained, he still had his whole life ahead of him and 
its reasonable to assume hed marry as already planned, and possibly have children. And 
even if his life did not follow this pattern, there were many years in which his personal and 
financial circumstances would almost certainly change. The adviser should have seen this 
very obvious uncertainty and incorporated it into their advice. Likewise, as Ive explained, I 
dont think the adviser could have possibly determined whether or not Mr S might access a 
lump-sum upon retirement or even how he would access his retirement benefits at all.
I think the adviser should have noted a clear vulnerability here in advising someone so 
young to withdraw from a guaranteed pension.
I think its likely CST also promoted to Mr S that he could access more tax-free cash if he 
transferred to a personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as 
a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more 
tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB 
scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated 
differently. But CST should have been telling Mr S at the time that extra tax-free lump sums 
being removed from a personal pension, potentially in his mid-fifties in his case, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. 
Flexibility and control
I also cant see that Mr S required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. 
In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by CST. I therefore think this was no more than a 
stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. 
For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr S required changing how his retirement 
benefits ought to be paid. I dont think this could have been predicted whilst still so far away 
from retirement age. He already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing 
job as a consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. This DC 
pension was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr S and his employer - 6% and 
10% respectively and still had up to 34 years left to run. So, this secondary pension would 
have afforded Mr S any flexibility he might have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr S wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr S could have been in a very 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have a meaningful deferred DB scheme of 
considerable value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes 
normally bring which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant 
indexation guarantees also existed within the BSPS2 and it was underpinned by the PPF. 
On the other hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme over a long period of 
time and its not unreasonable to say hed have amassed a substantial six-figure sum in this 
by retirement. So, if Mr S ever found he needed so-called flexibility, then hed be able to use 
the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr S had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr S was being offered the opportunity to move to the 
BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the original 
BSPS, but it remained a DB-type scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. Mr S 
himself had no experience of these types of other DC money market investments and I 
think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over 
£125,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to 
show Mr S would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost 
him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
CST itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. Im not going to use up 
time explaining what these figures were because retirement was so far away in the future as 
to make these estimates almost completely irrelevant. However, CST accepted without any 
apparent challenge that Mr S might have needed around £18,000 per year in todays money 
 something I seriously question given the incredibly distant timescale. What the adviser was 
accepting here was that Mr S could estimate how much hed need each month in around 34 
years time. 
However, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Ss pension entitlements wouldnt have 
met his anticipated requirements, without any need to transfer from a DB scheme. I dont 
think CST adequately explained these things to Mr S as its advice simply discounted him 
transferring to the BSPS2 to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt 
need.
I therefore think Mr Ss circumstances here were much more aligned to him moving to the 
BSPS2 and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr S died. Mr S wasnt married and nor did he have 
children.
Once again, I think this shows a significant lack of foresight by the adviser. I think its 
obvious, that as a 30-year-old male who was already engaged to be married, there was 
every reason to assume Mr Ss circumstances might change in the years ahead. I think the 
value of these benefits were most likely underplayed because the spouses pension provided 
by the BSPS2 for example would have been useful to a future spouse and / or children if he 
predeceased them. I dont think CST made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was 
guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
I can see the adviser probably told Mr S that hed be able to pass on the value of a personal 
pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. It implied the DB scheme on offer to 
Mr S (BSPS2) was somehow too restrictive and would only pay a future spouse around half 
his pension in retirement. So, the lump-sum death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension were made to look like an attractive feature to Mr S. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr S might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think CST explored to what 
extent Mr S was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for different 
death benefits.
Mr S was only 30 and in good health. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death 
benefits is that the amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the 
pensioner starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr S had lived a 
long life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 57 was at least mentioned. The adviser should have 
therefore additionally known that a healthy male retiring at 57 would likely have many years 
ahead in which he would be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to 
pass on to someone.
I cant be sure of the extent to which life insurance was discussed in this case. However, at 
30 years old, a modest term life insurance policy may have been a reasonably affordable 
product if Mr S really did want to leave a large lump-sum (rather than annual pension) legacy 
for a specific relative or someone else. But more so, it doesnt appear that CST took into 
account the fact that Mr S could have nominated a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his 
other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr S already had plenty of options ensuring part 
of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr S. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ss situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme Its clear that Mr S, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and CST 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and CST 
said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr S was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was CSTs obligation to give Mr S an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests. I think that CST should have reassured Mr S that the scheme moving to the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr S through the PPF would 
have still probably provided a significant minority of the income he would have needed at 
retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his 
true ATR and the effect of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in 
payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to CSTs 
recommendation to Mr S to transfer out altogether.
Other issues  would the BSPS2 ever go ahead?
In defending this complaint, CST says there was no certainty that the BSPS2 would have 
ever gone ahead. The implication here, I think, is that CST is saying it couldnt recommend 
the scheme to Mr S at the time because nothing was known about it or whether it would 
even be agreed.
But this needs careful explanation as it isnt right, in my view. 
We know a great deal about the timeline involved in these cases, and Ive seen myself a 
great many similar cases. And everything Ive seen shows that by the time of the advice, 
which was in mid-October 2017, there was relevant information about the BSPS2 available. 
In fact, CSTs own suitability report says there was confirmation that the scheme was going 
ahead. The report also went on to say, VERY IMPORTANT CONSIDERATION  The final 
details of the [BSPS2] have now been released and it went on to explain the main aspects 
of it and where it differed slightly from the existing BSPS. Ive noted too that CST conducted 
an analysis of the BSPS2 benefits in its second TVAS document. 
So, to imply now that so little was known about the scheme, is simply not correct.
Suitability of investments 
CST recommended that Mr S invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr S and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring to a new personal pension if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to move to the BSPS2. This 
means the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr S was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr S was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I think CST ought to have advised Mr S against 
transferring out of his DB scheme for this reason, particularly given the regulators clear 
stance on transferring away from a DB scheme. It also meant that hed probably be worse 
off in retirement as a result of transferring away.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ss best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
Mr S still had decades before he intended to retire. Much of the rationale used to justify the 
transfer-out recommendation was completely irrelevant to Mr Ss circumstances and I think 
the adviser fell a long way short of providing advice that was in Mr Ss best interests. The 
adviser was being paid for this advice, so their job wasnt to simply transact what Mr S 
thought was a good idea. He was only 30 years old and had no experience of these matters. 
The advisers job was to use their experience and training to see that Mr Ss personal 
circumstances were considered and to act in his interests.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr S would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that CST disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr S, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr S to transfer out, and I think Mr S relied on that advice. Im not persuaded that 
Mr S would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against CSTs advice. I say 
this because Mr S was an inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for most of his 
retirement provision at the time. So, if CST had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think CST should compensate Mr S for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr S, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for CSTs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been 
given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 
65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. CST should use the benefits 
offered by the BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
CST must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CST should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr S and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ss 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr S accepts CSTs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, CST may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that CST should pay Mr S for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would likely have had on 
Mr S in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented almost all of his 
retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits would have 
impacted upon Mr S. So I agree the recommended payment of £500 for distress and 
inconvenience. CST should pay Mr S this amount in addition to the redress Ive set out 
above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr S the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr S.
If Mr S accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman