DRN-2047428
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Gs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complain on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Santander UK PLC (previously 
Alliance and Leicester). In summary the CMC said the recommendations were too risky and 
exposed Mr and Mrs G to a higher risk than they were willing to take.
What happened
In 2005, Mr and Mrs G were advised to invest £14,000 in a maxi ISA and £26,000 in a unit 
trust. At the time Mr G was 59 and Mrs G, 58. They were married with no financial 
dependants. Both were retired and owned their property outright.
Mr and Mrs G had a monthly disposable income of £1,119 and £54,400 in savings. It was 
recorded their objective was capital growth, over the medium to long term. They were first 
time investors but were prepared to take a degree of risk, over at least a five-year period, in 
the hope of better returns. Overall, they were identified as medium risk investors.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs G complained. They said theyd been advised to invest too much of their 
savings, in products that were too risky for inexperienced investors.
Santander rejected the complaint. In summary it said:
In 2005 Mr and Mrs G met with an adviser to discuss investing their savings for 
growth beyond what they could receive in a deposit account.
Mr and Mrs G were provided with a funds guide, which was discussed with the 
financial adviser in order to determine their attitude to risk.
It was established their attitude to risk was medium  which matched the funds they 
were investing in.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought Mr and Mrs G had been left with enough cash reserve. And he considered the 
investments Santander had recommended were suitable for them, because they provided 
the opportunity for them to meet their objectives while taking a level of risk they were willing 
to accept. Mr and Mrs Gs representatives disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documents from the point of sale record that Mr and Mrs G had some spare income and 
wanted to save over the medium to long term with the potential to achieve better returns 
than a deposit-based cash account. 
The fact find recorded they were medium risk investors, which Santander said meant they 
were prepared to accept a degree of risk to achieve potentially greater returns, by investing 
in investments whose value may fall as well as rise.
Santander recommended £14,000 to be invested in a maxi ISA along with a further £14,000 
in a unit trust. Both were split equally between the UK and European tracker funds. An 
additional £12,000 was invested in fixed rate interest bond, with £14,400 kept as cash 
reserves. 
Taking what we know about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and objectives into account, I 
dont think Ive seen enough to persuade me that investment advice given here was 
unsuitable. Although Mr and Mrs G hadnt invested in risky products before, their fact find 
suggests they expressed a willingness to take more risk than they had previously, in the 
hope of a better return. 
Santanders recommendation exposed Mr and Mrs G to the risk of stock market fluctuations 
 70% of their money was to be invested in equity based products. But Ive taken into 
consideration this portion of their investment was put into stock market tracker funds, where 
its performance would be linked to how well relatively larger and established companies 
within the UK and European stock markets performed. The remainder of their funds was put 
into a fixed interest fund offering a lower degree of risk to their money. 
Overall Im satisfied this spread of investments provided the opportunity for Mr and Mrs G to 
meet their objective of higher growth through its exposure to the performance of the stock 
market. But that it exposed them to no more risk than they were willing and able to accept. 
While they were first time equity investors, they had no identified short term need for the 
money and expressed a comfort with investing over the longer term where the ups and 
downs of the stock market could more easily be ridden out.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Gs financial circumstances. They were retired, but it was 
recorded they had a substantial monthly disposable income. And the cash reserve they were 
left with following Santanders advice was enough to cover a number of years of outgoings. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs G could afford to take the risk these investments presented with this 
portion of their savings, with the ability to replace losses without a material impact on their 
standard of living.
Taking all these things into account I find Santanders advice to have been suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Gs needs, and within the level of risk they were willing and able to accept. It follows 
that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman