DRN-3514370
The complaint
Mr E complains about the refund of premium for his motor insurance policy U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) paid him due to his reduced mileage. 
What happened
UKI offered its customers a refund of premium if they had reduced their mileage due to the 
pandemic. Mr E applied for this as he had used less than half the mileage he expected for 
the year. UKI sent him a cheque for £15.68. But Mr E thought this wasnt sufficient. UKI 
declined to explain how this refund had been calculated. Mr E was also unhappy with how 
his complaint had been handled and that he wasnt provided with the policy terms and 
conditions before he bought his policy. 
Our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They checked how 
the refund had been calculated and were satisfied that it had been calculated correctly. They 
explained that complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and so we couldnt consider this. 
And they explained that Mr E would have had to agree that hed read the policys terms and 
conditions before he bought his policy. 
Mr E replied that he wanted his complaint reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has provided detailed submissions for me to consider and I have read these. Mr E 
raises concerns about our service and its impartiality. Its not for me to consider that here. 
But I can reassure Mr E that I have reviewed all the evidence provided in making a decision 
about his complaint against UKI. Mr E has raised many concerns, but I think the central one 
is his unhappiness with the refund he received for his reduced mileage and thats what Ill 
focus on here. 
UKI sent an email to its customers saying that if their declared mileage dropped by over 
1,000 miles then they could be due a refund. Mr Es declared mileage on his policy was 
5,000. But he said hed only done 2,400. UKI then provided him with a refund of £15.68.
I can understand that Mr E would feel disappointed with this as he calculated that this was 
2.5% of his annual premium. But UKI has provided us with an extract of its underwriting 
criteria. And Im satisfied that this refund was calculated correctly and so Mr E has been 
treated the same as other customers. Unfortunately, I cant share these criteria with Mr E as 
they are commercially sensitive. 
As our Investigator has already explained, mileage is just one of the criteria that insurers use 
to calculate risks. Also, UKI arent required by the policys terms and conditions to provide a 
refund for reduced mileage. This was a goodwill gesture. So I cant say that this refund is 
unfair or unreasonable.
Mr E said he didnt receive a copy of his policys terms and conditions before he bought the 
policy. But Ive seen that Mr E completed his application through an online comparison site. 
Mr E had to agree that hed read the policys terms and conditions before he could complete 
the purchase. And then an email was sent to him with copies of the policy documents and a 
link to the terms and conditions. This was within the 14 day cooling off period and Mr E 
could have cancelled the policy if it didnt meet his needs. So I cant say that UKI didnt 
provide Mr E with the policys terms and conditions before he bought his policy.
Mr E has correctly explained that complaint handling in isolation isnt a regulated activity that 
we can consider. And we can consider complaints about complaint handling where the 
complaint relates to an underlying financial service or the way in which the firm has 
administered its business in providing that financial service. 
Mr E was concerned that UKI didnt provide a copy of its complaints policy as he expected 
after it had responded to his complaint. I can understand that Mr E felt frustrated by this. But 
I cant say that this is something I can consider as Mr E was no longer complaining about the 
underlying financial service (i.e. his refund). Instead, he was complaining about complaint 
handling matters that cannot be seen to be a continuation of the original financial service. So 
I agree with our Investigator that this isnt something I can reasonably consider. 
In any case, I can see that the complaints procedure was provided to Mr E and he did 
receive the refund and a goodwill award of £30. So I cant say that UKI has caused Mr E any 
loss through its level of service or that it needs to pay him any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman