DRN-1465248
The complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of his father (for whom he holds power of attorney) that an 
agreement with Anglian Windows Ltd was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr P discovered that his father took out a loan with Anglian Windows for around £2000 with 
a total amount repayable of around £4500.
Mr P thinks the loan was mis-sold. He says his father had no need to enter into a loan 
agreement because he had sufficient funds available to pay for the goods.
Mr P is concerned because his father doesnt remember taking out the loan. Hes also 
unhappy about the level of interest under the agreement.
In response to Mr Ps complaint, Anglian said that at the time of the sale it offered a discount 
to customers taking the finance option. It also said it operated a code of practice in relation 
to mental capacity and didnt consider the loan to have bee mis-sold.
Mr P remained unhappy and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He didnt think there was any evidence to suggest that the loan had been mis-
sold.
Mr P didnt agree. He said if his father had understood the discount for taking out finance, he 
wouldve settled the loan shortly after inception because he had the finances available to do 
so. Mr P also said his fathers mental capacity was already in decline at the time of the sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Anglian has provided documents which were signed by Mr Ps father at the time of the sale 
including a purchase order, a personal illustration and the loan agreement. The purchase 
order shows that Mr Ps father agreed to purchase goods for £3,956 which included a 
discount of around £1,155 for taking out finance.
The illustration shows the terms of the loan and the amount of monthly payments. It also 
says that overpayments can be made to reduce the term and the overall amount payable.
Mr P says that his father didnt understand how the finance worked because he had enough 
money to pay for the goods outright. I cant be certain of why Mr Ps father chose to take out 
finance but I think its more likely to be because of the substantial discount offered, which 
would otherwise have been available to him. I also think the documents signed by Mr Ps 
father made it clear that overpayments could be made if he wished so that the agreement 
could be repaid sooner.
Based on the documents Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr Ps father was provided with all the 
required information and that by signing the agreement he accepted the terms.
I appreciate that Mr P has raised concerns about his fathers capacity at the time of the sale. 
I cant be certain of what was discussed between the salesman and Mr Ps father so Im 
unable to comment on the extent to which he understood the information. However, I can 
see that Mr Ps LPA wasnt registered until January 2019. The loan was taken out in April 
2016. Because of the length of time between the sale and the registration of the LPA, I cant 
safely conclude that Mr Ps father lacked capacity in 2016.
I understand Mr Ps strength of feeling about this but on the available evidence Im unable to 
say that the loan was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman