DRN-2238722
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc irresponsibly gave him a conditional Sale 
agreement which he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In March 2017, Mr A acquired a used car using a conditional sale agreement from 
Santander. The cash price of the car was £21,600, with a total repayable of around £28,800. 
The duration of the agreement was 49 months, the monthly repayments were around £417 
and there was a final payment of around £8,800.
Mr A missed a number of his monthly repayments over the first two years of the agreement. 
In around July 2019, he made a complaint to Santander that the agreement was always 
unaffordable to him. He said Santander hadnt completed adequate checks before agreeing 
to lend. 
Santander said it carried out the required checks which showed the agreement was 
affordable to Mr A. It said the dealership that brokered the finance had asked him details of 
his income and employment and there was nothing adverse recorded on his credit file. It 
said despite making payments late on 14 different occasions, hed never told them he was in 
financial difficulty. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think Santander had 
completed reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. She said it should have 
attempted to verify Mr As income, rather than relying on what he had self-declared. She said 
Santander could keep the payments Mr A had made towards the car (around £10,000) 
accounting for the fair usage hed had of the car. She said it should now arrange to end the 
agreement without any further costs to Mr A and ensure adverse information was removed 
from his credit file.
Mr A agreed with the investigator, but Santander didnt. In summary, it said:
The necessary affordability checks were completed. Mr A told them he was part-
exchanging his existing car (which was financed by a different lender) and that this 
would reduce his outgoings. 
Mr A clearly knew he couldnt afford the finance agreement and was likely dishonest 
in conversations with the dealership about his circumstances. As the monthly 
repayments of around £417 were a large amount, Mr A needs to take some 
responsibility for the information he gave.
The agreement is currently over £7,000 in arrears and it wouldnt be reasonable to 
write this amount of debt off. Further, the proposed fair usage figure of £10,000 
wasnt reasonable for the type of high-end car Mr A had acquired.
It gave Mr A 14 different opportunities (each time a payment was missed) to tell them 
he was struggling financially but he didnt do so. Instead he gave numerous different 
reasons for the failed payments.
It wouldnt be reasonable to remove adverse information from Mr As credit file as 
Santander has a responsibility to report a customers true repayment history to 
protect him and future lenders. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set 
out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr A would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that 
Mr A could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mr A has been disadvantaged in any way by Santanders actions, Ill go onto 
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.  
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr A 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, Santander were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr As ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. This is often referred to as 
an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr A could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering his specific 
circumstances), rather than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter is the risk 
posed to Santander as the lender, or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as 
an assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited to:
The amount of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be. 
The total repayable under the conditional sale agreement was a little over £28,800, with 
monthly repayments of around £417. I think these are relatively large commitments. 
Santander appears to agree with this too, given what it said in response to the investigators 
assessment. As it is a large commitment, both in terms of overall borrowing and regular 
repayment, my starting point is that any reasonable and proportionate assessment of 
affordability ought to have been relatively thorough. 
Santander hasnt given us a great deal of detail about what information it gathered, how it 
did so or what it showed. Its suggested that Mr A told them he was earning £27,000 a year 
and that he intended to part-exchange his existing car finance agreement. But it hasnt 
shown where this information was recorded, or at what point in the process. It said it carried 
out a credit check and has given us a very brief summary of what this included. 
It said that because it understood Mr A lived at home with his parents, had limited financial 
commitments and earned around £1,700 a month, he had sufficient disposable income to 
afford the monthly repayments. 
Ive noted that Santander has told us Mr A didnt meet part of its lending criteria and this 
prompted some further questions. But it hasnt said what part of the lending criteria he didnt 
meet and what further information it gathered to satisfy itself Mr A could still afford the 
borrowing. Overall, what Santander has told us about its checks is vague and lacking in 
specific detail. 
For example, it has said Mr A didnt have any defaults recorded against him on his credit file, 
but hasnt provided us with the specific data it gathered. Having reviewed a copy of Mr As 
credit file that he has provided, I can see he did have a default recorded within the last two 
years. While this in itself wouldnt be a reason to refuse lending, it ought to have prompted 
Santander to complete more thorough checks on his ability to repay such a large debt. From 
what Santander has provided, Im not satisfied it didnt see this default. 
It doesnt appear Santander attempted to verify Mr As income, it seems it relied on what he 
told them. Given the size of the borrowing and repayments, as well as the relatively long 
term of the agreement, I dont think it was reasonable for Santander to rely solely on what 
Mr A told them about his finances. I therefore dont think Santander completed a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mr As ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr A could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
Its not clear what evidence Santander would have reviewed to verify Mr As income had it 
carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment. But in the absence of anything else, 
Ive reviewed his bank statements for the three months leading up to the lending decision. 
To be clear, Im not suggesting Santander needed to request bank statements, but I think 
what the statements show about Mr As income gives a reasonable indication of what 
information Santander would have likely discovered had it attempted to verify his income.
These show Mr A was earning around £1,000 a month, significantly less than Santander 
says he declared during the application process. These also show his regular financial 
commitments were a car finance loan, a personal loan, a credit card, two mobile phone 
contracts and a gym membership which totalled around £450 a month. The car finance loan 
was for around £300 and this is the loan Santander had said it understood was being settled. I cant see where Santander learned that Mr A was going to be settling this existing car 
finance agreement. But even if this had come from Mr A, I dont think it was reasonable for 
Santander to rely on that.  
Had Mr A been part-exchanging his existing car as part of this particular finance deal it 
would have been a reasonable conclusion for Santander to reach. But that wasnt the case 
and Santander ought to have realised that. Further, Mr A had taken out that existing car 
finance loan less than a year earlier, so Santander ought to have known he wouldnt have 
been able to come out of the agreement without incurring a large financial liability. And if he 
were to part-exchange it for another car elsewhere, he was likely to continue having to pay 
finance on that car too. 
Based on what Santander ought to have found out about Mr As income, it would have likely 
discovered he would be repaying around £715 a month towards two car finance payments 
as well as his credit card commitment, which was around £25 to £30 a month. It would have 
also likely known about his mobile phone commitments as Ive seen these detailed on his 
credit report. I think it would have been reasonable for Santander to conclude that Mr As 
regular commitments would be around £780 a month, leaving him with around £220 for his 
car insurance, fuel, maintenance costs as well as general living costs such as food. 
Santander has said the car it was financing was a high-end car, meaning insurance was 
likely to not be cheap. I dont think £220 would be sufficient to cover Mr As reasonable living 
costs and ongoing costs in relation to the car, while still leaving him with a reasonable 
amount of money for emergencies. Taking all of this into account, I dont think Santander 
ought to have concluded Mr A could sustainably afford the finance repayments if it had 
carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of his ability to repay it. 
Santander has argued that Mr A likely gave false or misleading information during the 
application process and should therefore take some responsibility. Its not particularly clear 
whether Mr A did give incorrect information given the scarce detail and evidence Santander 
has provided about the application process. But irrespective of what Mr A may have said 
during the application process, it doesnt absolve Santander of its responsibility to carry out 
reasonable and proportionate affordability checks. And had it done so here, it would likely 
have discovered what the true position was regarding Mr As ability to repay the borrowing. 
So, I dont think Mr As actions prevented Santander from making a reasonable and fair 
lending decision. 
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Santander says Mr A had 14 separate missed payments on his finance agreement before he 
raised his complaint about affordability. It says each time he gave differing reasons for why 
payments were late and never indicated it was due to affordability. 
While Mr A could have raised his financial difficulty with Santander at an earlier point, 
Santander could also have done more. Its clear that 14 different instances of late payments 
are more likely than not to be indicative of someone in financial difficulty. It seems Santander 
just accepted Mr As explanations each and every time without probing this further or 
exploring alternative solutions with him to resolve his payment problems  particularly 
because a disproportionately high number seemed to relate to issues with his bank. 
It seems on many occasions Santander accepted payment of arrears by third parties rather 
than Mr A himself. Mr A was also reluctant to give any specific details about the reasons for 
late payment on many of the occasions. This, along with the number and frequency of the payment difficulties ought to have alerted Santander to the possibility he was in financial 
difficulty. 
I can see that Santander did eventually discuss voluntary termination with Mr A but he didnt 
want to take this option. However, I havent seen that Santander took steps to understand 
Mr As financial circumstances and properly explored all options available to assist him. 
Had Santander stepped in sooner I think it could have looked to limit Mr As liability by 
properly discussing his termination options. It could also have limited the charges that were 
added to the agreement for non-payment, which have further increased his arrears. Although 
I think Santander could have done more, Im not proposing to direct any award specifically in 
relation to these errors as the redress Ill be proposing in relation to its lending decision 
I think adequately compensates Mr A for what has happened overall. 
 
Putting things right
As I dont think Santander should have entered into the conditional sale agreement with 
Mr A, he should be put back in the position he would have been in (or as close as possible), 
but for that lending decision. 
I therefore think Santander should now take possession of the car if it hasnt already, at no 
cost to Mr A and end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay. It should also refund 
everything Mr A has paid under the agreement, minus a deduction for the fair usage he has 
had of the car. 
There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair usage should be. However, in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account the amount of interest charged under the 
agreement, the amount of usage Mr A has had of the car and the costs Mr A might have 
incurred to stay mobile elsewhere had he not entered into this agreement. 
I understand Mr A has paid a little over £10,000 towards the agreement and hes covered a 
reasonable amount of mileage in that time. Our investigator suggested that Santander 
should be entitled to keep everything Mr A had paid to reflect his usage of the car. Having 
considered this carefully, including all of the factors Ive listed above, I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Santander has argued it isnt a fair reflection of usage given it is a high-end car. However, it 
hasnt provided anything to suggest what it thinks would be reasonable and why. So, Ive not 
seen any persuasive reason to reach a different conclusion.
Lastly, I think Santander ought to remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr As 
credit file in relation to this agreement. Ive noted that Santander says it has a responsibility 
to record accurate information with credit reference agencies. While I agree, it also has a 
responsibility to record information which is fair. Here, it wouldnt be fair to adversely impact 
Mr As credit file because of a lending decision Santander shouldnt have made. Had it 
carried out reasonable and proportionate affordability checks, Mr A would likely never have 
entered into this agreement and been in a position where he couldnt afford the repayments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
Collect the car (if it hasnt already) at no cost to Mr A.End the finance agreement with nothing further to pay. It can keep all repayments 
Mr A has made towards the finance agreement to account for the fair usage he has 
had of the car. 
Remove all adverse information it has recorded on Mr As credit file.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman