DRN-2620637
The complaint
Mr W complains about The Co-operative Bank Plcs (Co-op) service when he wanted to 
open a new account. He says they didnt see him at the scheduled time and couldnt offer 
him an appointment within a reasonable period. Mr W wants Co-op to pay compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr W held a savings account with Co-op and visited a branch in November 2019 to open a 
new limited access savings account. Co-op explained Mr W needed to make an appointment 
and said the earliest date was 18 December. Mr W attended the branch on this date and 
was told he had missed his appointment time. Co-op said it was at 2.00pm and not 3.00pm. 
Co-op then offered Mr W another appointment for 20 December but this wasnt convenient 
for Mr W.   
Mr W complained that when the appointment was made he was told it was at 3.00pm, but 
when he arrived at the branch he was told it was 2.00pm. And, he said, on his first visit in 
November, the earliest appointment Co-op could offer was three weeks later yet on 18 
December they offered him an appointment for two days later. Co-op responded and said, 
although there was no way of determining what time was agreed in branch, they accepted 
more couldve been done to provide Mr W with clarity on the time of his appointment. So, 
they upheld this part of the complaint. Co-op apologised to Mr W and said they had provided 
feedback to the staff at the branch. They also credited Mr Ws account with £50. In relation 
to the complaint about the appointment dates, Co-op said they try to offer appointment dates 
within a reasonable time. They said there will always be busy periods which theyre unable 
to predict. They confirmed they did offer Mr W the earliest possible next appointment on both 
occasions. They didnt uphold this part of the complaint.   
    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W. She said she wouldnt be asking Co-op to take 
any further action and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the matter has come 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr W will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. I feel its important to 
clarify that Im only looking at the complaint which has been addressed by Co-op in their 
complaint response dated 15 January 2020. Mr W has raised further complaints which I can 
see are being investigated separately. 
Theres no evidence which shows what time the appointment was arranged for on 18 
December. That said, Co-op have admitted they got things wrong by not doing more to 
provide Mr W with clarity on the appointment time. I think its right that Co-op should 
compensate Mr W for the upset and inconvenience caused by their poor service. Mr W says 
this caused him to make an unnecessary trip and left him frustrated that he still wasnt able 
to open the new account. 
While I cant say with any certainty what time was agreed, I agree Co-op couldve done more 
to ensure no misunderstanding could arise. They couldve done this by giving Mr W an 
appointment card or writing to him with confirmation of the date and time of the appointment. 
I feel its reasonable for Co-op to pay compensation to reflect the frustration to Mr W as well 
as the inconvenience. Mr W says he made a sixty mile trip to the branch so understandably 
its caused inconvenience. I cant say this has been a case of Co-op making an appointment 
for 3.00pm and then failing to honour it because I havent seen any evidence of the 
appointment time. So, taking everything into account, I feel the £50 compensation already 
paid by Co-op is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the frustration and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W. 
I understand Mr Ws frustration at being given an appointment three weeks after his request 
in November. And I can appreciate why he became further concerned when, on 18 
December, hes given another appointment date for two days later. I cant say however that 
theres been an error by Co-op. Co-op say they cant predict busy periods and nothing Ive 
seen suggests the appointments they offer to Mr W werent the next available dates. I dont 
think three weeks is, in itself, an unreasonable period to wait for an appointment to open an 
account. Co-op say the opening of a new savings account requires them to complete a full 
review with the customer and to ensure the customers are given information to make a full 
informed choice. I understand why an appointment is therefore necessary and I dont think 
its unreasonable to expect there might be occasions where a customer might need to wait 
slightly longer for an appointment. On occasions there might be appointments available in 
two weeks and on other occasions in two days. That doesnt mean theres an error by the 
bank  it just means theres busier periods and quieter periods. So, I dont uphold this part of 
the complaint. 
In summary, I think the £50 paid by Co-op is fair in the circumstances so I dont think Co-op 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case. So, it follows that I dont uphold the 
complaint.      
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman