DRN-4427743
The complaint
A limited company that I will refer to as T complains about the decision of U K Insurance 
Limited trading as NIG to avoid its commercial insurance policy and decline its employers 
liability claim.
What happened
The following is only intended as a brief summary of events. Additionally, whilst other parties 
have been involved in the complaint, for the sake of simplicity, I have largely just referred to 
NIG and T. 
T held a policy underwritten by NIG. As far as is relevant, the policy renewed in March 2021. 
In June 2021, an employee of T suffered an alleged accident at work, and a claim for 
compensation was made against T. T contacted NIG to claim under the employers or public 
liability sections of the policy. 
Ultimately, NIG decided to avoid the policy, refunding the premium, and to not meet the 
claim. This was on the basis that when the policy had renewed T had failed to declare the 
relevant type of work or type of location involved in the accident were circumstances that Ts 
operations included. NIG made its decision on the basis that, amongst other things, the 
answers given to the following questions were inaccurate:
Does the business use any process involving the application of heat other than 
soldering irons? Answered No
Type of properties the business undertakes work on? Answered Private Dwellings 
or Blocks of Flats only
NIG said that T carried out pothole repairs at motorway service stations, involving the 
application of heat. This was the work that led to the alleged accident. And T was aware of 
this work when the policy renewed in March 2021. NIG said that had the answers given to 
the questions above were incorrect. And that had they been correctly answered, this would 
have led to the policy not being sold. 
T complained about this and when NIG didnt alter its decision, T referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. However, our Investigator did not uphold it. She said that 
T had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk posed at the time the policy was taken 
out. And that in answering these questions incorrectly, T was in breach of this duty. 
The Investigator was also satisfied that NIG would not have offered the policy had these 
questions been answered correctly, so she felt avoiding the policy was fair and reasonable. 
T disagreed with this, as it did not consider NIG had provided adequate evidence or justified 
its decision. As such, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
I will add at this point that a separate complaint has been raised by T about the third-party 
broker who arranged this policy. I understand that this broker was acting on Ts behalf. My 
decision, however, only concerns the actions of NIG in avoiding the policy and so not 
meeting the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Whilst it is not overly relevant in the circumstances, I would point out that the policy contains 
at least one exclusion relating to the event leading to the alleged accident. The policy 
excludes claims relating to work other than on private dwellings or blocks of flats. This was 
not the location of the alleged accident, and so  regardless of NIGs decision to avoid the 
policy  it does not appear the relevant claim would be covered. NIG has also referred to a 
couple of other exclusions  relating to working on motorways and heat work, but it is less 
clear these would apply in the circumstances. 
However, not only does the avoidance of the policy mean such a claim would not be 
considered anyway, it also has a potential impact on T going forward  as this avoidance will 
likely need to be declared when renewing cover and also other potential claims during this 
period would not be covered. So, I will focus on the decision to avoid the policy.
I appreciate T took its policy out through a third-party broker. But as this broker was acting 
on Ts behalf, NIG is entitled to consider any information provided, or not provided, by this 
broker as being from T. And whether or not a commercial customer chooses to use a third 
party, the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act) places the duty of fair presentation on the customer. 
As I say, issues of how the broker facilitated this are being considered separately. 
The Act requires, in effect, a commercial customer to disclose every material circumstance 
which the insured knows or ought to know, or failing that, sufficient information to put a 
prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose of revealing 
those material circumstances. NIG has not treated this as a deliberate or reckless breach, so 
it merely needs to be shown that T knew it was in breach of the duty, or did not care whether 
it was in breach.
T knew about these works at the time the policy was renewed. Given the questions above 
are specific about the type of work and location of such work, I consider that it ought to have 
been clear to T that the answers to these questions constituted information that was material 
to the circumstances of risk. So, I consider T ought to have provided different, accurate, 
information in relation to the questions above. And its failure to do so was a breach of the 
duty of fair presentation. 
NIG has me with provided an extract from its underwriting criteria. Due to the commercially 
sensitive nature of this, I am unable to share it with T. However, I am satisfied that  at least 
in regard to the second question above  NIG would not have offered T the policy had it 
known about the location of Ts work. 
Answers to the first question would apparently have led to a referral to an underwriter for 
consideration. NIG has said that such a referral would have led to a decline, but this is less 
clear than it is in relation to the second question. And as the correct answer to the second 
would have led to automatic decline, it is not necessary for me to consider what the potential 
decision of the underwriter at the time would have been. The policy would not have been 
offered regardless of this first question.
As the policy would not have been offered had T not breached the duty of fair presentation, it 
follows that I consider NIG has fairly and reasonably avoided Ts policy.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman