DRN-3306778
The complaint
Ms P says Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms P took out two 6-month instalment loans from Lending Stream. A summary of her 
borrowing follows. I understand there is a balance outstanding on both loans and the debts 
have been sold to a third-party.
Loan taken out repaid valuehighest monthly 
repayment*
1 17/11/2018 - £300 £107.37
2 09/01/2019 - £670 £314.65
*taking into account the loans overlapped
Ms P says Lending Stream didnt complete proper affordability checks or ask to see payslips 
or bank statements. She already had high-cost loans and credit cards that she was 
struggling to repay.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. He said given the loan 
amounts, what was apparent about her circumstances at the time and her history with the 
lender, he didnt think it wouldve been proportionate to ask for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable.
Ms P disagreed. She said, in summary, a second loan in six weeks should have been a red 
flag indicating financial problems. She had a very poor credit history due to going bankrupt in 
2016 (her mental health condition puts her at risk of periods of compulsive spending) and a 
credit check would have showed her mortgage was in arrears. She already had six payday 
loans at the time. It was irresponsible for the lender not to verify the income and outgoings 
she declared. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to
establish whether Ms P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Ps complaint.
Lending Stream has told us about the checks it carried out for each loan and shared the 
results. It asked Ms P for details of her monthly income, living expenses and existing credit 
commitments. It checked what she declared against external data sources. This meant for 
loan 1 it increased her declared expenses by £25. It also carried out a credit check for each
loan. I would note, by way of explanation for Ms P, that whilst Lending Stream completed
credit checks at the time of each application the information it saw wont have been exactly
the same as what Ms P could have seen on her credit file. It may only have seen part of the
file, and some data may be missing, summarised or not up to date. And Lending Stream
could only make its decisions based on the information it had available at the time from the
credit reference agencies. Based on the result of these checks combined Lending Stream 
concluded Ms P could afford both loans.
Overall, I think Lending Stream completed proportionate checks for loans 1 and 2 
considering the value of the loans, the monthly repayment in relation to Ms Ps income and 
the stage in the lending relationship. Ms P said that the lender didnt ask for payslips or bank 
statements, but this isnt something it had to do. It checked her declarations using external 
data sources which I find to be proportionate in the circumstances of this case. And I dont 
think there was anything in the information it gathered, that I have seen, that should have led 
it to make different lending decisions.Ms P has provided a copy of her full credit file, evidence of her bankruptcy in 2016 and 
mortgage arrears (although this correspondence is dated 2021). In light of this I looked very 
carefully at the results of the credit checks Lending Stream completed to see if there was 
anything in its checks that ought to have shown it there was a risk these loans would not be 
affordable for Ms P. But I cant see there was. Its checks showed Ms P had no delinquent 
accounts (in arrears) or defaults in the previous 12 months. They did show she had seven 
older defaults that occurred in the previous 36 months, so I think it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to conclude Ms Ps financial instability was historic and that her finances 
had now stabilised. 
I understand that may not have been the case  but as I explained previously I can only fairly 
expect the lender to respond to the data its credit checks returned. Ms P also said she 
already had a number of other payday loans. The lender asked about her existing financial 
commitments and she declared these to be £250 and £325 for loans 1 and 2 respectively. 
There was nothing in the credit checks Lending Stream completed to suggest these figures 
may not be accurate. 
Overall, whilst I accept that Ms P may have been struggling financially, I dont think it would 
have been reasonable or proportionate for Lending Stream to have carried out the level of 
financial checks needed to learn this. Ms P has also told us about her mental health 
diagnosis and how this can impact her financial control. I am very sorry to hear that she has 
this additional challenge, but I havent seen any evidence that the lender was made aware to 
allow it to respond appropriately.  
It follows I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to give loans 1 and 2 to Ms P.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ps complaint. Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, needs 
take no further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman