DRN-3925023
The complaint
Mr and Mrs U complain that Chubb European Group SE hasnt paid a claim for travel 
inconvenience benefit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
Mr and Mrs U have travel inconvenience insurance as a benefit of a credit card. This 
provides the following benefit:
1) You will be reimbursed up to £200 for additional travel, refreshment and 
accommodation costs incurred prior to Your actual departure if:
a) (Delay, Cancellation or Overbooking) Your flight is delayed, cancelled or 
overbooked and no alternative is made available within 4 hours of the published 
departure time;
b) (Missed connection) You miss Your connecting flight and no alternative is made 
available within 4 hours of the published departure time.
Mr and Mrs Us flight was delayed by just under four hours, which means that the 
circumstances that led to their claim arent covered under the above terms. So, I 
dont think Chubb did anything wrong when it declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs U say that had they not booked another internal flight, they wouldve 
missed their international flight, which wouldve resulted in higher costs. But I dont 
think this means I could fairly ask Chubb to pay the claim. The circumstances simply 
arent covered by the above terms.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs U, but I dont think Chubb acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it declined their claim for the reasons Ive explained above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U and Mr U to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman