DRN-3814667
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU Mutual) unfair declined a claim they made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs Z refer the complaint to our service as joint policyholders. All the contact with 
NFU Mutual and our service has been with Mr Z, so Ill mainly refer to him within this 
decision.
NFU Mutual uses a handling agent to administer claims on the legal expenses insurance 
policy held by Mr and Mrs Z. Where I refer to NFU Mutual within this decision, it includes this 
representative.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Z hold a legal expenses insurance policy with NFU Mutual. Two legal disputes 
have arisen with a neighbour. One is about access to their property and the other, which is 
the subject of this complaint, is about the neighbours compliance with a covenant.
Mr and Mrs Z made two claims with NFU Mutual, seeking funding for appropriate legal action 
in both cases. The claim related to the access issue was accepted. The claim relating to the 
covenant was declined. NFU Mutual said that the relevant terms and conditions didnt extend 
to cover the circumstances of the claim. 
Mr Z complained to NFU Mutual, and then our service. Our investigator thought NFU Mutual 
had acted fairly when it declined the claim. Mr Z didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of Mr and Mrs Zs claim are well known to both parties here, so I wont go 
into detail. In brief, Mr and Mrs Z purchased an area of land adjacent to their property. There 
was a covenant in place requiring that owners of neighbouring land had to keep hedges 
below a stated height. Mr and Mrs Z alleged this covenant had been breached.
When it declined cover for the claim, NFU Mutual referred to a condition of the policy which 
said there was cover for:
A civil dispute relating to an insured persons home or secondary home, or personal 
possessions, that an insured person owns, or are responsible for, following:
a) an event which caused physical damage to such property but the amount in dispute 
must be more than £100
b) a legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with an insured persons use or 
enjoyment of an insured persons land, or some right over, or in connection with it);
c) a trespass.
Provided that an insured person must have established the legal ownership or right to the 
land that is the subject of the dispute.
It would seem to be agreed that Mr and Mrs Zs claim falls within the definition of a legal 
nuisance in the above condition, as they allege that the covenant has been breached by the 
neighbours, restricting the use or enjoyment of the land.
The question I need to address, therefore, is whether this is a dispute relating to Mr and 
Mrs Zs home. NFU Mutual says it isnt.
The policy terms and conditions contain a number of definitions, and of relevance to the 
above condition defines a home as:
The house, garages, glasshouses, stables and outbuildings described on your schedule all 
used for domestic purposes.
Outbuildings is further defined as Any permanent structure within the grounds of your 
property used for domestic purposes which is not attached to the main building, all at the 
address shown in the schedule and which belong to you or for which you are legally 
responsible.
Finally, domestic is defined as Relating to the private activities of you or your family. We 
do not cover any business or profession, including growing agricultural or horticultural 
produce, or rearing livestock for profit.
From the definition of home, I think its clear that the intention is that this only encompasses 
the buildings, whether residential or storage, at a property. It doesnt include any gardens or 
land adjacent to the property. 
I note the statement of insurance makes no mention of the land as being part of the buildings 
at the property. The statement of insurance specifically has a section about the Size of 
garden / land adjoining your home, and the land in question is listed here. Its relevant, I 
think, that the land is described as adjoining the home, rather than being part of it.
Another reason NFU Mutual has said the dispute doesnt relate to Mr and Mrs Zs home is 
that Mr Z has an arrangement with a farmer to allow sheep to graze on the land. He receives 
a small payment for allowing this. I know Mr Z doesnt consider this to be a business 
arrangement, or conducted for profit, but the definition of domestic is related to the private 
activities of you or your family. 
I cant conclude that allowing someone else to have their livestock graze on the land, in 
return for which a payment is received, could be said to be a private activity of Mr Z or his 
family. I agree he isnt rearing livestock for profit, but the definition isnt limited to that activity, 
but includes it.  
What I would say, however, is that the exact nature of this relationship and use of the land 
isnt of particular relevance in my opinion. The definition of home doesnt include the land 
which is the subject of this claim. The use of the land doesnt change that point.
Theres no definition in the policy terms and conditions of relating, so I have to take the 
ordinary and normal meaning of it. Im satisfied that relating is the same as about or 
concerning. The dispute concerns the land which is adjacent to the property, not the home 
as defined by the policy terms and conditions.
From all of this, I conclude that the dispute doesnt relate to Mr and Mrs Zs home, as defined by the policy terms and conditions. The dispute is about the land which is part of the 
property, but isnt a part of the home.
Since our investigator gave his view on the complaint, Mr Z has made two further arguments 
about why he thinks the claim should be covered. Hes suggested that he took the policy out 
with the specific intention of providing cover for this land. If thats the case, it would be the 
matter of a separate complaint about the sale of the policy. Im considering here whether 
NFU Mutual has acted fairly by declining cover in line with the relevant terms and conditions.
Mr Z has also said that the home is affected by the breach of the covenant, due to the view 
being affected by the hedge heights. It seems to me that such a dispute would likely 
constitute a new claim, or a change in circumstances to the original claim, and should be 
taken up with NFU Mutual for their further assessment.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited fairly declined cover for Mr and Mrs Zs claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman