DRN-2634606
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that a claim was registered on his record by Great Lakes Insurance SE 
when he didnt pursue it.
What happened
In September 2018, in the course of dealing with another claim hed had for escape of water, 
Mr G contacted Great Lakes as hed discovered cracking in his wall after stripping off some 
wallpaper. Great Lakes appointed a loss adjuster who in turn arranged for a surveyor to 
come out and visit the property. The surveyor inspected the cracking but advised Mr G that it 
wasnt structural and likely due to thermal movement. Great Lakes sent a copy of the 
surveyors report to Mr G and explained that it wouldnt be covering the claim.
When Mr G was considering renewal of his policy in 2020, he asked Great Lakes for his 
insurance history and was disturbed to note that a claim had been registered showing a cost 
of £630. He believed he was only making an enquiry and as the claim wasnt pursued, he 
didnt think it fair that it should be recorded as a claim.
Great Lakes said that the claim was recorded correctly and that the £630 represented the 
cost of the surveyor visiting, and drawing up a report. Mr G was unhappy with this and said 
the surveyor had only stayed at his property for about ten minutes.
On referral to this service our investigator said it was quite clear that Mr G wanted to make a 
claim. And that Great Lakes had investigated and then declined the claim. He thought it had 
acted reasonably.
Mr G didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed Great Lakes file as well as the recordings of the telephone conversations 
Mr G had with Great Lakes. In his initial call he made it quite clear that he wanted to register 
a new claim, and Great Lakes set one up. And the correspondence that Great Lakes had 
with Mr G quite clearly referred to a claim. The surveyor visited the property and Ive seen 
the technical report he drew up. The cost of £630 represented the cost of the visit, the full 
technical report, with photos, and the professional opinion. Whilst Mr G believed the 
surveyor only stayed at his house for about ten minutes, nevertheless I think the £630 paid 
represents a reasonable cost for a surveyors report and expert opinion.
I dont think Mr G can reasonably say that he hadnt made a claim, especially as there was a 
concern that he might have subsidence. By Great Lakes arranging for the survey Mr G was 
at least assured that the cracking wasnt subsidence related. 
Great Lakes is entitled to register in its records exactly how much the claim cost it, as it has 
done so here. I think Great Lakes acted reasonably. If asked about any claims, Mr G will 
need to advise any prospective insurer of this claim even though it was unsuccessful.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman