DRN-2955902
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) gave him 
unsuitable advice when it advised him to transfer his deferred defined benefit pension to a 
personal pension plan. 
Mr H also complains the redress calculation carried out by Prudential, as part of the industry-
wide pensions review, used incorrect assumptions to calculate his loss.
To put matters right Mr H wants Prudential to recalculate the redress he is due in line with 
the regulatory guidance set out in FG17/9.
Mr H is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
I understand that in 1993, Prudential advised Mr H to transfer deferred benefits from a 
defined benefit occupational pension scheme to a personal pension plan.
In 2000, this advice was reviewed by Prudential as part of the industry-wide pensions 
review, which firms were required to carry out on personal pension plans sold between 29 
April 1988 and 30 June 1994. Mr H was offered redress as part of this review and accepted 
the redress offered of £13,125 (paid into his personal pension plan) on 29 May 2002 in full 
and final settlement.
At the time Prudential explained that the offer had been calculated in-line with the regulators 
pensions review guidance. It provided Mr H with a Summary of Loss Assessment so he 
could understand the calculations the redress was based on. And it also gave Mr H a Key 
Facts and Assumptions document setting out the information about Mr Hs circumstances 
Prudential had used in the review.
In late 2020, Mr Hs representative complained to Prudential on Mr Hs behalf. It said that 
Prudential had failed to use plausible assumptions in the redress calculation it had carried 
out. In particular, it said Prudential had used a policy charge assumption of zero and a 
fund management charge assumption of zero. It said that as Prudential had not calculated 
the redress due in accordance with the regulatory standards or requirements applicable 
for the review of the transaction at the time, the FCA FG17/9 guidance states that it is that 
guidance that should be used to determine appropriate redress.
Prudential did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said, in summary, that the redress Mr H had 
accepted in 2002 was calculated in-line with guidance set out by the Personal Investment 
Authority (PIA), the industry regulator at that time. It confirmed that the redress calculations it 
carried out followed the PIA guidance. In view of this it said it did not think it was required to 
retrospectively revisit cases using FCA FG17/9 guidance for previously settled pension 
review cases. It noted that the new guidance Mr Hs representative had referred to is for 
complaints recorded after 3 August 2016.
Mr Hs representative did not accept Prudentials decision and referred the matter to this 
service.
Our investigator said that, having carefully considered Mr Hs complaint, she didnt think 
Prudential had acted incorrectly in this matter. She noted that it was not in dispute that the 
advice Mr H had received to transfer his deferred defined benefit pension to a personal 
pension was unsuitable. As this was the case, she said she hadnt considered this aspect of 
Mr Hs complaint.
With regard to Mr Hs complaint that the redress calculation had not been carried out in 
accordance with the regulators guidelines, she explained that the pension review was 
designed to be a one-off exercise in order to provide finality to both consumers and 
businesses. It was intended to rectify widespread pension mis-selling and to put consumers 
as close as possible to the position they would be in if they hadnt received unsuitable 
advice.
She explained that the methodology for redress calculations was set by the regulator. The 
assumptions used in the calculations were based on what the regulator thought was fair at 
the time and the assumptions businesses were required to use were regularly reviewed. 
She noted that the FG17/9 guidance, that Mr Hs representative had referred to was 
intended to be used for redress calculations in complaints about occupational pension 
scheme transfers received after 3 August 2016 or for complaints received before that date 
but which hadnt been settled in full and final settlement. It could also be used for complaints 
about advice that had been reviewed during the pensions review period, if the business 
hadnt followed the regulatory guidelines or the particular circumstances of the case werent 
addressed by those standards. 
Having reviewed the redress calculations carried out by Prudential for Mr Hs personal 
pension, she said she couldnt see any errors in the assumptions or data used. She also 
noted the pensions review was monitored by the industry regulator at that time. In view of 
this, and in the absence of anything to show that incorrect assumptions were used, she said 
she was satisfied that the redress calculation for Mr H was carried out in accordance with the 
regulators guidelines. As this was the case, she said she didnt think Prudential needed to 
re-work its redress calculations for Mr H in-line with FG17/9.
Mr Hs representative did not accept our investigators view. It reiterated that it felt Prudential 
had not carried out the pensions review calculations in-line with the regulatory requirements, 
as they failed to use adequate assumptions for the costs of the personal pension. In 
particular it referred to the investor event calculation report Prudential had provided setting 
out its redress calculations. It said this showed that:
While the fund management charge has been applied to both Protected Rights units and 
Single Premium Accumulation Units, the Annual Policy Charge has only been applied to the 
Single Premium Accumulation Units.
Furthermore, 0.985% p.a. is not an adequate assumption of the fund management charge, 
as it only accounts for the annual management charge of the fund, which was of course not 
the only fund management charge to Mr H. Funds have an annual management charge and 
substantial additional charges, which is why the "Ongoing Charges Figure" (which includes 
the annual management charge plus these additional costs) which must be disclosed to the 
investor.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
suitability of advice
When the review of Mr Hs personal pension plan was carried out as part of the pensions 
review, a calculation was carried out to establish whether Mr H had been financially 
disadvantaged as a result of transferring his deferred benefits to a personal pension plan.
Redress calculations were only carried out if the sale of the personal pension plan was found 
not to be compliant, or the business had conceded compliance (usually because it was not 
able to demonstrate from its records that the sale was compliant).
If the sale had been found to be compliant by Prudential it wouldnt have carried out a 
redress calculation.
As this is the case, although I appreciate the points Mr Hs representative has made about 
the advice he received to transfer his deferred benefits, I dont think it is necessary to re-
consider the suitability of the advice.
redress calculation
Mr Hs representative says that the redress calculations carried out by Prudential in 2000 
was flawed as the annual policy charge was only taken into account in the calculations for 
the single premium accumulation units and not for the protected rights units. It also says 
0.985% p.a. is not an adequate assumption of the fund management charge, as it only 
accounts for the annual management charge of the fund
As our investigator explained, the pensions review was designed to be a once and for all 
process, based on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, using 
reasonable assumptions for future growth rates of both the pension policy, and where 
appropriate, augmentation of policy funds.
The review was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a business such as 
Prudential was able to provide redress, for instances of mis-selling if the customer had 
suffered a loss, but also so that it knew that it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in 
the future.
This was important for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial 
services more generally. But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Mr H that 
the error had been recognised and, if necessary, addressed at that point in time  as Ive 
said above, using what were considered to be reasonable assumptions - without the need to 
revisit the matter many years later.
(Some businesses did offer a guarantee to match the benefits at retirement rather than 
undertake a redress calculation, but the more common  and still acceptable  method of 
resolving the matter was either by reinstatement or paying an augmentation sum if the 
calculations showed a financial loss.)
The methodology businesses were required to use contained a number of assumptions. The 
most notable of which was the expected growth rate of the pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement. Unfortunately, these projected growth rates havent been 
borne out by reality. Likewise, the low interest rate environment from 2008/09 onwards has 
resulted in the cost of annuities rising significantly. This means that, for many people, their 
pension funds at retirement arent sufficient to reproduce the lost scheme benefits.
Mr Hs representative says that the fund management charge used in the redress 
calculations for Mr H was not an adequate assumption, as it only accounts for the annual 
management charge of the fund and does not reflect substantial additional charges. 
As Mr Hs representative will be aware, the methodology and assumptions Prudential used 
when it carried out the redress calculations were in-line with the regulatory guidance at that 
time. As this is the case, I cannot reasonably find that Prudential acted incorrectly by 
applying the regulatory guidance in place for pensions review redress calculations. I 
therefore cannot fairly require it to re-work the redress calculations using an on going 
charges figure rather than the annual management charge as I am satisfied that Prudential 
carried out the calculations correctly in 2000.
Mr Hs representative also says the redress calculations carried out by Prudential in 2000 
were flawed as the annual policy charge was only taken into account in the calculations for 
the single premium accumulation units and not for the protected rights units. 
I think there may be a misunderstanding on this point. Only one pension policy held by Mr H 
with Prudential was included in the pensions review (as Mr Hs representative set out in his 
complaint to Prudential). Prudential has confirmed that this policy held both Mr Hs protected 
rights and non-protected rights benefits. Therefore, only one policy charge was applied. As 
this is the case, I cannot reasonably agree with Mr Hs representatives view that the annual 
policy charge reflected in the redress calculation is incorrect.
In the absence of anything to show or suggest that Prudential made an error, or used 
incorrect assumptions when carrying out the redress calculations in 2000 for Mr H, I cant 
reasonably find that the calculations were incorrect.
However, if Mr H or his representative still thinks that incorrect assumptions were used, or 
the basis of the calculation was faulty for some other reason, its open to him to demonstrate 
why and, if he deems it necessary, commission a rerun of the calculation.
But I do also need to explain that, even if errors were proved, this wouldnt necessarily result 
in the outcome sought by Mr H to require Prudential to re-work the calculation using the 
FG17/9 guidance.
If we were satisfied that Prudential had undertaken the calculation in good faith, but that 
minor errors had been made, its likely that we would simply require it to rerun the calculation 
using the correct information, but also the same methodology and key assumptions 
(including growth) which existed when the redress calculation was carried out in 2000.
My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman