DRN-2276557
The complaint
Ms M complains Bank of Scotland plc t/a Halifax didnt allow her to withdraw money from her 
current account.
What happened
In March 2020, Ms M went into a Halifax branch to withdraw £20 from her current account 
and asked to receive this amount in coin denomination. Ms M says this was needed to pay 
an essential bill.
Ms M says she was denied this service as the advisor explained that the branch didnt hold 
coins. Therefore, the advisor recommended another business for Ms M to go and withdraw 
this money from. Ms M says she then asked if it was possible to pre order the same amount 
in coins as she needed this amount on a weekly basis. Ms M says the advisor told her this 
wasnt possible and again recommended the other business for Ms M to go to. Ms M says 
the experience was unpleasant and embarrassing and shes unhappy Halifax havent 
provided an explanation as to why she was refused this service. 
Halifax acknowledge they couldve given Ms M a better service and couldnt see any reason 
as to why she was refused the coins shed requested. So, Halifax apologised for this and 
paid Ms M £75 compensation in recognition of the inconvenience caused. Halifax say they 
also gave feedback to the branch Ms M went to.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Ms M brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Ms Ms concerns. In summary, he said he thought Halifax had fairly 
compensated Ms M for the poor service she received. Ms M disagreed. She remained of the 
opinion that the service she received from Halifax was so poor and reiterated that she 
needed the £20 in coins to pay an essential bill. Therefore, Ms M says she would like to be 
compensated 10 times the amount of her own money for the inconvenience caused. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have said although the bank were providing certain services at the time, more 
couldve been done to help Ms M  for example, the coins could have been ordered for 
future withdrawals. Halifax also say that the advisor could have asked Ms M to withdraw 
more than £20 to save her having to make regular visits. So, in my opinion, its clear Halifax 
have acknowledged that a mistake has happened here.
I can understand that this experience would have been distressing and unpleasant for Ms M. 
I note Halifax recommended another business for Ms M to withdraw the £20 in coins from 
and that Ms M was able to do this. But I can appreciate this would have been inconvenient 
for Ms M. 
Halifax have apologised and paid Ms M £75 compensation for their error in not providing the 
service she had asked for. I think this is fair in the circumstances of this complaint because 
although Ms M was given the wrong information, she was also told how to get the coins she 
needed at the time to pay her essential bill. So, having considered everything I wont be 
asking Halifax to award anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman