DRN-4338715
The complaint
Mr M has complained about his van insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) regarding a claim 
he made when his van was stolen.
This complaint is about poor service and resultant financial loss. There is a separate 
complaint considering Mr Ms concerns about the market value settlement UKI paid to settle 
the theft claim. 
What happened
Mr M is self-employed and used his van (a 2013 registration plate) for work, UKI insured the 
van for this. Mr M had also paid UKI to increase his cover so it provided a hire van in the 
event of a loss or accidental damage. 
Mr Ms van was stolen on 7 November 2022. He was told there was a £400 excess and that 
the system didnt show he had cover for a hire van. UKI corrected the excess amount the 
same day to £450 and told Mr M it was unsure why hed been given an incorrect figure. It 
also realised a technical issue was affecting its system regarding the hire van. It instructed a 
hire company to provide a replacement van for Mr M  but no replacement van was 
provided. Mr M told UKI he was losing work. On 21 November 2022 Mr M bought, and had 
delivered, a new (to him) van so he wouldnt lose out on more work. 
The new van Mr M bought was priced at £20,994 plus VAT, it was a 2016 registration plate 
and had done 70,000 miles. He thought UKI should compensate him for having to buy this 
van. He told UKI that, prior to buying the van, and since the theft, hed lost £800 a week in 
earnings. He said he expected UKI to reimburse him plus interest. He remained unhappy 
about the incorrect information hed been given when he first contacted UKI. 
Regarding the incorrect information UKI issued a final response. It said it accepted thered 
been poor service. It apologised and paid Mr M £100 compensation.
Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Following enquiries and 
investigations undertaken by our Investigator, UKI said it didnt feel Mr M had evidenced a 
loss of earnings. UKI didnt comment on the new van. 
Our Investigator felt UKI had adequately compensated Mr M for the incorrect information. 
She noted the only evidence Mr M had provided about lost earnings was confirmation from 
customers that he had been booked to work for them on certain relevant dates. She said that 
didnt evidence a financial loss, but UKI could consider more detail if such was provided. She 
accepted though that Mr M would have been inconvenienced by not having a van. She felt 
UKI should pay him £300 compensation. Regarding the new van she felt it had been up to 
Mr M to mitigate his situation  which he appeared to have done. But, having noted the 
policy cover for hire, which sets out redress to be paid in the event a replacement van is not 
available, she felt UKI should pay Mr M £525 for not providing a hire van.
Mr M didnt feel he had to provide more evidence for lost earnings, he said UKI had not told 
him he had to provide anything more. He said that his testimony about what he had lost 
(£800) a week had been accepted by UKI, hed then supported that with the detail of 
bookings by customers. Regarding the van he felt the difference between what UKI paid in 
settlement and his outlay for the new van should be paid. He also disputed the policy 
wording relied upon by our Investigator. He said that was not part of the policy documents he 
had been sent. 
Regarding policy documents our Investigator confirmed UKI had shown that documents 
were sent to Mr M. She noted that he was arguing based on policy documents that did not 
include wording for hire cover. She pointed out his claim had been considered on the basis 
of cover being available. Our Investigator confirmed that her view on the complaint had not 
changed. The complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepts that Mr M was initially given incorrect information about the policy excess and 
not having taken extra cover for a hire van. Its apologised and paid £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by this. Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable. 
It is also clear that UKI accepts that Mr M was not given a replacement vehicle when he 
should have been. I dont doubt it was inconvenient for Mr M to be without a van. I think that 
was likely particularly frustrating when hed opted to take extra cover to protect himself 
against such a circumstance. Im satisfied that £300 compensation is fairly and reasonably 
due for the two weeks of not having a vehicle.
If Mr M were able to evidence a likely loss of income for that period, Id expect UKI to 
compensate for that financial loss separately. And I note UKI had told Mr M during the 
course of the claim that it would consider his loss subject to evidence being provided. I note 
it told him it would need detail of bookings, but also tax records and/or bank statements to 
evidence usual income. 
Ive considered what Mr M has provided  essentially a number of statements prepared by 
him that confirm that on certain dates, an individual, who has signed the statement, had 
contracted with Mr M for work. Contact details for the individuals are (in the main) not given, 
the contracts are not provided and nor is any detail of what the work booked was, or for what 
price. I note that, separately Mr M has said he earns £800 a week. But the set of statements 
does not evidence that the sum stated by Mr M is most likely accurate. Its fair and 
reasonable for UKI to have wanted to see evidence regarding the likely financial value of the 
reported loss, before looking to make any compensatory payment. If Mr M has any evidence 
to support the sums he says he lost, he can send that to UKI. 
Clearly after a week or more without a van, Mr M needed transport. His 2013 van had been 
stolen and he was waiting for a settlement from UKI for that claim, he had no replacement 
van from UKI despite the extra cover he had taken and he didnt think hiring a van himself 
was financially viable. Especially because he didnt know when he might receive settlement 
for the theft claim. So I can understand why Mr M chose to buy a replacement van. I think 
that was a reasonable action which mitigated the difficult situation he was in. 
I accept there was a cost to Mr M for purchasing a new van. I understand that he paid more 
for that new van than UKI later paid him for his stolen van, in settlement of his theft claim. So 
I can understand that he feels out of pocket because, in his view, he wouldnt have had to 
buy a replacement van if hed had the hire van hed paid extra for cover for. But I note that 
the new van Mr M bought was three years younger and had done around 30,000 less miles than the van UKI was covering. I dont think UKI could reasonably have foreseen that Mr M 
would buy a younger, lower mileage van in replacement due to the lack of a hire vehicle. 
And, importantly, Mr M will benefit in the long run from owning a younger, less travelled van 
 the sale price, if he sells, will likely be higher, and if he keeps the van the maintenance and 
repair costs will likely be less. Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to require UKI 
to pay Mr M the difference between its market value settlement and the cost to Mr M of 
buying the newer replacement van.
Further the cover for a replacement van provided by UKI sets out what UKI will be liable for 
in the event a hire van isnt available. That is £25 a day for a maximum period of 21 days. 
That is £525 and UKI has agreed to pay that to Mr M.  
I know Mr M says his policy documents dont show that wording. But I note the policy 
documents he has presented dont include any wording for van hire. Mr M and UKI are both 
clear that Mr M did have cover for van hire. And Ive considered the evidence UKI provided 
to show the policy documents it has copies of, containing wording for van hire, were sent to 
Mr M. I see that the copy document UKI holds seem to be personalised to some extent for 
Mr M as its front page contains his name. The wording in this document for van hire does 
say that where a van isnt available, UKI will pay the policyholder £25 a day for a maximum 
period of 21 days. Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to rely on this wording when 
considering what redress is due to Mr M for UKI not having provided him a hire van when his 
was stolen.
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Mr M:
£300 compensation for inconvenience caused when he had no van to use for work.
£525 as a payment due under the policy, for a hire van not being provided.
Mr M can provide further evidence of his lost earnings to UKI if he wishes. If he does, it 
should consider that. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman