DRN-2563973
The complaint
Mr B says Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr B between 
March 2015 and June 2015.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamountmonthly 
instalmentsdate ended
1 28/03/2015 £100 6 24/06/2019
2 17/06/2015 £120 6 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He said that Lending Stream didnt make proper checks before lending, such as looking at a 
payslip or his bank account, to verify what his full situation was. He thinks this is 
irresponsible lending. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
Ive seen a record of the information Mr B provided when he completed his loan applications. 
Mr B said he had a monthly income of around £1,400 and he had regular monthly outgoings 
of about £900 for loan 1 and nearer £1,000 for loan 2. So, it would be reasonable for 
Lending Stream to think that Mr B could afford the loan repayments. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made aware 
of any financial problems Mr B mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it 
to investigate Mr Bs circumstances further. 
And as Ive outlined above this was early in the Lending relationship and the repayments 
were modest when compared with Mr Bs income. So I think it was reasonable for Lending 
Stream to rely on the information it obtained. To be specific I dont think that it needed to 
verify what Mr B told it by looking at, for example, payslips or his bank statements at this 
early stage, and for these loan amounts. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Lending Stream did for these 
loans were proportionate. And I think its decision to approve loans 1 and 2 was reasonable. 
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about them. 
I appreciate Mr B feels strongly about this and Im sure my decision is not the answer he 
wants. But I hope my explanation is helpful and it doesnt cause any distress. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman