DRN-4052047
The complaint
Mrs R complains about how Evolution Insurance Company Limited handled a claim she 
made under her boiler breakdown insurance for a boiler repair.
What happened
Mrs R held an annual boiler breakdown insurance policy, which is underwritten by Evolution 
Insurance Company Limited (EIC). This policy was purchased via an online price 
comparison website on 11 November 2022. It started on 12 November 2022 and was 
intended to cover repairs to Mrs Rs boiler, which was made by a company that Ill call B. 
Mrs R received the terms and conditions of her policy after the policy was incepted. And, on 
14 November 2022, EIC asked Mrs R to complete an online form confirming the particulars 
of the boiler shed asked it to insure. 
Mrs R duly completed the form and provided the requested information to EIC by email. She 
stated that her boiler was in good working order and was around 7 years old. Mrs R said she 
didnt hear anything further from EIC other than an acknowledgement to her email on 16 
November 2022.
On 4 December 2022 Mrs Rs boiler leaked. She contacted EIC to report a fault with her 
boiler and paid an excess of £45 for an engineer to attend her property. A claim was raised 
on her behalf and an engineer was sent to Mrs Rs address to inspect the boiler on 6 
December 2022. The boiler couldnt be repaired as a new hydraulic group part was required. 
Mrs R said that, during the engineer visit, she was invited to take finance out to purchase a 
new boiler. Mrs R said she was pressured into signing a finance agreement. However, her 
credit check was unsuccessful. So, this didnt proceed any further.
Following the engineer visit, Mrs R was informed that cost to repair the boiler would exceed 
the current market value of the boiler. So, the boiler was determined to be beyond economic 
repair (BER). EIC therefore declined to fund any repair and cancelled her policy. It retained 
the excess Mrs R had paid.
Mrs R subsequently asked B to attend her home and repair the boiler. An engineer visited 
Mrs Rs home on 7 December 2022 and repaired the boiler  stating it wasnt BER. B set up 
a repair and care annual insurance policy on Mrs Rs behalf. This policy covered breakdown 
protection for the boiler and waived the cost of the initial repair while Mrs R remained 
insured.
Mrs R wasnt happy with how EIC had handled her claim and complained. She felt shed 
been misled into believing her boiler would be covered for repairs up to the value of £1000. 
She disputed EICs assessment that her boiler was beyond economic repair. To resolve her 
complaint Mrs R asked EIC to pay for her boiler repair costs and refund the excess shed 
paid.
In its final response to Mrs Rs complaint, EIC didnt uphold her concerns. It said the excess 
was payable to secure the attendance of an engineer when a claim was made and, as 
assistance had been provided, this payment couldnt be refunded. It also maintained its view 
that the boiler was BER. It said it had therefore acted correctly in cancelling the policy and it 
wouldnt pay for any costs Mrs R had incurred with B.
Being dissatisfied with how EIC had dealt with her complaint, Mrs R complained to our 
service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided. Initially they recommended 
upholding this complaint because they hadnt seen enough evidence to show how Mrs Rs 
boiler had been determined as BER. But they didnt think EIC had acted unfairly in keeping 
the excess payment Mrs R had made because this was in line with the terms of the policy.
Following our investigators view of this complaint, EIC provided evidence to our service 
showing how the value of Mrs Rs boiler had been calculated. Our investigator reconsidered 
the evidence submitted and was satisfied that the cost of repairs far exceeded the value of 
the boiler making it BER. So, they didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
EIC accepted our investigators view of Mrs Rs complaint, but she didnt. So, Ive been 
asked to decide the fairest way of resolving this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Mrs R or EIC its not 
because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach 
what I think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
The crux of this complaint is whether EIC made a mistake, or treated Mrs R unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. 
Ill start with the sales process. As Ive already indicated, Mrs R purchased her policy via a 
price comparison website. Im satisfied the sale was conducted on a non-advised basis as 
EIC didnt recommend the policy or provide Mrs R with any advice as to the suitability of the 
cover she was selecting. 
As the sale was non-advised, EIC didnt need to make sure that the policy Mrs R purchased 
was suitable for her needs. It had a responsibility to provide information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading so Mrs R could make an informed decision on whether the policy was 
suitable. The responsibility for ensuring she had the cover she required rested on Mrs R.
Like all insurers, EIC sends policy documentation to a policyholder after a policy has been 
incepted. This documentation includes, amongst other things, a policy insurance schedule 
and the terms and conditions. EIC said that it provided Mrs R with these documents; she 
hasnt disputed this. 
Having seen the documentation EIC sent Mrs R, Im satisfied it informed her how a claim for 
a boiler repair would be handled, the circumstances in which a boiler would be deemed BER 
and what would happen to the policy if that occurred.  
Mrs R has argued that EIC should have informed her of the market value of her boiler at the 
outset. She said if shed have been aware that her boiler would only be valued at £387.42 shed have exercised her legal right to cancel the policy within her 14 day cooling off period 
without penalty.
I can understand why information about the market value of her boiler may have been 
helpful for Mrs R at the point that she incepted her policy. But our service wouldnt expect an 
insurer to calculate the market value of a boiler until a claim was made under the policy. It 
wouldnt be possible to foresee the potential cost of a repair until the boiler developed a fault. 
And, while Mrs R provided a lot of information to EIC about her boiler on 14 November 2022, 
Im persuaded it wasnt obliged to calculate the boilers market value at that point.
I can see that when Mrs R reported the fault with her boiler to EIC it dispatched an engineer 
to her property quickly. I say this because the engineer visited within 2 days of the problem 
being reported. Im therefore satisfied that EIC prioritised the visit for Mrs R.
Its not in dispute that there was a fault with Mrs Rs boiler, which couldnt be repaired during 
the engineers visit on 6 December. This is because a new hydraulic group part was needed 
to undertake the boiler repair. And I can see that the same parts had to be ordered by B 
when it attended to inspect the boiler to complete the repair.
Mrs R contends that her policy covered her for up to £1000 towards the cost of a boiler 
repair. She said her policy offers:
unlimited assistance and repairs, with cover up to £1000 per claim including parts, labour 
and VAT. 
But the policy Mrs R purchased covered the cost of repairing her boiler provided it wasnt 
BER. The terms define BER as follows:
Boilers have a working life of, usually, 7 to 20 years. Their value reduces over time. If, after 
an engineer visit and assessment, repair costs are estimated to be more than the current 
value of the boiler we will not be able to carry out a repair but will try to assist you with other 
options.
Ive reassessed Mrs Rs complaint with the policy definition of BER in mind.
EIC has showed our service reliable evidence that the cost of the part that was needed to 
repair the boiler was just under £559 including VAT. Once the cost of labour had been 
factored in, the cost of repair increased to just over £756. 
Mrs R has explained that B was able to procure the required part for significantly less than 
EIC. Shes provided evidence that the cost of parts and labour was £220.80  over £500 less 
than EICs quoted costs. She says this renders EICs quoted repair costs unreliable and 
means that her boiler was not BER. 
I recognise the argument Mrs R is seeking to advance here. But B is the manufacturer of the 
boiler, which may explain why it could obtain the parts it needed more cheaply. And if the 
cost of replacement parts and labour that B was able to source were less than the current 
market value of the boiler then B wouldnt be deemed to be BER. 
EIC has acknowledged that there can be a cost difference between its repair and that by a 
manufacturer. So, while Bs repair costs were much cheaper, this doesnt mean EICs repair 
costs were incorrect or excessive. It was entitled to use the information it had obtained for 
the cost of parts and labour in calculating the overall cost of repairing the boiler.Mrs R has disputed the market value that EIC attributed to her boiler. I can see EIC provided 
helpful detail on this issue following our investigators initial view. This information shows that 
EIC used an initial market value of £900 for Mrs Rs boiler. I dont think this was 
unreasonable and Mrs R hasnt provided our service with any evidence showing that her 
boiler cost more than £900 when it was purchased.
EIC has showed our service that, in determining the current market value of Mrs Rs boiler, it 
used a recognised industry calculation, which takes into account the purchase value, age, 
make and model of the boiler. It explained that, in line with industry guidelines, it applies a 
10% reduction each year as a boilers value depreciates by around 10% each year. 
Having carefully considered the calculation EIC provided our service, Im satisfied that the 
market value it attributed to Mrs Rs boiler  namely £387.42  properly reflects its age, 
depreciation, make, model and therefore its current market value.
Because the cost of the repair far exceeded the current market value of Mrs Rs boiler, Im 
satisfied it was fair and reasonable for EIC to assess the boiler as BER. As this decision was 
correct in the overall circumstances, Im not going to direct that EIC to contribute towards the 
cost of the repair that B undertook.
I understand that EIC cancelled Mrs Rs policy after her boiler was deemed BER. This is in 
line with the policy terms. So, I cant say EIC acted unreasonably in terminating Mrs Rs 
policy. 
Mrs R asked our service to direct EIC to refund the £45 excess payment she made when 
she reported her claim. However, as our investigator explained, the policy terms define the 
words excess and claim. They say an excess is a payment towards each claim. And 
that a claim is a request for a repair or assistance. 
Mrs R raised a claim and asked for assistance with a boiler repair. An engineer was 
deployed on this basis. So, Im satisfied that an excess payment was fair and reasonable. It 
follows that Im not going to direct EIC to refund the payment Mrs R made.
As I set out in the background to this complaint, Mrs R has shared concerns with our service 
that she felt pressured to take out finance to fund the cost of a new boiler. I understand that 
the financial checks on Mrs Rs credit status werent successful, which led to the finance 
application not being completed. So, the new boiler order didnt proceed any further.
I can understand why Mrs R may have been upset if she felt pressured. However, the policy 
terms state that if the boiler cant be repaired EIC is obliged to assist a policyholder with 
other options, which is what I think the engineer wanted to do. 
As our investigator has already explained, its very difficult to assess what happened in 
relation to exchange between the engineer and Mrs R within her home - particularly in the 
absence of an account from the engineer involved and records about what happened. I cant 
safely infer that Mrs R was pressured to take out finance. And, as the finance application 
wasnt successful, Mrs R hasnt suffered financial detriment. So, I havent seen enough to 
lead me to conclude that compensation ought to be paid to Mrs R.
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that Mrs R wasnt mis-sold her insurance policy 
with EIC and I dont think it acted unfairly in how it handled her claim for a repair to her 
boiler. Im therefore not upholding this complaint.I realise Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with EIC informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs R 
further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman