DRN-3165128
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) unfairly reduced the final 
bonus on his pension plan, failed to advise him it had done so and then took too long to 
investigate his complaint about it. He would like the reduction reversed and Aviva to change 
its procedures so that customers are aware of the amount to be actually paid.
What happened
Mr Ss plan was invested in Avivas with-profits fund. It provided a retirement pack dated 23 
April 2020, projecting a fund value on 24 May 2020 (the retirement date of the plan) of 
around £4,728. This comprised a plan value of £3,082 and a final bonus of £1,646. Mr S 
decided to take his benefits as a lump sum payment and returned the paperwork to Aviva. 
He says he was then shocked when a lower figure than expected was paid into his bank 
account.  
Mr S called Aviva. It said the final fund value on 24 May 2020, was around £347 less 
(7.35%) than the total provided on 23 April 2020. The plan value had increased slightly but 
the final bonus had been reduced by around £357 to £1,288. 
Mr S complained to Aviva. He said the stock market had risen between 23 April 2020 and 24 
May 2020, but the final bonus had declined by 21.74%. He said he understood that the value 
of his plan wasnt guaranteed. But that he shouldve been informed of such a large 
reduction, in case he wanted to review his decision. He said during the call Aviva had said 
that only reductions of more than 9% would be advised. He said this was fraudulent if it 
was then slashing bonus rates by up to 9% when it was too late for the customer to 
change their mind.
Aviva couldnt provide a response to Mr Ss complaint within eight weeks. But it sent Mr S a 
document, With-Profits Customer News of 6 May 2020 (the bulletin). This said final bonus 
rates had been reduced due to unprecedented investment markets and that most policy 
pay-outs would reduce between 5-7.5% as a result. 
Aviva responded to Mr Ss complaint on 3 September 2020. It said that the aim of the with-
profits fund was to smooth out investment returns by keeping back some of the gains made 
in good years to help pay bonuses in poor years. This meant the full extent of the recent fall 
in the value of the fund (-12.4%) hadnt been fully passed on with the reduction being around 
7.35%. And, due to the way the with-profits fund works there will be occasions where the 
final value differs from the estimated value.
Mr S said Aviva hadnt explained why it had taken so long for it to respond to his complaint. 
Or, why the bonus rate reduced whilst the stock market had risen. Or, why it had taken so 
long to send the bulletin after hed complained. He said the quote provided on 23 April 2020 
should have reflected the reduced bonus rate. Or if this wasnt in place until 6 May 2020, 
why hadnt he been informed the final bonus had been reduced by over 21%. If he had been, 
he said he wouldnt have proceeded and wouldve benefited from the expected V shaped 
recovery in investment markets. 
Aviva said, it had already apologised for the delay in dealing with the complaint. This was 
caused by Covid related office closures and an uptick in complaints about investment 
returns. It said it had answered Mr Ss point about the performance of the with-profit fund. It 
said the question about notifying customers about falls in valuations exceeding 9%, had 
been dealt with during the telephone call. It said whilst the final bonus had fallen by around 
21% the overall reduction was 7.35% - less than the 9% notification level in place. And, it 
said the bonus review hadnt been completed when the estimate dated 23 April 2020 was 
prepared. 
 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. He said the retirement pack provided by Aviva 
was referred to as a quote and was therefore guaranteed rather than being an estimate.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
He said it wasnt unreasonable that Aviva had reduced the discretionary final bonus rate. As 
despite investment markets increasing in May 2020 theyd fallen sharply in March 2020. He 
said Avivas retirement pack made it clear the value wasnt guaranteed and it couldnt have 
provided a figure on the new bonus rate until after it was implemented. He said our service 
didnt regulate Aviva and couldnt tell it to change its procedures about notifying customers of 
investment value reductions. He agreed the delay in Aviva dealing with his complaint was 
frustrating but said that Mr S didnt appear to have lost out because of it, and it had correctly 
advised him about his right to refer his complaint to our service. 
 
Mr S disagreed, making a number of further points:
After the issue of the bulletin, Aviva had two weeks to tell him the bonus rate had 
changed but it hadnt informed him until 20 July 2020.
If Aviva only informed customers of greater than 9% reductions in investment value, 
why was this bulletin issued as the fall was only between 5-7.5%. 
That our service should challenge Aviva over why it couldnt respond to his complaint 
within eight weeks rather than implying it is perfectly acceptable that it couldnt.
He disagreed that the words quote and estimate are interchangeable as a quote 
was a fixed price. He said Aviva was being deliberately misleading by using both 
words in its information about his plan.
He said our service was not impartial and was favouring Aviva. 
As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. 
The role of our service is to resolve complaints informally and impartially. We do this by 
looking at the evidence and considering the law, regulations and normal industry practices 
applying to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
We dont regulate financial businesses, which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
That means I cant tell Aviva to change administrative procedures or impose sanctions on it if 
I think there have been failings. And we cant usually consider complaints about how a 
complaint has been dealt with by a business, because complaint handling itself isnt a 
regulated activity and falls outside our jurisdiction. What I can consider is whether a businesss mistakes caused someone a financial loss 
and/or distress and inconvenience and, if so, what the business needs to do to put things 
right. 
Ive considered everything Mr S has said and appreciate his frustration at receiving less than 
he expected. I know my decision will disappoint him, but I dont think Aviva has treated him 
unfairly. As Mr S has accepted nothing was guaranteed here and Aviva wasnt providing him 
with advice, it was instead following his instructions. 
I think Avivas retirement pack of 23 April 2020, whether called a quote, as on the covering 
letter, or an estimate as on the document itself, was only a projection or forecast of what the 
plan might be worth. It wasnt an offer because of the caveats also set out. The document 
specifically said the figures werent guaranteed and could change. It also said that:
the retirement fund used in this pack is what we estimate your plan will be worth on 
24 May 2020  
and that Aviva would:
 work out the final value of your plan on your actual retirement date 
The with-profit fund holds a mix of assets and seeks to smooth the ups and downs typical of 
investment markets and I think thats what it did here. Aviva confirmed in the bulletin the fund 
fell in value in the first three months of 2020 by 12.4%. 
Avivas with-profit guide sets out a summary of how the fund operates. It says final bonuses 
are normally reviewed twice a year. But they can be reviewed at any time if there are large 
changes in investment values. It also confirms that: 
Final bonus rates can change at any time, arent guaranteed and could be zero. 
When it carries out the twice-yearly review Aviva issues an update, and these are available 
on its website. The reason it issued the May 2020 bulletin was because it had carried out an 
ad hoc review. It wasnt connected to the 9% reduction figure and a number of Avivas other 
investment funds would have fallen by more than 9% in March 2020.
The timing of the reduction was unfortunate for Mr S, but there was no requirement for Aviva 
to update Mr S about the value of his plan after he returned the documentation to take his 
benefits. Changes to the final bonus rate applied to all policyholders. And whilst it was 
reduced by more than 9% itself there was no requirement to flag this to Mr S as the overall 
reduction in his plan value was less at 7.35%.
Aviva also carried out the usual half yearly bonus review on 1 July 2020. Final bonus rates 
remained unchanged from the ad hoc review in April/May 2020. So, it doesnt appear there 
would have been a short-term bounce in Mr Ss fund value had he deferred taking his 
benefits in May 2020. And had he deferred he would have needed to consider the ongoing 
risk that investment markets could have declined again as well as any liquidity 
considerations through not having the funds available to him at the time.  
Taking everything into consideration I dont think Aviva has treated Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably. It processed his instructions and didnt have an obligation to update him of the 
change in value. The value estimated to 24 May 2020 was only a forecast as the final bonus 
wasnt guaranteed. The smoothing provided by the with-profits investment strategy does 
appear to have protected Mr S from the full impact of the sharp decline in value in the underlying fund in the weeks before his selected retirement date. And it doesnt appear there 
was a short-term bounce in the with-profit fund even if Mr S had decided to defer. 
As I dont think Aviva has treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably it neednt do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman