DRN-4426646
The complaint
Mr W complains that AJ Bell Management Limited unduly delayed the closure of his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) which resulted in 75% of the payment being significantly 
less than it would have been but for the delay.
What happened
Mr W had a Share Dealing SIPP. AJ Bell was the scheme administrator.
Mr W says he contacted AJ Bell on 10 January 2022 and told it he wanted to withdraw his 
whole pension pot. He says that by 14 January 2022, hed sent the completed forms to it 
and asked for all his funds to be paid out. He heard nothing further and contacted AJ Bell 
again in March 2022. It asked him to complete another form. When he complained about 
this, he says AJ Bell confirmed to him that it would value his pension pot as at 12 January 
2022  which was the date when it first received the forms.
Mr W sent a further set of forms to AJ Bell on 2 March. He says he subsequently received 
25% of his pension pot as a tax free cash sum. This amount was based on the value on 12 
January 2022 but the remaining 75% of his pot was valued as at the date of payment which 
was May 2022. Mr W says that by that stage there had been significant falls in market 
values.
Mr W complained to AJ Bell about what had happened.
AJ Bell investigated his complaint. It said it had reviewed the communications that had 
occurred and it was clear from the onset of the closure process that sufficient cash was 
needed to cover the benefit request. This was stated on the forms hed completed and AJ 
Bell said it had also been included in emails it sent to Mr W. There was no evidence that 
hed instructed disinvestment in January and in any event AJ Bell said it wouldnt have any 
input to the disinvestment process since it was an execution only provider.
AJ Bell said that once the SIPP was disinvested the closure was able to proceed. Although 
it had based the tax free cash amount on the SIPP value on 12 January 2022, it said it 
could not reasonably be expected to calculate the closing payment as of that date when
Mr W hadnt disinvested the SIPP until May.
Mr W did not agree. He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
his complaint. He thought that Mr Ws instruction to AJ Bell to withdraw the entirety of his 
SIPP carried the implication that the SIPP should be completely disinvested which should 
have been sufficient.
He thought that March 2022 was the relevant date since that was the date when the correct 
forms were returned. He thought AJ Bell should pay Mr W the difference between the value 
of the funds on 16 March 2022 and the date they were subsequently paid together with 8% 
simple interest on that amount up to the date of settlement. He also thought AJ Bell should 
pay Mr W £300 for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced at a time when he 
urgently needed funds to pay his mortgage.
AJ Bell did not agree. It said that under the arrangements in place for the Share Dealing 
SIPP, it had no involvement with the disinvestment aspect of the closure process. It also 
said it had made the terms and conditions clear to Mr W and he knew that he was 
responsible for issuing the disinvestment instructions. It said Mr W had previously given 
investment instructions and knew how the system worked.
Because AJ Bell disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive provisionally 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I realise this will disappoint Mr W so Ill explain 
the reasons why Ive reached that view.
The terms and conditions for the Share Dealing SIPP
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Mr Ws SIPP. These are made up of 
several inter-related documents which Ill comment on:
The Share Dealing SIPP Service terms and conditions
These terms and conditions set out the contractual arrangements between Mr W 
and H which was the provider of the sharedealing SIPP service.
The first section of this document set out an explanation of how the Service worked.
It explained that AJ Bell was the administrator of the Scheme and was responsible 
for providing pension administration services. H provided the clearing, settlement, 
custody and brokerage services.
The terms and conditions also explained that the assets of the Scheme were owned 
by named Trustees  but these assets were held in trust for Mr Ws benefit. 
Because the service offered was an execution only service, the Trustees had 
appointed Mr W as their agent for the purposes of giving instructions to H.
The AJ Bell terms and conditions
These terms and conditions reiterated that AJ Bell provided the administration and 
management services for the Scheme. It was an execution only service and Mr W 
had been appointed as the agent of the Trustees only for the purposes of giving 
investment instructions directly to H.
Mr W accepted these terms and conditions when he applied for the SIPP in July 
2020.
Having read the terms and conditions, I think they did provide reasonable 
explanations about how the service worked. It was an execution only service andMr W himself was responsible for giving instructions about his investments directly 
to H.
AJ Bell has also pointed out that Mr W had given instructions directly to H on a 
number of occasions between July 2020 and May 2022. It has provided a listing 
which shows that Mr W provided both sale and purchase instructions during this 
period. So, Im satisfied on balance that he was aware of how the SIPP worked and 
that it was his responsibility to give investment and disinvestment instructions 
directly to H.
Mr Ws request to close his SIPP
Ive looked at the sequence of events that happened after Mr W first contacted AJ 
Bell to close the SIPP.
Mr W initially completed the incorrect form. Its not clear what circumstances led to 
that form being completed but I can see that AJ Bell subsequently sent him the 
correct form in February together with a further leaflet about Taking Benefits. This 
leaflet set out the process and the timelines that would apply to his application. Step 
5 on the leaflet stated that he needed to fully complete and submit the benefit form. 
It also included the following paragraph:
Please ensure you have sufficient funds in your SIPP cash account as your 
payment could be delayed if not.
Mr W completed the form and returned it to AJ Bell on 2 March. It appears that he 
subsequently contacted AJ Bell on 9 March to enquire about when he would receive 
his payment. He followed this up on 14 March with an email which started with the 
words:
Please help me!!!
AJ Bell responded:
As per our correspondence sent to yourself on the 11/03/22 by my 
colleague it appears you still have funds invested within your SIPP.
Please arrange for the funds to be fully disinvested and confirm when 
processed. If you havent already done so, please arrange for the SIPP to be 
disinvested in full by calling the [telephone contact details]
I can see that the correspondence dated 11 March had included a paragraph in bold 
which said:
I note that funds are still invested. Please arrange for the funds to be fully 
disinvested and confirm when processed.
Ive also noted that after Mr W appointed a representative, his representative was 
told on 24 and 29 March about the need to disinvest the funds to enable closure to 
go ahead. There was also further correspondence to Mr W at this time which 
reiterated the need for him to disinvest his funds.So, Im satisfied that if Mr W was in doubt about what he needed to do, AJ Bell took 
reasonable steps to clarify matters to both him and his representative.
When the funds had not been disinvested, AJ Bell wrote again to Mr W on 3 May 
reminding him about the need to disinvest the funds. It was only after this date that 
the funds were disinvested and the closure was able to proceed.
Having thought about the sequence of events here, it is the case that Mr W initially 
sought clarification and assistance about what he needed to do. But Im satisfied 
that in response to his requests, AJ Bell did explain to him what he needed to do. It 
did that in a timely manner. Im also persuaded that, based on the fact Mr W had 
previously placed investment instructions using the online service, he wouldve 
known how to disinvest the funds. He hasnt explained why he didnt do that as soon 
as AJ Bell made the position clear to him and his representative.
Mr W says that AJ Bell told him during a call in or about 1 March 2022 that it would 
value his pension as at the 12 January 2022. I asked AJ Bell for a copy of this call. It 
asked for further details about the call to help with tracing its records. Mr W provided 
details of a call on 28 February 2022  but having listened to that call it doesnt 
include the conversation that hes referred to.
I can see that on 29 March 2022, AJ Bell told Mr Ws representative that it had 
listened to the call dated 1 March 2022. AJ Bell said that during that call Mr W had 
been told that it would value the Post Commencement Lump Sum (sometimes 
referred to as the tax free lump sum) as at 12 January 2022 but there was no 
promise to pay out the whole SIPP value as at that date.
Having considered what both parties have said, Im persuaded, on balance, that its 
likely Mr W was told that AJ Bell would honour the tax free cash amount (based on 
the 12 January value). It has done that. AJ Bell says that the closing payment 
should be based on the closing balance. Im also persuaded, on balance, having 
considered everything here, that the closing payment should be based on the 
closing balance.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think its fair or reasonable to say that AJ Bell 
should be responsible for any financial loss Mr W suffered as a result of the delay in 
completing the disinvestment.
Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr W could have disinvested the funds much earlier in 
the process. AJ Bell told him on 14 March to arrange for the SIPP to be disinvested 
in full. It had given him the telephone contact details to enable him to do that. Ive 
also noted that it was over a month after AJ Bell told his representative that he 
needed to disinvest the SIPP before he proceeded to do that.
Having considered everything here, Ive provisionally decided that AJ Bell has acted 
fairly and reasonably. I dont think it should have to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint about AJ Bell Management Limited.AJ Bell said that it agreed with the provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Mr W did not agree with the provisional decision. He asked for a copy of a call hed made 
initially to H which was then transferred to AJ Bell on 1 March 2022. He provided details of 
the time of the call. Our service asked AJ Bell to provide a call recording for that call - which 
it then provided. Our service sent a copy of the call recording to Mr W.
Mr W said that the call recording provided evidence to support what hed said about AJ Bell 
confirming it would use the 12 January 2022 as the date it would value his payment. He 
said there was no discussion during the call about only using this date to value the tax free 
lump sum.
Mr W also made the following points, by way of summary:
His complaint was that AJ Bell had not valued his SIPP as at 12 January 2022 for its 
full closure and withdrawal amount despite having said it would do so.
The call recording clearly supported Mr Ws statement that AJ Bell had told him it 
would value the whole of his SIPP at 12 January 2022. It had not done that.
So, I now have to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully to the recording of the conversation, which has now been provided, 
between Mr W and AJ Bell on 1 March 2022. During this call Mr W stated several times that 
he wanted to take all of the money out of his SIPP. He commented on the fact that the value 
of his SIPP had fallen quite markedly and he just wanted to take it out. He also explained 
that he was struggling and he needed the money. AJ Bell said it had looked through his file 
and acknowledged hed been through a long process. AJ Bell said it would value the SIPP 
as at 12 January 2022 (the date it had received the incorrect form). The value at that date 
was just over £29,000 whereas the value on the date of the telephone call was around 
£23,000. 
Mr W asked for assistance to fill in the form hed been sent on 9 February and AJ Bell talked 
him through the form. He posted the completed form to it that day and it was received on 2 
March 2022. 
It is the case that during the phone call on 1 March 2022, AJ Bell did tell Mr W that the 
payment would be based on the 12 January 2022 amount. And as Mr W points out, AJ Bell 
didnt distinguish between the tax free amount and the residual closing balance amount. 
Because of that, Mr W thinks AJ Bell should be required to honour the value of his SIPP as 
at 12 January 2022  - even though subsequent to the telephone call he didnt disinvest the 
SIPP until May 2022. 
So, Ive thought about whether its fair and reasonable, given all of the circumstances here, 
to have expected AJ Bell to have honoured the 12 January 2022 value when the final 
payments were made in May 2022.
Mr W told AJ Bell on 1 March 2022 he was struggling and needed the money. Hed been 
informed in the letter dated 9 February (which included the benefit form he completed with the assistance of AJ Bell on 1 March) he needed to have sufficient cash in his SIPP cash 
account otherwise the payment could be delayed. AJ Bell reiterated to him on 11 March, 17 
March and 24 March he needed to disinvest his SIPP before the payment could be made. AJ 
Bell also informed his representative of this on 24 March and 29 March 2022.
After that date Mr W took no further action until AJ Bell sent him an email on 3 May. He 
responded by contacting AJ Bell to say that his representative would be completing the 
disinvestment. Subsequently the funds were disinvested.
As mentioned above, when thinking about how a complaint should be resolved our service 
considers whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances of the 
case. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was satisfied, on balance, Mr W 
was aware of how the SIPP worked and that it was his responsibility to give investment and 
disinvestment instructions directly to H. I remain of that view. I also set out the sequence of 
events that had happened here and explained why I thought AJ Bell had provided Mr W with 
enough information, in a timely manner, to enable him to take the actions he needed to take 
to enable the payment to proceed.
Having looked at the sequence of events again, Ive noted that despite having been advised 
several times, both before and after 1 March 2022, that he needed to disinvest his SIPP 
before AJ Bell could comply with his instructions, Mr W didnt disinvest the SIPP until May 
2022. Given what hed said about needing the money, Id have expected Mr W to have taken 
action to disinvest the SIPP as soon as AJ Bell made clear to him what he needed to do. 
Mr W didnt disinvest the SIPP in March 2022 despite being told he needed to do that and he 
doesnt appear to have taken any action in April 2022 either. He only took action after AJ 
Bell sent him a further email at the start of May. Mr W hasnt provided any explanation for 
the delay in disinvesting the SIPP.
In these circumstances, Ive thought about whether it is fair and reasonable to expect AJ Bell 
to have continued to honour the value as at 12 January 2022 at the point in time when Mr W 
disinvested the SIPP  around 4 months later. Having done so, Im not persuaded, on 
balance, AJ Bell has acted unfairly and unreasonably here when it didnt calculate the 
closing value of the SIPP as at 12 January 2022.
During the telephone call on 1 March AJ Bell had acknowledged the lengthy process Mr W 
had already been through - because hed been sent an incorrect form. However, he was 
sent the correct form together with the relevant instructions on 9 February. He was given 
assistance with completing that form on 1 March and both Mr W and his representative were 
given several reminders during March about the need to disinvest the funds before the 
payment could proceed. But Mr W didnt take the necessary action until May 2022, and only 
after being prompted by AJ Bell.
Having considered all the circumstances here, I dont think its fair or reasonable to have 
expected AJ Bell to continue to stand over the 12 January 2022 value when Mr W didnt do 
everything Id have expected him to have done to expedite the payment. Mr W didnt take 
action to put enough funds into his SIPP cash account until May 2022. AJ Bell made the 
payments hed requested shortly after that. As I said in my provisional decision, I think its 
reasonable to have expected Mr W to have acted much earlier in the process to have 
disinvested the SIPP. I remain of that view. 
AJ Bell did calculate the tax free lump sum payment based on the value at 12 January 2022 
 but not the residual amount. Although I know Mr W will be disappointed Ive decided, on 
balance, after considering everything again, that AJ Bell has acted fairly and reasonably 
here. I dont require it to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about AJ Bell Management 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman