DRN-3977309
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Moneybarn No. 
1 Limited (who Ill call Moneybarn) was of unsatisfactory quality and was misrepresented to 
him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I think Moneybarn have done enough here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Satisfactory quality
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr C. The car here was already 
about 10 years old and had already completed about 87,000 miles. So, I think it likely that 
there would be some wear and tear present and that some components would be reaching 
the end of their serviceable life.
Mr C has explained he has a problem with the air conditioning thats not been diagnosed yet, 
hes told us he believes the air conditioning pump is on its way out. I can see he raised the 
issue with Moneybarn when he originally complained, but that they didnt respond on that 
point. On the evidence provided I think its likely this fault is a wear and tear issue that could 
be expected on a vehicle of this age and mileage, and I dont think Moneybarn need to take 
any action regarding it.
I can see that the auxiliary belt tensioner needed some attention in December 2022 but, as 
that was about seven months after Mr C had taken receipt of the car and about 4,700 miles 
later, I dont think its likely that fault was developing when the car was supplied. I dont think 
Mr C is claiming that either. But, for clarity, Id agree that I dont think it would be fair to hold 
Moneybarn responsible. 
Misrepresentation
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for 
what they say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes 
out the credit agreement.
So, if Mr C was given a false statement of fact or law by the supplier regarding the servicing 
of the car, that was a significant factor in persuading him to enter into the agreement, I may 
think the agreement was misrepresented to him and in those circumstances I may hold 
Moneybarn responsible for putting things right.
It's Mr Cs testimony that the supplier told him the cam belt had been changed in line with 
the servicing requirements. Hes subsequently discovered it wasnt and hed like the 
business to ensure its done before the belt fails.
I dont think I have sufficient evidence to persuade me Mr C was given a false statement of 
fact about the servicing. Whilst I understand his assertion, I dont have information to 
demonstrate the car was sold with a full service history. Ive not seen the original advert and 
Mr C has suggested the information shown on the advert would have been likely to be 
minimal anyway. The service book shows there was a gap in the servicing in 2018, so it 
seems unlikely the car would have been advertised with a full service history as the stamps 
in the book would clearly show that wasnt the case. 
Given the limited information I think Moneybarns offer of £175 towards the cost of any cam 
belt repair was a fair one, and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman