DRN-2645519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the process used when they wanted to take their money out of 
an investment. They say they hadnt been happy with the performance of the investment 
since opening it in 2018. 
Responsibility for the process to surrender the investment now sits with Embark Investments 
Limited. Ill refer to Embark in my decision to mean it, and the companies that managed the 
process before it. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L arent happy with the time it took to take money out of their investments. 
Theyve said they expected to be able to call up and close the investments the same day. 
Theyre not happy they had to fill out some paper forms before Embark would act, as this 
meant they missed a 9:30am cut-off for the instruction to be processed the same day. 
Their money was released from the investments two days after they called Embark. Mr and 
Mrs L are unhappy that the value they received on that date was less than the value they 
were told their investments held when theyd called. And theyve also complained that when 
they finally received their money, Embark kept a small amount of it. 
Embarks response to the complaint confirmed a lot of the facts of Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
But it went on to explain why it had done things the way it had. Aside from an email it said 
should have been sent after Mr Ls call, Embark didnt uphold the complaints against it.
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked at the details of what 
happened, and explained why he too didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, he said Embark 
had acted in line with its terms and conditions, and hadnt made any mistakes. The time the 
surrender of the investments took seemed reasonable on that basis, as did the loss in value 
that resulted. 
Unhappy with that view, Mr and Mrs L asked for the complaint to be looked at again. So its 
come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive found the service Embark provided was reasonable, even though it 
wasnt as Mr and Mrs L would have liked. Ill explain my decision.
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs L arent happy that their investments lost money since they took 
them out. Thats a result of the investment strategy used by the fund manager for the 
portfolio they invested in. It also reflects the changes in the trading prices of the various 
funds that make up the portfolio. And whether the investments were ultimately right for Mr 
and Mrs Ls investment aims comes back to whether the advice to invest was suitable. 
But the advisor, the fund manager and the trade prices are separate to Embark, and not 
within its direct control. So Im not going to consider complaints about them here, against 
Embark. That ultimately means I wont be commenting on the changes in the investments 
values while Mr and Mrs L had them. Other than saying I cant see Embark have made any 
mistakes when applying those changes to Mr and Mrs Ls investments. 
The main issue remaining is then the time it took  two days  to surrender the investments. 
From what Embark has said, its process is usually for a financial advisor to make that 
request, using an online system. So Embark wouldnt usually be expecting a direct 
instruction from their customers. Their terms and conditions do allow for it, but theres no 
specific process described, or expectation set for how long it should take. 
Also, my understanding of the investments here is that they aimed to give a return over a 
medium to long term. So Embark wouldnt necessarily be expecting to receive an instruction 
to close an investment at short-notice. 
And I note Embark took extra steps in this specific case, after Mr L complained during his 
call. It arranged for the paperwork to be looked at after being emailed, rather than waiting for 
it to be posted. That meant Embark could pass the instruction to the fund manager in a 
single day. 
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs L would have liked the process to have anticipated and been 
able to perfectly suit the situation they were in at the moment when they called. But I find 
that would go beyond what I consider to be a reasonable level of service. Embarks actions 
did enough to act on Mr and Mrs Ls instructions and specific circumstances in a reasonable 
amount of time, given the more unusual nature of the request. Embark also look to have 
acted in keeping with the expectation set by its terms and conditions. 
The change in the investments values  between the day Mr L called Embark and two days 
later when its holdings were sold  reflects the change in its market value. In response to our 
investigators view on this, Mr Ls referred to valuations Embark sent him after his call. Hes 
said the email with those valuations should have made it clearer that they werent the values 
he and Mrs L would get when the investments were surrendered.
But, having listened to the call where Mr L asked for these valuations to be sent, it was clear 
he wasnt being given the surrender value. Mr L had spoken about claiming for the difference 
between the value that day and the eventual sale price. That seems to be why he asked for 
the valuations in writing. The call taker then explained they would send the valuations, but 
couldnt guarantee the future value of the investments. 
As such, I find Embark could reasonably have expected Mr and Mrs L to understand  
without specifically saying in the cover email  that the figures in the valuation letters were 
the values at that time, rather than what they would eventually get.
Next, Ive looked at the small deductions made when Mr and Mrs L received their money 
from Embark. Its said this was a fee  a tiered platform charge. I havent seen that specific 
fee in the terms and conditions document weve been given. But I have seen a portfolio 
charge described, which looks to work in tiers based on the size of the investment held. 
Im satisfied thats probably the fee thats been charged, rather than the deduction being a 
mistake. And as such, I find its reasonable for Embark to have charged it. Finally, Ive noted Embark have apologised to Mr and Mrs L for not sending them some 
details that it said it would, after Mr Ls call. In Mr Ls complaint letter, he said the email was 
to detail the time frames for selling our investment.
Looking at what Mr Ls sent us in response to our investigators view, I can see Embark sent 
an email shortly after his call that said the following:
Our claims team have agreed to action the withdrawal quicker than our standard 
processing timescales of 10 working days to process and then sent by BACs. Please 
can you either send the forms back to us by email or by post. Once this has been 
received the team will place the sells of the funds and as soon as the funds are 
available we will authorise the payment by TT.
Having listened to the call before this email, I find these details are the ones the call taker 
had referred to when saying they would email Mr L about timescales. As such, I dont see 
Embark need to do anything further to put right this part of the complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman