DRN-3089150
The complaint
Mr M complains that he wasnt provided with the service he should have been when dealing 
with a payment from his credit card to a company that had gone into administration.
What happened
Mr M bought tickets from a holiday company costing around £1,800 using his credit card. 
Before the tickets could be used the holiday company went into administration. Mr M lodged 
a claim with Halifax, and Halifax placed a marker on his monthly statement, so the amount 
wasnt collected. In November 2019, Mr M received a full refund for the cost of the tickets, 
but Halifax didnt delete the marker. Mr M says he raised the issue with Halifax in January 
and February 2020 and was told he didnt owe anything. Based on this he says he believed 
he didnt owe the ticket cost to Halifax and this view was supported by him not hearing 
anything further for over a year. 
In February 2021, Mr M received a refund for another purchase but says this was then used 
to offset the previous £1,800 disputed amount. Mr M raised a complaint about the February 
refund and received a letter dated 9 March 2021 saying the refund would be made and the 
dispute marker would be closed on the £1,800 with the disputed amount credited to balance 
this out. Mr M says based on this he didnt think he owed anything further.
In May 2021, Mr M received a notification about the disputed amount saying that as the 
retailer had provided a refund the full amount would be debited to his account. Mr M raised a 
complaint about this with Halifax. Halifax offered to pay him compensation of £150 to reflect 
the issues with the disputed amount (this was additional to amounts of £150 and £70 that 
had been paid in March and April due to issues related to this). Mr M says he doesnt dispute 
he owes the money but doesnt think £150 is enough to compensate him for the time the 
issue had been outstanding, that he was told he didnt owe anything, the time he has spent 
dealing with the issue and the distress this has caused. 
Halifax accepted that mistakes had been made with the disputed transaction. It issued letters 
accepting that Mr M hadnt been provided with the service he should have and advised that it 
had paid £220.00 in March and April 2021 because of the issues raised at that time and 
offered a further £150 in May 2021. It also agreed to freeze interest on Mr Ms account for 
six months to allow Mr M to bring his complaint to this service. It believed this a reasonable 
in response to Mr Ms complaint.
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr Ms account had been mismanaged for an extended 
period and the upset this would have caused. He also thought given the issues on Mr Ms 
account and how these had been dealt with that when the re-debiting of the amount was 
identified, Halifax could have handled this process better. However, he explained that the 
issue hadnt caused Mr M any financial loss and no interest was accrued on the disputed 
transaction. He noted the inconvenience caused when the second refund came in but that 
this was resolved in a relatively short timeframe. Therefore, while he accepted the issues 
had caused Mr M distress and inconvenience he thought the compensation already awarded 
was reasonable.
Mr M didnt think that given the time the issue had been ongoing, and the opportunities that 
Halifax had had to put things right that the compensation paid was sufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case it has been accepted that mistakes have been made and that Halifax hasnt 
provided Mr M with the service it should have over an extended period regarding the 
management of the disputed transaction on his account. The outstanding issue is whether 
the compensation awarded by Halifax is sufficient.
Halifax provided £150 compensation in March 2021 in recognition of issues on a call (£50) 
and the disputed transaction marker remaining on Mr Ms account (£100). It then provided a 
further £70 in April 2021 as the actions set out in the March letter hadnt taken place. I can 
understand why at this point (and given previous communication on this issue) that Mr M 
thought the matter was resolved and that he didnt owe anything to Halifax. However, in May 
2021 he was told that the cost of the tickets would be re-debited from his account. He raised 
a further complaint in May 2021 and doesnt think the offer of £150 compensation made at 
that time is enough.
As the amount for the tickets is due  as Mr M received a full refund for the tickets  I cannot 
say Halifax is wrong to re-debit this amount. However, had the issue been dealt with when 
Mr M had received the refund then he wouldnt have needed to raise a complaint. His initial 
complaint was raised following the issue with a second refund and the issue with the second 
refund was resolved. However, the issue with the disputed transaction marker wasnt fully 
understood and so the actions taken at that time didnt resolve this issue. Therefore, Mr M 
needed to raise a further complaint in May 2021 (after notification that the funds would be re-
debited).
I can see that the handling of the disputed transaction on Mr Ms account has caused him 
inconvenience and distress. I have noted the previous amounts of compensation paid in 
March and April 2021 and having considered the issue raised, I think that the offer of £150 
made in May 2021 is reasonable. I have set out my reasons for this decision below.
When the initial issue with the payment was raised a marker was placed on Mr Ms 
account so interest wasnt charged, and payment wasnt taken. This was a 
reasonable response to the issue and meant that Mr M didnt suffer any short term 
loss by needing to make payment before any refund had been provided.
Mr M was provided with a refund for the full amount in November 2019, and Mr M 
didnt accrue interest on the disputed amount and therefore he hasnt suffered any 
financial loss due to this issue. 
When the refund was applied, the marker wasnt removed from Mr Ms account and 
so payment wasnt being requested which meant Mr M was benefitting from the 
refund to his account for the period between when this was applied to when the funds 
were re-debited.
However, while Mr M hasnt suffered a financial loss due to the issue, it has caused 
him distress and inconvenience and I think compensation is required. Mr M has said 
he made contact in January and February 2020 and was told he didnt owe anything. 
It doesnt then appear that this issue caused Mr M any significant concerns until there 
was an issue with a second refund in February 2021. The second refund issue was resolved but the disputed transaction marker wasnt correctly addressed. Mr M was 
then contacted in May 2021 about the amount being re-debited and I agree with our 
investigators comments that this could have been handled better. Taking into 
account the number of times Mr M has raised the issue and the time taken to resolve 
this and assessing the impact this has had on Mr M I think in this case the £150 in 
May 2021 for the ongoing issues relating to the disputed transaction (noting this is 
additional to previous related compensation payments) is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that the £150 compensation offered (additional to the previous payments 
of £150 and £70) by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax is reasonable. Therefore, I do 
not require it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman