DRN-4432422
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as C, complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) has unfairly turned down a claim under its Voluntary Organisations Insurance Policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, C owns a property which is used by children and their families for a respite break. 
The property is used by families either during or having completed treatment for cancer. 
The property was last used by a family in 2019. C said it hadnt been used for a number of 
years since, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
C said the property was regularly checked for routine care and this was last completed in 
March 2023. A short time later, in April 2023 there was a large water leak which caused 
extensive damage to the property. A plumber identified that the source of the leak was from 
a hot water storage tank.
A family had booked to the use the property in August 2023, however the booking had to be 
cancelled due to the leak and subsequent damage. 
C made a claim for the leak and damage under its Voluntary Organisations Insurance Policy. 
RSA instructed a loss adjuster to validate the claim on its behalf. RSA declined to provide 
indemnity under the policy and relied on an exclusion in the policy which said under the 
escape of water peril, damage was excluded in respect of any building which was empty or 
not in use. 
C didnt agree with RSAs reasoning for declining its claim. C said that due to the 
circumstances in which the property is used, there will be times it is vacant if no families 
require it. However, the property is always checked on, including the periods it is not being 
used by a family. C said the property is kept in good working order, so it is ready when a 
family requires it. 
RSA maintained that the policy didnt provide cover due to the above exclusion. C brought its 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman and an investigator looked at what happened. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that this complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that the 
property wasnt in use and therefore the policy exclusion applied. He concluded that RSAs 
decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable.  
C didnt agree with or investigators findings. In summary, C argued that the property was 
regularly checked and that the water leak would have happened irrespective of whether it 
was in use or not. C was also argued that one hand it was accepted the property would be 
intermittently used but then also applied the exclusion for being not in use. C explained that 
the reason the premises wasnt used was due to the impact of covid-19 on immune 
suppressed families which continued into 2022 while cases of Covid-19 were still being 
reported. C also complained that RSA did not handle the claim promptly or fairly  the delay 
in remedial works contributed to the overall cost of the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint centres on RSAs decision to decline Cs claim for escape of water 
and subsequent damage. The relevant rules and industry guidance say that RSA have a 
responsibility to handle the claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. I have to decide if I think RSA have applied the terms of the policy in a fair 
and reasonable manner when declining Cs claim. Having reviewed everything available to 
me, I think they did. I understand C will be disappointed by this and Im very sorry for the 
position it finds itself in, but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Id like to start by explaining what my decision covers. From what Ive seen, it seems to me 
like there are several parts to Cs complaint - the suitability of the insurance policy, the claim 
decline and RSAs handling of the claim. I understand this policy was sold through a broker 
and C has raised a separate complaint to the broker about the suitability of the product. My 
decision therefore focuses on RSAs decision to decline Cs claim. 
When considering whether or not it was reasonable for RSA to decline Cs claim, I have 
looked closely at the relevant policy terms and conditions.  
The relevant section states: 
Covers
5 Escape of water or oil from any tank apparatus or pipe excluding Damage 
A) by water discharged or leaking from an automatic sprinkler installation
B) in respect of any Building which is empty or not in use
RSA said that the property hadnt been in use since 2019 and therefore the above 
exclusion applies. 
While C accepts that the use of the property was intermittent, it says that its care and 
management was constant and therefore the above exception doesnt apply because 
essentially it was in use. 
Cs insurance schedule listed the insured property as a holiday home and C also accepts 
that was its only intended purpose. I am therefore satisfied that the property was to be used 
as a holiday home. 
In order to make a finding that RSAs decision to decline Cs claim was unfair and 
unreasonable, Id need to be satisfied that the property was in use when the escape of 
water happened. 
The policy doesnt define what it means by in use. Where a word isnt defined in the policy, 
we apply the words everyday and commonly used meaning. The meaning of in use in this 
context would be is it being regularly used by people. 
C accepts that the property hadnt been used as a holiday home since 2019 but argues that its care and management of the property, should mean it was in use. 
As Ive said above, the intended purpose of this property was for it to be used as a holiday 
home and Im satisfied that it hadnt been used as such since 2019. While I understand why 
the property wont always be occupied and its use may be intermittent, I need to consider 
whether it not being used by a family for almost four years, apart from someone checking in 
on it, could still be considered as being in use, and I dont think it can. Im not satisfied that 
the care and management of its running satisfies the requirement for the property to be in 
use. Someone checking the property is not the same as living in it and using its facilities. I 
therefore think that RSA have acted fairly and reasonably by saying the property wasnt in 
use when the escape of water and damage occurred. RSAs decision to apply the policy 
exclusion was therefore fair and reasonable.   
C said the property wasnt being used as a respite home due to the Covid-19 pandemic and 
the impact of it on immune suppressed families. While I have no doubt that this was the case 
and I appreciate that C was probably in a very difficult situation, Im satisfied that RSA have 
demonstrated the policy exclusion applies.
Further to the investigators opinion, C also raised concerns about claim delay. As the 
investigator pointed out, RSA havent been made aware of this part of Cs complaint. And in 
any event, because Im satisfied RSA justified their reason for declining Cs claim, I make no 
finding on this. 
As I explained above, I can only consider the issues that are RSAs responsibility under this 
complaint. And the way a broker sells a product and its suitability, are not RSAs 
responsibility. RSA is only responsible for its policy terms, and for considering claims under 
those terms.
Having considered everything carefully, overall, I think RSA acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining Cs claim due to a policy exclusion. While I sympathise with Cs position, I dont 
think there are any fair or reasonable grounds for me to say RSA did anything wrong in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman