DRN-3808004
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In summer 2021, Mr O was looking to invest and found some cryptocurrency websites, who 
offered 25% returns over four days. He felt they were genuine due to being high up on 
search results, having some good reviews, having professional-looking websites with live 
trading results and a live chat function, and because they claimed to be genuine regulated 
businesses. However, they turned out to be scam websites.
Mr O paid over £20,000 from his Monzo account to his crypto wallet, then on to the 
scammers. He realised it was a scam when they wouldnt let him withdraw his money. He 
reported the matter to Monzo, initially saying he didnt recognise some of the payments 
involved and wasnt sure which were his. He later clarified he had made the payments 
himself.
Monzo didnt think it was liable for Mr Os loss, primarily because hed sent the money from 
Monzo to a crypto account in his own name.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint in part. They 
thought Monzo should have intervened by the time Mr O sent on £4,000 in one go, and if 
theyd done so the scam couldve been stopped from that point on. But they also thought 
Mr O shared liability for the loss as he didnt carry out reasonable due diligence. They 
proposed that Monzo refund half of the £16,165 that was lost from the £4,000 payment 
onwards, plus relevant interest.
Monzo didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides accept Mr O authorised the payments involved, even if he didnt intend for the 
money to go to scammers. So, under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms of his 
account, Mr O is liable for the loss in the first instance. But the matter does not end there.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Monzo 
should have fairly and reasonably:
Monitored accounts and payments to counter risks such as fraud and scams;
Had systems in place to look out for particularly unusual transactions or other signs 
its customers were at risk of fraud;
In some circumstances, taken further steps or made further checks before a payment 
went out, or even blocked it, to help protect customers  irrespective of the type of 
payment involved.
I accept that there must be a balance between responding to potentially fraudulent payments 
and ensuring theres minimal disruption to legitimate ones. And I accept that Monzo cannot 
always predict the future, as it pointed out. But in this case, I think the payments involved 
stand out as being remarkable, so I think they should have prompted Monzo to intervene.
By the time Mr O attempted the £4,000 payment, hed tried to pay a very significant sum to 
the crypto platform that day, and an even more significant sum when factoring in his 
payments the two days prior. Hed made multiple payments over a relatively short period, 
which were quickly draining his account, to a relatively recent payee hed only paid once 
before this incident, with no confirmation of payee. The recipient was a crypto site, and by 
2021, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had published warnings 
about cryptocurrency scams, so Monzo shouldve had a good understanding of the risk of 
these scams and how they work. That all should have been of concern to Monzo. Indeed, 
I can see that Monzos own fraud systems started triggering just after this.
So I think Monzo ought reasonably to have made person-to-person enquiries with Mr O 
about the £4,000 payment before it processed it. Had Monzo intervened, I think it would 
have most likely come to light that Mr O was sending the money for an investment. And had 
Monzo probed appropriately and asked reasonable questions about the investment, I think it 
most likely could have unravelled the scam. Given the wholly unrealistic returns promised  
working out at over 2,000% pa, the scam warnings and reviews about these companies that 
were present by summer 2021, the lack of any proper paperwork, the fact that the websites 
were not regulated but claimed to be, the intelligence about crypto scams that Monzo had 
from the regulator and Action Fraud, and so on, Im satisfied it ought to have identified this 
was likely a scam and warned Mr O or stopped further payments altogether.
Ive seen no good reason to think Mr O would not have been honest about why he was 
spending this money  at that point, he still thought he was making genuine investments, 
and the scammers hadnt told him to lie if questioned. Monzo argued that Mr O lied about the 
payments being unauthorised when he reported the matter. Having looked at what was said, 
it seems like he was unsure about what hed paid. In any case, he was completely open 
about the crypto investment nature of the payments. Ive also seen no reason why Mr O 
would not have listened to Monzo  it is a well-known name in banking, hed been with 
Monzo for a significant time, and he accepted he was not a very experienced investor.
Monzo argued that it could not be held liable for the transfers involved because the receiving 
account was in Mr Os name. First, it did not know that at the time. And per the above, even 
if it had identified that the account was in Mr Os name, it should have been on notice about 
crypto scams. Second, Monzo was still obliged to look out for potentially fraudulent 
payments, even if they were going to another account in the customers name. And 
identifying and preventing such scam payments would still have the effect of preventing 
further loss to its customer. So Monzo can still be held liable for a loss that resulted from its 
failure to intervene  which is what Ive found to have most likely been the case here.Monzo claimed that if it was expected to prevent Mr Os payments, then it would have to 
block huge numbers of legitimate payments, too. However, it seems unlikely that huge 
numbers of its customers would regularly drain their accounts of funds via remarkably large 
payments to unconfirmed payees at cryptocurrency platforms, all with complete legitimacy.
Monzo argued it had kept Mr Os account safe because the payments involved were 
authorised. But it also has some responsibility to keep Mr Os account safe from scam 
payments, which are often authorised by nature, as well as a general obligation not to further 
financial crime.
Finally, Monzo argued that our service is not in a position to comment on which payments it 
should intervene with. I will note that our service has a position of objectivity which Monzo 
does not, and is able to see a wide range of practices, trends, and issues from across the 
industry, due to the wide range of cases we deal with. But ultimately, it is in fact our service 
which decides whether Monzo got things right or not  including whether it should have 
intervened or not  in individual complaints such as this one. And Monzo should be familiar 
with our approach by now.
So I find that Monzo bears some liability for Mr Os loss from the £4,000 payment on 
12 August 2021 onwards.
Ive also thought carefully about Mr Os role in what happened. I do understand Mr Os 
reasons for making the payments. But Im afraid I think Mr O ought to have had some 
concerns along the way about what he was being told. And I cant see that he carried out 
reasonable due diligence before paying the scammers. For example, the returns promised 
were concerningly unrealistic, he said hed been swayed by the scammers saying they were 
regulated but he was not a first-time crypto investor and a search of the FCA register would 
have shown that the sites were lying about being regulated, web searches show scam 
warnings and scam reviews about these websites from before Mr Os payments, Mr O had 
not been given any proper paperwork, the scammers refused Mr Os request to meet in 
person to verify things, and the scammers used poor and unprofessional grammar.
So I dont think I can hold Monzo solely responsible for Mr Os losses from the £4,000 
payment onwards. I think Mr O should also bear 50% of the responsibility for those losses. 
Lastly, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to try to recover Mr Os 
money. But as the payments went to his own crypto account, there wasnt anything more Id 
expect Monzo to do there.
Putting things right
I direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund 50% of the scam payments from the £4,000 payment on 12 August 2021 
onwards. Those payments total £16,165, 50% of which is £8,082.50.
For amounts funded from Mr Os savings account: pay interest at the account rate 
from the date each amount debited until the date its returned. For amounts funded from Mr Os current account: add simple interest onto the 
refunded amounts at the rate of 8% simple per year, payable from the date each 
amount debited until the date its returned.
If Monzo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct 
tax from that 8% simple interest, it should tell Mr O how much tax its taken off. It 
should also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. Mr O may be able 
to reclaim the tax from HMRC if he doesnt normally pay tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint in part, and direct Monzo Bank Ltd 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
If Mr O accepts my final decision, Monzo Bank Limited must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we notify it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman