DRN-3586169
The complaint
Mrs M complains that eBay Commerce UK Ltd issued a refund from her account to a buyer 
after theyd raised a dispute.
What happened
In late 2021, Mrs M sold a phone via eBay. A few months later the buyer raised a dispute 
with the financial institution theyd used to pay for the phone. This was upheld in the buyers 
favour. 
eBay arranged for the payment to be refunded to the buyer and charged Mrs M a dispute fee 
of £14. Mrs M complained to eBay who said it doesnt decide the outcome of this sort of 
dispute. It said that it wasnt able to cover the cost of refunding the buyers payment as the 
transaction wasnt eligible under eBays seller protection policy. eBay says it refunded Mrs M 
the dispute fee and fees associated with the sale as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs M remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her complaint. Our investigator 
looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. She thought eBay 
had acted fairly, in accordance with its policies. 
Mrs M disagreed with our investigators view. She said eBay hadnt given her the opportunity 
to put forward her case that the phone was sold exactly as described. She said eBay had 
taken her money without checking that the buyer had returned the phone. She also felt she 
was eligible for eBays seller protection and eBay should have considered her appeal. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The rules that apply to this service say that we can only consider complaints about 
businesses that are authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to carry out certain 
activities, which include regulated activities and payment services. These rules are 
contained in the FCA Handbook (available online) and are known as DISP. The relevant 
section here is DISP 2.3.1R.
eBay as an online marketplace and auction site isnt a regulated financial business, so we 
cant consider complaints about it. But we can consider complaints about certain other eBay 
companies where they are regulated. Here that means we can consider part of Mrs Ms 
complaint against eBay Commerce UK Ltd, where it relates to an activity that it is regulated 
for  this activity being a specific type of payment service.
Mrs Ms complaint is about a dispute the buyer of her phone raised via their payment 
institution. This is something I can look at as an extension of eBays managed payment 
services. So, I can consider the actions of eBay Commerce UK Ltd, so far as Mrs Ms 
complaint arises out of her relationship with it. 
Here eBay Commerce UK Ltd is providing a payment service to Mrs M. It refers to this 
service as Managed Payments and the relevant terms relating to this are contained in 
eBays Payments Terms of Use. These explain that the final outcome of a dispute will be 
decided by the buyers financial institution. They go on to say how eBay will manage the 
dispute: it will notify a managed payments user (here Mrs M) of a dispute and then gather 
any information a customer wishes to provide, before submitting that to the relevant payment 
institution. 
eBay says Mrs M provided information to challenge the buyers dispute the day after it was 
opened, and it had sent this on to the payment institution. Mrs M says she uploaded an 
image of a conversation shed had with the buyer when she sold the phone. She says this 
showed shed made them aware that the screen had been replaced and what the battery 
power was at the time. eBay has provided a copy of this image.
I appreciate Mrs M feels she should have been able to provide more information to explain 
her side of the dispute. However, eBay says that the reason only one document can be 
uploaded is due to the financial institutions policy on uploads, rather than being eBays 
decision. In any event, the image Ive seen confirms what Mrs M has said about the phones 
replacement screen, the company who carried out the repair and the phones battery health. 
So, Im satisfied that eBay gave her the opportunity to provide information she felt was 
relevant to the dispute.
I also understand that Mrs M feels that the outcome of the dispute was unfair. But this 
decision was made by the financial institution who took the payment. So, I cant hold eBay 
responsible for the dispute being upheld.
eBay says that as the buyers financial institution found in the buyers favour it had to refund 
their payment to them. eBays terms say: if the buyers financial institution decides in favor 
of the buyer, the respective amount will be refunded to the buyers original payment method 
and charged to us. You must reimburse us for such charges, unless you are eligible for 
seller protection in which case you are not held liable for amounts refunded to the buyer.
eBays terms set out what it will look for when determining whether to protect a seller in the 
circumstance of a payment dispute because the item doesnt match the listing. eBays 
terms also list eligible scenarios for a transaction to qualify for seller protection. Having 
reviewed this information, I think it was fair of eBay to have concluded that Mrs Ms 
transaction didnt meet its eligibility criteria for seller protection. I say this because Mrs M 
doesnt appear to have refunded any of the buyers payment to them in a way which would 
qualify her for this. Nor have I seen anything to suggest that an eBay Money Back 
Guarantee case for the transaction had already been decided against the buyer, which is 
one of the other criteria that might make a transaction eligible for protection.
Mrs M has commented that eBay didnt check that the buyer had returned the phone before 
refunding their payment. However, this isnt something eBay was required to do under its 
terms of use. I dont think this would have affected things here anyway because the dispute 
had already been determined by the buyers financial institution and seller protection didnt 
apply.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs M, but Im satisfied eBay has acted fairly and 
reasonably, in line with its terms of use. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman