DRN-3600879
The complaint
Miss R is dissatisfied with the way that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, have 
reported the status of her account to credit reference agencies. This is because this action 
has had a detrimental impact on her finances and caused distress and inconvenience.
What happened
In February 2022, Miss R decided to close her First Direct bank account, which had an 
overdraft and a debit balance, and to switch her bank account to another bank. First Direct 
informed Miss R that her bank account couldnt be closed on the day of the switch if it was 
still overdrawn. Also, in that event, the overdraft facility would be withdrawn with any 
outstanding balance requiring payment to avoid recovery procedures.
In the same month, Miss R also signed an agreement with a debt support charity who I shall 
refer to as A, for them to both propose and manage a Debt Management Plan. This plan 
was to include her First Direct debit balance. First Direct and A subsequently agreed a 
repayment schedule and Miss R received communications from A and First Direct about this. 
A sent Miss R a tick box letter indicating that First Direct had accepted an offer with interest 
and charges frozen. First Direct sent Miss R a letter, dated 28 February 2022, which stated a 
repayment plan was now in place with interest and charges frozen. 
In their letter, dated 28 February 2022, First Direct added that the planned payments were 
insufficient to clear the arrears or the unarranged overdraft balance within a reasonable 
timescale and they would therefore follow their normal recovery procedures. In addition, they 
informed Miss R that she would soon receive a default notice or pre-demand letter, followed 
by a final demand letter and, shortly after the demand letter had been issued, a default 
would be recorded on her credit file with credit reference agencies.
Regarding the switching of bank accounts to another bank, when the switching occurred, 
Miss R still had an outstanding debit balance. Therefore, her account could not be closed, 
and a debit balance remained without an arranged overdraft facility. First Direct gave Miss R 
35 days to repay the debit balance.
An issue occurred with the first two Debt Management Plan payments. The automatic 
switching process meant they needed to be paid by cheque or debit card, however as this 
did not occur, they were diverted to the other bank. As Miss R was concerned about these 
two missed credits and, had noticed late payment markers on her credit file, she complained 
to First Direct.
First Direct informed Miss R that they had made a report to credit reference agencies, 
however it was not an error as the report was not made because of the two missed credits 
but was for a different reason. That reason was that her account had a debit balance without 
an arranged overdraft facility that had not been paid within the 35-day time limit they had 
given her.
Miss R complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about First Directs report to the 
credit reference agencies. She believes they made an error as she has a debt repayment 
plan with A. Miss R explained First Directs actions have caused her mental health issues, 
inconvenience and financial detriment - the latter because her car loan application, which 
would have meant lower monthly outgoings, has been declined. 
Our investigator could not see that First Direct had made any errors including reporting to 
credit reference agencies. He therefore did not uphold the complaint. Miss R is dissatisfied 
with the investigators view. This is because she feels he has not taken into account 
evidence that First Direct agreed to the amounts in the Debt Management Plan. Also, that 
First Direct put a late payment marker on 22 May 2022 when she had actually cleared her 
account with them on the 15 May 2022. Miss R added that she felt that the investigator had 
completely disregarded the impact to her mental health of First Direct agreeing to the 
payment plan and then changing their mind at a later date.  
As Miss R remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, I have come to the view that I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator and I therefore do not uphold this complaint. 
I first looked closely at the evidence on file relating to the Debt Management Plan 
agreement. This is because this is fundamental to Miss Rs complaint, as she is of the belief 
that First Direct reneged on this agreement.
It is clear that Miss R gave A full authority to act on her behalf and the tick box letter sent by 
A to Miss R clearly indicates that First Direct did accept an offer, with interest and charges 
frozen. However, although it does not contain any detail of the offer, it refers to it as an offer 
of repayment.
First Directs letter to Miss R, dated 28 February 2022, acknowledges that they received a 
proposal from A and it clearly states a repayment plan was in place, one with no extra 
interest or charges. It is therefore in accordance with As letter. However, critically, it goes on 
to state that the payments were not enough to clear the arrears or the unarranged overdraft 
balance within a reasonable timescale, so we'll still follow our normal recovery procedures. 
Furthermore, it confirms that Miss R would soon receive a default notice or pre-demand 
letter, followed by a final demand letter and, shortly after the demand letter had been issued, 
a default would be recorded on her credit file with credit reference agencies.
So, in summary, a plan was in place and the amounts were agreed, however, this was a 
repayment plan which First Direct viewed as being insufficient. Therefore, the overdraft still 
needed to be repaid. 
There are no other letters relating to A on file that indicate any revised offer was submitted. 
Also, a First Direct letter sent on 6 April 2022 and again on 13 April 2022 repeated that the 
amounts offered were insufficient to repay the overdrawn amount.
It appears that Miss R gained the impression that her debts were all being carefully 
managed and First Direct were happy with the monthly payment amounts. However, Im satisfied that First Direct did not renege on the plan and were very clear the amounts in the 
plan were insufficient and also clear on the actions they would take if the overdraft wasnt 
paid.
This takes me to First Directs referral to the credit reference agencies. I have seen evidence 
that Miss R was advised to pay the overdraft, informed of the necessary actions in the event 
of non-payment, given fair deadlines and, as first Direct thought she was struggling, offered 
assistance and support. Whilst it is unfortunate that there appears to have been confusion 
about the agreement reached with the help of A and switching payment method, Im satisfied 
that First Direct acted correctly in making a report to the Credit Reference Agencies.    
When escalating this complaint to the ombudsman, Miss R refers to a late payment marker 
for 22 May 2022, which Miss R believes is incorrect and led to car finance being declined. 
Whilst I can see that Miss R cleared her First Direct account on the 15 May 2022, and a late 
payment marker on 22 May 2022 would have been incorrect, First Direct deny that they 
reported this to the credit reference agencies. There is no evidence on file that First Direct 
made an incorrect report in May 2022, however earlier in the year they had justifiably made 
a report to credit reference agencies due to Miss Rs account being in arrears for the months 
of February - April 2022. Therefore, whilst it is most unfortunate that Miss Rs car loan was 
declined, there is no evidence to suggest this was due to a First Direct reporting error.
Finally, whilst I can both fully understand and sympathise with the impact that events have 
had on Miss Rs mental health, I have looked to see if First Direct offered appropriate 
support and Im satisfied that they signposted Miss R to help and assistance on a number of 
occasions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman