DRN-3630418
The complaint
F, a business, complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard is holding it 
responsible for card refund payments it didnt make.
What happened
F has a merchant account with Barclays. It disputes a series of card refunds between August 
and October 2021. These happened every few days and the amounts differed. The total was 
£3,650. F says that it didnt process these using the card terminal and that it must have been 
hacked. Its been told all of the refunds went to the same card account and it had no 
connection to this and has been the victim of a scam.
Barclays said it wouldnt be able to help. It had discussed with F creating sales transactions 
to match the refunds. But it thought this was high risk and likely to result in chargebacks. 
Barclaycard said that the terminal couldnt be accessed remotely. And to make a refund a 
supervisors card or code for the machine would be required. These refunds were processed 
manually. Under the terms and conditions of the account F should have prevented anyone 
else having access to the machine to make transactions.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he needed to 
look at whether the actions of Barclays were fair and reasonable. We didnt have a role in 
saying what processes it should follow as we arent the regulator.
F had reported this to Barclays in November 2021. F had rejected any suggestion that a 
member of staff had processed the refunds on site. There had been discussion about 
processing entries to offset the refunds. This was then reviewed by the Barclays risk team. 
And it said that this was something it wasnt going to be able to do due to the risks involved  
even if as here F agreed to bear that risk. 
He appreciated that F said it didnt have a supervisors card. But Barclays had confirmed that 
this would be required. Under the terms and conditions of the agreement (section 10.2) it 
stated that when you receive any new processing equipment you will immediately change 
the default supervisors code used to access that equipment. It is your responsibility to keep 
your supervisors code safe. You will be responsible for any losses you, we, or anyone else 
may suffer as a result of any failure to do so, or for misuse of any supervisors code.
F hadnt provided any information to show that the terminal had been compromised including 
for example any CCTV if available of the terminal at the time of the refunds. It had said it had 
reported the matter to police and Action Fraud.
F didnt agree. It said it had now closed its business due to losses. It hadnt been protected 
by Barclays. And the culprits here have got way with the money which appeared to have 
gone to a card account abroad. F thinks that the law and or terms and conditions should be 
changed to protect other customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that these refunds were out of character for F and didnt match any genuine 
sales transactions. The money all seemed to go to one card account number. Its 
unfortunate that F didnt notice them until it seems it received an account statement showing 
the previous months transactions. And so, the refunds continued and were made at different 
times during often non-consecutive days. But these were persistent and increasing in value 
over time. On any view these werent valid refund transactions.
The information from Barclays is that the refunds were made by manual entry to the terminal 
which would have required supervisor level security information. There is no evidence that 
the machine had been remotely accessed and while F says that some transactions took 
place when the outlet was closed it hasnt shown evidence that these didnt involve the 
terminal itself.
Im afraid the security of the machine and the control around access to it was fairly down to F 
on its own premises. And if an unknown person has been able to access the machine and 
make the refunds Im afraid F is responsible for this.
I appreciate the frustration of F to be told that sales transactions could be made to offset 
these refunds. There was though no guarantee that payments of such a significant amount 
would be authorised to the card involved. And even if these were made in the absence of 
genuine sales these would be subject to chargeback risk. And I can see that given the scale 
of what happened Barclays wasnt prepared to take such a risk. I think that this was 
something it was reasonably able to use its discretion to decide upon.
This service doesnt have a role in setting processes, and I can only look here at what 
happened for this complaint  not if and how others might be affected and what F wants 
done about that. 
I understand the impact of what happened for F which it explains had been a long-standing 
business and never had such problems before. But I havent found a basis to say that 
Barclays has acted unreasonably or made a mistake. And F is as a result responsible for the 
impact of these refunds. If it doesnt accept my decision it remains free to pursue this matter 
in court subject to any relevant time limits. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman