DRN-4003411
The complaint
Mr H says AJ Bell Management Limited (AJ Bell) breached its duty of care towards him by 
failing to facilitate a stock sale within his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) between 
May and August 2022. AJ Bell says third party Retail Service Providers (RSPs) make the 
market for share dealing on its platform, that none of them were prepared to trade the 
relevant stock so the sale Mr H sought could not be executed, and that the terms and 
conditions for its service provide for circumstances (like in Mr Hs case) in which trades may 
not be executed.
What happened
The stock holding Mr H wanted to sell was in China Mobile Limited NPV (CML). The holding 
was bought through, and held in, his AJ Bell SIPP Dealing Account. He says AJ Bell 
facilitated the purchase without any warning at the time or thereafter that there could be 
problems in a subsequent sale.
AJ Bell says the sale was affected by general sanctions the United States had placed 
against some Chinese companies at the time (especially in the telecommunication and 
defence sectors), that its RSPs reacted to this by withdrawing from share deals involving 
such companies and that included the order to sell Mr Hs CML holding. It stresses that it 
made no determination in the matter, but was unable to execute the sale simply because its 
RSPs declined it. Mr H challenged this at the time, and continues to do so, because CML 
shares were being traded in the market. He considered AJ Bells position to be inconsistent 
with that. He also considered that it owed him a duty to make or find a market for the sale.
AJ Bell says it promised to facilitate the sale if the situation changed and offered to assist 
him in transferring to another provider that could help him sell the holding, but first he was to 
be responsible for identifying an alternative provider prepared to receive the transfer and 
achieve the sale. It disagreed with his assertion that this responsibility belonged to AJ Bell.
One of our investigators looked into the case and agreed with AJ Bells position. She 
concluded that the complaint should not be upheld.
The investigator mainly found that the terms for the account confirmed AJ Bell operated as 
agents in conducting an execution only share dealing service; that it was the RSPs 
decisions not to buy the CML holding Mr H wanted to sell, so AJ Bell was not responsible for 
that and had no control or influence in the matter; that the terms for the account also warned 
that there may be circumstances in which trades might not be executed, that AJ Bell was not 
liable in those circumstances and that it would provide reasons where possible (as it did in 
Mr Hs case); and that it was not AJ Bells responsibility to identify an alternative RSP 
prepared to deal in the stock.
Mr H disagreed with this outcome and considered that the investigator had missed the point 
of his complaint. He said the key issues are AJ Bells duty of care and its withdrawal from 
responsibility in the matter  in other words, having been responsible for facilitating his 
purchase of the holding it then avoided responsibility to facilitate its sale. He said this 
conflicts with consumer law protections. He also said his case is comparable to one in which 
a product was bought from Selfridges and then returned (for a refund), but Selfridges 
declines the return because of wider issues related to the products manufacturer and it 
proposes that the product should be returned to another retailer. 
The investigator was not persuaded by the comparison, and she noted that stock purchases 
do not have a refund basis like that in the comparison. Mr H insisted that, as a minimum, AJ 
Bell ought to be duty bound to find him a market maker for the sale. He also argued that 
there was no notice on its website that it was no more than a middleman in share dealings, 
taking commissions and fees whilst avoiding responsibility for anything.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator pointed out, the basis for AJ Bells service was set out in the terms Mr H 
agreed for the account. 
Section 1 of the terms confirms its execution only service, without advice and without 
responsibility for the investment decisions made in the account. The same is repeated in 
other sections of the terms. Section 5 gives a detailed explanation about dealing in the 
account. Section 5.5 confirms AJ Bells role as agent and that account holders are to deal 
directly with third party buyers and sellers (not with AJ Bell). In section 5.16 it reserves its 
right, for any reason, not to execute a trade order, including in circumstances where it is 
unable to.
Mr H was, or ought reasonably to have been, aware of the above terms at the outset of his 
account and thereafter, so I do not accept his suggestion, or argument, about AJ Bell failing 
to declare the basis and limitations of its service. The terms did that.
The RSPs were essentially liquidity providers, who could be considered counterparties of 
last resort. It is common for firms operating the same type of dealing model as AJ Bell to 
have a collection of liquidity providers who they expect to immediately or ultimately make a 
market for the trades placed on their platforms. However, it is also common that neither side 
controls the other, so the liquidity providers can retain their respective discretion on the 
extent to which they are prepared to be market makers for particular or any securities. 
In Mr Hs case, available evidence is that the liquidity providers in place for AJ Bells platform 
and dealing service were not prepared to make a market for the CML shares. The merits (or 
otherwise) of their decision is irrelevant. The complaint is not about them, it is about AJ Bell. 
AJ Bell depended on them for execution of Mr Hs order. That was not unreasonable 
because it was part of the basis for the dealing service it described in the terms and that he 
agreed to. It was neither responsible for their refusal to meet the order nor was it responsible 
to meet the order itself, because it did not provide a counterparty-based service. 
The above factors meant it did not matter that the CML shares continued to trade elsewhere, 
which was a point Mr H made at the time. The situation was different on AJ Bells platform, 
for reasons that were reasonable and had been explained to him. I do not accept that it had 
a responsibility to forewarn him (about the risk of this) at the point of purchase because its 
service did not include responsibility for advice or for investment decisions. I also do not 
accept the Selfridges comparison he has raised. As the investigator said stock purchases do 
not operate with a right to returns and refunds, so the comparison is inapplicable to his case. AJ Bell undertook to re-present the sale for dealing if the situation changed. In the 
meantime, it was prepared to assist in any transfer of the holding (or, it appears, the 
account) that Mr H wanted, in order to sell it elsewhere. This is not disputed. What is 
disputed is the responsibility to identify and arrange a suitable transfer. 
AJ Bell was not responsible for this. In the circumstances, Mr H could either have taken 
independent advice on a suitable transfer or he could have directly undertaken the task of 
identifying a suitable transfer. In both cases, a transfer application would then have started 
the transfer process, and AJ Bell clearly stated it would engage with such a process. 
However, the notion of AJ Bell first advising on a suitable transfer was/is a different matter. If 
that is what Mr H expected, he expected something beyond its execution only service. 
If what he sought was information (not advice) on potential transferees, that would not have 
met his need. General information about alternative SIPP platform providers would have 
been publicly available. Even if such information was shared by AJ Bell that would probably 
not have told him which providers could (and could not) accept the specific transfer and sell 
the specific holding. The need to identify a transfer suitable for his need remained, which 
takes the matter back to one in which advice on such a transfer was needed. Advice that AJ 
Bell was not obliged to give.
Recently, Mr H made additional submissions, mainly criticising the regulatory landscape for 
share dealing. He will be aware that this service is not the industry regulator. My remit is 
limited to determining his complaint only. It does not extend to treating the wider regulatory 
matters that he objects to, so I will not do that. I do not wish to be dismissive of his latest 
submissions, but I consider that I have already addressed (above) the issues and arguments 
relevant to his case. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman