DRN-3375183
Complaint
M, a limited company, complains that Starling Bank Limited didnt pay a refund when it was a 
victim of fraud. M is represented by Mr K (one of Ms directors) and it was Mr K who 
interacted with the fraudsters in this instance. For simplicitys sake, Ive generally referred to 
Mr K throughout this decision.
Background
Mr K on behalf of M had taken out a loan to fund the activities of M. However, the plans Mr K 
had for these funds werent viable because of the lockdown that was imposed at the height 
of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr K wanted to ensure that he maintained a cash-flow for the 
business until that situation changed. He started looking into the possibility of buying 
corporate bonds.
He carried out some research online and this led to him contacting a financial advisor. The 
financial advisor made some suggestions about possible bonds Mr K could buy and put him 
in contact with a broker that would help facilitate any eventual purchase. That broker 
arranged for Mr K to transfer three payments of around £39,000 in total. This was to be used 
to purchase a corporate bond that was due to mature in December 2025. Mr K was told it 
paid an annual return of 11%. Unfortunately, the companies that Mr K had been dealing with 
were neither a financial advisor nor a broker. Instead, Mr K had been communicating with 
scammers. The scammers had set up a clone company  i.e. a company designed to coax 
customers into thinking that theyre dealing with a legitimate, regulated business for the 
purpose of carrying out fraud.
Mr K complained to Starling Bank and asked for a refund, but it rejected his complaint. 
Starling considered it under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code and determined that it didnt need to pay him a refund. It said that Mr K 
had disregarded the warnings that were displayed when he made the payments. They also 
said that he shouldve been much more cautious about the investment opportunity and 
conducted further research before agreeing to make the payment. It considered that he 
didnt have a reasonable basis for believing that the company he transacted with was 
legitimate and this meant it didnt have to pay him a refund under the CRM Code.
Mr K was unhappy with this response from Starling and so he referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator said that the 
warning Starling displayed when Mr K made the payment didnt meet the definition of an 
Effective Warning under the CRM code. In addition, she was satisfied that Mr Ks belief in 
the legitimacy of this investment opportunity was a reasonable one.
Starling disagreed with the Investigators opinion. It said that, in addition to the other 
arguments it had made, Mr K shouldve been concerned by the lack of formal documentation 
when taking out the investment, that there was a subtle difference in the name between the 
legitimate company and the cloned company and that the website of the cloned company 
didnt match that of the legitimate company. 
It also disagreed with the Investigators view about whether its warning was an effective one. 
Because Starling disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a 
final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code sets out 
that, as a starting point, a customer should receive a refund if they fall victim to an APP 
scam such as this one. Theres no dispute here that Mr K was tricked into making the 
payments. He thought he was making the payment as part of an investment in a legitimate 
corporate bond.  But even though he was a victim of a scam, Starling doesnt have to pay 
him a full refund if he failed to meet his requisite level of care under one or more of the 
exceptions set out in the code.
Ive considered its submissions carefully and Im not persuaded that its shown any of the 
exceptions apply here and Ill explain why.
The warning
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance of protecting themselves against being defrauded and 
should include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP 
scams. I dont think the online warning met all these requirements.
On creating a new payee, I understand Mr K wouldve been asked Could this be part of a 
scam? and a suggestion wouldve been made to visit the Starling website for more 
information about how to avoid falling victim to one.  Just before making the payment, 
Starling says Mr K saw the following text:
If youve been contacted on social media about investing in a scheme it is highly 
likely this could be a scam.
Does this investment appear too good to be true? Research this thoroughly, its 
probably a scam.
Have you researched the company to verify their credentials? You can find out how 
to check the FCA register using the link below.Mr K couldve been forgiven for thinking that the warning didnt apply to his circumstances. It 
specifically highlights the risk of being contacted on social media. That wasnt the case for 
Mr K and so I dont think he wouldve attached much significance to the warning. 
In addition to that, the suggestion that he check the FCA register wouldnt have been 
impactful in the context of a cloned firm. Mr K told us that he did check the FCA register and 
found the details of the legitimate firm. I think there was a risk of Mr K taking false 
confidence from seeing that the firm had its details on the FCA register and that the risk of 
fraud must therefore have been low. 
Im also not persuaded that this investment opportunity was too good be true. Mr K had been 
told that he could expect a return of 11% per annum. That is a higher rate than wouldve 
been typical at the time. However, the details of the fake investment look to have been 
chosen to mimic those of a legitimate bond that had been issued - one which did carry a 
coupon rate of 11%. Of course, a coupon rate is not the rate of return that can be expected 
when the bond is purchased on the secondary market, but I am not persuaded that Mr K 
wouldve known this at the time. Furthermore, if hed carried out further research, he 
wouldve likely found legitimate bonds carrying the same a notional rate of return of 11%. I 
dont think hed reasonably have had any concerns that what he was being offered was too 
good to be true. 
Reasonable basis of belief
Under the terms of code, Starling is entitled to say that Mr K didnt meet his requisite level of 
care if it can establish that Mr K made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing 
that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate. Ive considered this point carefully and Im satisfied that Mr K did have a 
reasonable basis for believing that the payments he was making were legitimate ones 
towards an investment.
Mr K found the broker himself after doing some online research and I can see their 
communications with him were professional in tone and quite credible. He wasnt cold-called 
or approached on social media  both common features of investment scams. 
Furthermore, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont find that the return he expected on 
the investment was too good be true. It was a generous return deliberately selected to match 
that of a genuine bond that was available at the time. 
Im not persuaded that Mr K shouldve regarded the lack of a written contract as an obvious 
warning sign. Its increasingly common for financial products to be taken out by customers 
without the need for a formal signature or the issuing of written terms and conditions. 
Mr K was also given access to a trading platform which wouldve made the experience seem 
more authentic. 
Starlings pointed out that there were significant differences between the website of the 
legitimate broker and the cloned firm. However, given that Mr K didnt look at the genuine 
website, he wouldnt have had any reasonable basis of comparison. I think the key 
consideration is whether the contents of the cloned firms website should reasonably have 
put Mr K on notice that he might not be dealing with a legitimate business. Im not persuaded 
that was the case here.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr K made these payments with a reasonable basis for believing 
them connected with a genuine investment. It follows that Starling cant rely on the exception 
described above to decline to pay him a refund.I cant know for certain what Mr K wouldve done with the money if Starling had refunded it to 
him when it considered his claim under the CRM code. But his original intention had been to 
transfer the money to a fixed-rate bond and so I think, on balance, its most likely hed have 
transferred the money to a legitimate bond. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. 
Starling Bank Limited should now pay M:
A refund of the transactions it made in connection with the scam, less the money it 
was able to recover from the receiving bank.
It should add interest to this sum calculated using the average deposit rate for a 
three-year fixed-rate bond as published by the Bank of England. It should apply the 
rate that was applicable at the time M reported the scam until the date it pays a 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman