DRN-4260153
The complaint
Miss G complains about the way in which Lloyds Bank PLC handled her section 75 claim.
What happened
Miss G instructed solicitors to act for her in a court case following a dispute with her 
neighbour. She made four payments to the solicitors, three of which were made using her 
Lloyds credit card.
Miss G says that she received poor service from the solicitors. She says they requested 
monies on account from her and then left her without representation immediately before the 
court hearing.
Miss G raised a section 75 claim with Lloyds, seeking a refund of the total sum shed paid to 
the solicitors.
Lloyds declined the section 75 claim. It said it had received a full response from the solicitors 
and didnt think the charge for services could be disputed. 
Miss G complained to Lloyds. She was unhappy about the outcome of the section 75 claim. 
She was also unhappy with the service provided by Lloyds because she didnt receive call-
backs and she felt the reasons for declining the section 75 claim hadnt been properly 
explained to her.
In its final response, Lloyds said it stood by the decision to decline the section 75 claim. It 
said it was unable to identify a breach of contract on the part of the solicitors because they 
had set out the services they would provide and the cost. In relation to the service complaint, 
Lloyds paid Miss G £100 in recognition of the service she had received when her section 75 
claim was being reviewed.
Miss G remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the solicitors hadnt breached the 
contract or made a misrepresentation to Miss G about the services they would provide.
Miss G didnt agree so Ive been asked to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit. There can only be a valid claim under section 75 if it can be 
shown that the supplier (in this case, the solicitors) acted in breach of contract or 
misrepresented the contract.
The relevant law says that services must be supplied in accordance with the contract and 
must be carried out with reasonable care and skill. Miss G has said that she didnt receive 
the service she contracted for because the solicitors left her without representation at the 
hearing.
Ive reviewed the solicitors terms and conditions, and Ive looked at the correspondence 
from the solicitors which sets out what the solicitors agreed to do, the charging rates and the 
estimated costs. The solicitors provided Miss G with a costs estimate of up to £25,000. 
From my review of the correspondence from the solicitors, Im satisfied that the solicitors 
provide advice to Miss G in connection with the court case. Im unable to say that theres 
been a breach of contract by way of any failure to provide legal advice.
I understand that Miss G feels very strongly about the fact that she was left without 
representation at the court hearing. Shes told this service that the solicitors told her that it 
would cost £700 for them to represent her at the hearing. Miss G said that she became 
confused about what the monies she had paid on account to the solicitors covered and says 
that prior to the court hearing there was £600 credit on account. Miss G also says that she 
knew the cost of representation at the hearing was £700 and acknowledged that the 
solicitors asked her for this sum several times, but she hadnt paid it.
Miss G says that the solicitors advised her by email that they wouldnt be representing her at 
the hearing because she hadnt paid the £700 requested. She says that they emailed her the 
day before a bank holiday weekend, leaving her unable to arrange alternative representation 
at short notice.
Miss G says that she thinks the solicitors breached the contract by giving her such short 
notice that they wouldnt be representing her at the hearing. She says they should have 
given reasonable notice.
Ive carefully considered all of the points that Miss G has made. However, Im unable to say 
that the solicitors acted in breach of contract when they asked Miss G to provide monies on 
account. And because she didnt provide sufficient monies on account, I dont think the 
solicitors acted unreasonably in advising Miss G that they would no longer represent her. In 
relation to the timing of the solicitors ceasing to act, I appreciate that this was shortly before 
ethe court hearing. However, I dont think theres been a breach of contract here. The terms 
and conditions dont specify a minimum notice period and in the context of not having been 
put in funds to represent Miss G at the hearing despite several requests, I dont think the 
solicitors acted unfairly here. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think theres any evidence to show that theres been a 
breach of contract or a misrepresentation. So, Im unable to say that Lloyds acted unfairly 
when it declined the section 75 claim.
I understand that Miss G will have ongoing concerns about the service she received from her 
solicitors. If Miss G has already exhausted the solicitors internal complaints process, she 
may be able to contact The Legal Ombudsman. The Legal Ombudsman is able to deal with 
complaints about things like poor service, fees and loss of documents.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman