DRN-3205194
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) gave him incorrect information
which led to him transferring money which in turn has impacted his credit file.  
What happened
Mr S entered into a Persistent Debt Plan in September 2020 to help him clear his credit 
card debt. He says that the plan is impacting his credit file and stopping him from making 
changes to his mortgage.
It is not in dispute that in December 2020 Barclaycard told Mr S that the plan wasnt 
necessary for him and that he could have transferred £5,000 of the balance to another card 
(Ill call this card Y) and not pay into the plan. Mr S made the transfer but Barclaycard later 
confirmed the Persistent Debt Plan couldnt be cancelled. It apologised and offered Mr S
£100 in compensation. Mr S remained unhappy. He feels hes now in a worse position and 
wouldnt have made the transfer had he known he couldnt come off the plan.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She felt Mr 
S would have acted differently had he been given the correct advice. And because of this, 
she recommended Barclaycard arrange for the £5,000 to be returned and for the plan to be 
restructured. She also recommended Barclaycard reimburse Mr S for any interest or fees 
accrued on the additional £5,000 Mr S borrowed and any transfer fees involved for card Y. 
Barclaycard agreed in principle but didnt feel that it should any interest
charges or fees accrued on the balance transfer amount.
Mr S also wasnt happy with this solution, so the case has been passed over to me to review 
the matter. I issued my provisional findings. I said as follows:
The key issue for me to decide here is whether the Mr S would have acted differently if hed
been given the correct information regarding the cancelling the plan.
Unfortunately, weve not been provided with any call recordings of what was actually
discussed between Mr S and Barclaycard on 2 December 2020. But Barclaycard has
confirmed incorrect information was provided and that Mr S was incorrectly told he could
come off the plan if he made a payment of £5,000.
So Ive carefully thought about what Mr S would have done had the correct information been
provided. And on balance, I think Mr S would have remained on the plan making the monthly
payments. Im satisfied Mr S went away from the calls thinking he wouldnt need to continue
with the plan if he made a balance transfer as his end goal was clearly to have the plan
cancelled.
Following the investigators view Mr S has said he wants the agreement to be ended as he
was told by Barclaycard. But this was incorrect advice given to Mr S at the time so whilst I
appreciate hed like the plan to be cancelled, Barclaycard has confirmed in fact the plan
couldnt be cancelled. It has apologised an offered £100 in compensation. I think that is fair
as far as it goes. However, as Ive stated above, had Barclaycard provided the correct
advice to Mr S Im satisfied hed have remained on the plan that had been set up originally.
He wouldnt have borrowed £5000 on card Y.
Barclaycard doesnt feel it should refund the interest paid on the card Y account from which
Mr S transferred the money to reduce his debt with Barclaycard. It says that by paying this
sum to Barclaycard, it reduced the interest charges that were applied on his balance. But if
Mr S didnt move the money on the incorrect advice he wouldnt have incurred any charges
as Barclaycard confirmed the plan was on zero interest. So because Mr S relied on that
incorrect advice its likely that he incurred charges and interest on the balance transfer itself.
Because of this, I find that it would be fair and reasonable to reimburse him for any loss he is
able to demonstrate that he has incurred.
However this is not a straightforward process as it involves a third party lender. Barclaycard
isnt able to make a settlement directly with this lender. So I agree a reasonable way to put
Mr S back in the position he would be in had the mistake not been made would be to make
the transfer directly to Mr S in order for him to pay it to the card Y lender. Barclaycard will
then need to restructure the plan taking account of the transfer. Mr S should be aware that
his borrowing with Barclaycard will therefore increase by this amount.
Barclaycard should also refund any fees, interest or balance transfer charges Mr S has
incurred on the card Y lending. He will need to provide Barclaycard evidence of such
charges in order for reimbursement to be made. I appreciate that this is not the resolution
that Mr S was seeking, and Mr S can comment further on this provisional decision. But
having considered all the circumstances Im presently satisfied that it is fair.
So my provisional decision was that I was minded to require Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
Arrange for the £5000 to be returned to Mr S then restructure the account to take
            account of this by adding it to the amount owed
Refund any fees, interest or balance transfer charges on the £5,000 incurred by Mr S 
on this sum on card Y
Pay £100 in compensation if it hasnt already been paid on this sum 
Mr S didnt want to receive the £5000 back. He would prefer that Barclaycard re-calculate 
based on his current balance and refund the interest and payments on the balance transfer. 
He felt that the issue was the incorrect advice he was given and he said that Barclaycard not 
ending the agreement was impacting is financial health. He said that he had followed and 
acted on everything he had been advised.
Barclaycard agreed with the decision and agreed to refund any charges or borrowing on the 
additional lending, card Y, on receipt of evidence of what had been paid in the form of copy 
statements. It also agreed to re-structure the re-payment plan based on Mr Ss 
circumstances, but would require him to complete a new income and expenditure 
assessment form.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I do understand that Mr Ss preference would be for the plan to be cancelled, but Im not 
persuaded that this is possible. That Mr S was on a plan in the first place was the subject of 
another complaint. My intention in this decision was to put Mr S in the position he would 
have been in had the incorrect advice not been given. That is, he wouldnt have taken the 
additional borrowing on card Y. Mr S doesnt wish to receive the £5000 back as his 
Barclaycard borrowing would increase by that amount. I do understand that but as has been explained to him he will then remain liable for any ongoing charges on card Y from the date 
of this decision.
I remain persuaded that it would be fair for Barclaycard to repay any charges Mr S has 
incurred to date on receipt of supporting evidence and to restructure his account, when it is 
in receipt of the completed income and expenditure form. This is because his financial 
commitments have changed and of course he will now need to continue repaying the 
borrowing on card Y.
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to:
Refund any fees, interest or balance transfer charges on the £5,000 incurred by Mr S 
on this sum on card Y, to the date of this decision
Restructure Mr Ss debt plan on receipt of a completed income and expenditure form
Pay Mr S £100 compensation if not already paid
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman