DRN-4084235
The complaint
Miss O complained because Metro Bank PLC refused to refund her for transactions which 
she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 3 August 2022, five faster payments debited Miss Os Metro account. They were all to 
the same new payee, and ranged from £990 to £1,990. The total was £8,660.
On 13 August, Miss O contacted Metro. She said she hadnt authorised these transactions. 
Metro asked if shed received any suspicious emails, texts or phone calls, or downloaded 
anything onto her device, and she said she hadnt.
The payee was one Miss O hadnt paid before. So before the first payment went out, Metro 
had sent a one-time passcode to Miss Os registered mobile number, for her to enter the 
code into the app on her phone. Metros computer systems meant that a new payee could 
only have been set up if this code had been correctly entered into the app on Miss Os 
registered mobile. Miss O told Metro that shed never received a one-time passcode. Metro 
asked Miss O to contact her mobile service provider for documentation to confirm this, and 
to provide this to Metro. 
Miss O sent Metro a copy of her phone bill, but not evidence from her phone provider to 
show she hadnt received the one-time passcode. Metro also said Miss O should take her 
phone to a phone shop to check for any malware, and said it would need this evidence 
before it could investigate further.
In Metros final response to Miss Os complaint, it refused to refund her. It said that Miss Os 
phone had been registered since February 2022, with multiple undisputed payments from it. 
Metro said it had sent a one-time passcode to this phone, which was needed to set up any 
new payee. It said that although Miss O had said she didnt receive this, its records 
confirmed it had been sent.
So Metro said there was no clear evidence to suggest that Miss Os account had been 
compromised. It said it was reasonable to assume Miss O authorised the transactions 
herself, or didnt take adequate care of her security details. 
Miss O wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. Among other points, she said that 
Metro bank had been unprofessional and hadnt shown care for her, and hadnt investigated 
this without bias. She believed her account had been hacked via the internet but she hadnt 
downloaded any apps that would have compromised her account. She also said that in one 
letter, Metro had referred to three transactions when there had been five, which she said 
meant Metros checks were probably flawed. She said she felt that Metro had falsely 
accused her and left her very stressed, as well as having to borrow from friends and family.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Os complaint. He said that as Miss O was in possession 
of the phone, and seemed to be the only person who knew how to access it, he was forced 
to conclude that the disputed transactions were either done by her, or someone else with her 
permission.
Miss O asked the investigator to contact her phone provider for evidence that she hadnt 
received a text with a one-time passcode. But the investigator explained that regardless of 
the text, the most important issue was to establish any point of compromise. 
Miss O said again that she wanted the investigator to contact her phone provider. She said 
she hadnt received any messages or texts on her phone that day. She also said the 
transactions were out of character because they were done during the night, and why would 
she be doing transactions at that time. She said that when shed been to a Metro branch, 
theyd told her the money went to the black web, and she asked how she could transfer 
money to the black web which Metro couldnt trace. She said the money was her student 
loan, which she needed to pay back, and it had affected her and her family, as she wasnt 
working.
Miss O asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Miss O feels very strongly about her complaint, and Ive looked carefully to 
see what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
Regulations 
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments 
under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to 
such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
Who authorised the disputed transactions on Miss Os Metro account?
First, I dont think it would be helpful for this service to contact Miss Os phone provider to 
ask whether or not the phone received or sent any texts at that time. Thats because the 
most important point here is how anyone other than Miss O could have authorised the 
transactions. 
But to deal with the text issue, the technical computer evidence shows that Metros systems 
sent the message to the phone which had been registered to Miss Os Metro account some 
months earlier. That phone had been successfully used for undisputed transactions. 
Technically, no new payee on the account could be set up without the one-time code being 
entered, and this happened. So Metros security checks for setting up any new payee were 
fully completed.
The technical evidence also shows the IP address (a unique computer identifier) from which 
the transactions took place. Its the same as the IP address which Miss O had used two days 
earlier to make an undisputed transaction.The transactions were done at night time. That alone isnt a reason for a bank to block them, 
but I recognise that Miss O says she wouldnt have done them at that time of day. Ive 
looked at the timings of logins and transactions on her account for a period around 3 August 
2022. The timings vary, but I can see another login which also took place during the night.
Importantly, Miss O said she still had her phone throughout. The IP address links the 
transactions to a location Miss O had genuinely used just two days earlier. So perhaps 
someone staying in her accommodation might have had access to the phone. But it would 
still count as Miss O having authorised the transactions, if shed given permission, or if shed 
failed to keep her details secure. And as shes said that she used a password, and no-one 
had access to that, it means theres no clear way that anyone else could have carried out the 
transactions.  
Ive also noted that the amounts taken from Miss Os account stopped when her balance had 
reduced to £67.23. There were no later failed transactions. So whoever carried out the five 
large transactions knew that there wasnt enough in the account to attempt any more of the 
same size. This again indicates that they were authorised either by  Miss O herself, or 
someone close to her who knew the balance of the account. 
Finally, Ive considered Miss Os argument that a Metro branch had told her that the 
payments had gone to the black web. Ive seen nothing in Metros notes which indicate 
this, or that Miss O has previously mentioned this. I appreciate that I wasnt present at the 
branch where Mis O said she was told this, but I think this is unlikely. In any case, the exact 
destination of the payments isnt the issue. The issue is  as Ive set out above in the section 
about regulations - whether it was Miss O, or a third party fraudster, who authorised the 
outgoing payments.  Thats what determines the outcome, not where the money went to.  
Having considered all the evidence about the authorisation of the payments, I think its more 
likely than not that Miss O authorised the payments herself, or that someone close to Miss O 
had access to her security information and used that and the phone to make the payments. 
This means that Metro doesnt have to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman