DRN-4113111
The complaint
Ms A complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited when she 
made a claim on her home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Ms A and British Gas. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Ms A had a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas. In April 2022 she had an 
issue with her boiler and contacted British Gas to make a claim against her policy. British 
Gas visited Ms As property on 25 April 2022. A part was needed to repair the boiler. Another 
engineer was sent out the following day - but they werent qualified to carry out the 
necessary repair work. Further appointments on 4 May and 6 May didnt go ahead. It was 
around this time that Ms A says she first noticed water damage (staining) on her ceiling. On 
10 May, the boiler repair was completed. 
Ms A raised a complaint with British Gas about how theyd handled the claim and said their 
delays in carrying out the repair led to further damage. British Gas offered Ms A £50 
compensation because of how theyd handed things, but didnt uphold the main part of the 
complaint. 
Ms A then referred the complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our Investigator 
recommended that the complaint be upheld. She recommended that Ms A obtain three 
quotes for the ceiling repair and cash settle on the lowest of these quotes and increase the 
compensation from £50 to £175. As British Gas didnt agree, the complaint was referred to 
me for a decision.
I sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings recently. As the deadline for 
responses has now passed, Ive now considered the complaint for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Both parties responded to my decision. British Gas increased their cash settlement offer by 
£1,240.00 to £7,440.00. Our Investigator communicated this increased offer to Ms A, but she 
requested a final decision. 
I note that British Gas initially referred to these matters (the damage) being dealt with under 
a public liability policy. But Im satisfied this complaint is one that falls under our Services 
jurisdiction - given that the root cause of the complaint is the initial claim that was made 
under the home emergency contract of insurance. 
Since our Investigators assessment, British Gas responded to say that they now accept 
liability for the ceiling damage caused. I refer to an email dated 4 May 2023:
.our claims team confirms that we have accepted liability for the damage caused
to the ceiling under the cylinder and flooring below.
This is relevant because the ceiling damage is now not in dispute. This means the scope of 
my decision will be limited to what needs to happen to put things right here and Ill be 
considering how British Gas have treated Ms A overall when responding to her claim under 
her home emergency policy. 
Our Investigators recommendation was that Ms A obtain three independent quotes for the 
repair works and British Gas cash settle the lowest of these quotes. Ive noted that Ms A did 
provide our Service with three quotes in early January 2023 and these were shared with 
British Gas but they sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the property and felt the work should 
only cost around £6,200. This was much lower than the cheapest quote Ms A had provided. 
Another email from British Gas to our Service dated 4 May 2023 stated:
Following the visit by the LA, a contractor was appointed as agreed by Ms A 
[redacted by Ombudsman], however, from this point there hasnt been any 
movement following the proposed works to be completed.
I will liaise with the claims team and ask if a cash settlement can be agreed rather 
than the contractor complete the repairs.
Given the time thats passed, it seems likely that the quotes provided by Ms A may no longer 
be relevant  due to inflation and other factors. 
I direct British Gas to either arrange for their own contractors to carry out the repairs - 
subject to Ms As acceptance, or cash settle based on the lowest of the three new quotes 
that Ms A would need to obtain. For completeness - given that the damage may have 
worsened since this claim was made, Id suggest that Ms A asks the three previous quote 
providers to re-visit her property rather than simply adjust the quotes based on the current 
cost of repair materials and labour. 
How have British Gas treated Ms A overall?
Our Investigator recommended that British Gas pay Ms A, a total of £175 to recognise that 
they couldve handled things better. I find that this doesnt go far enough to recognise the 
impact on Ms A. Id also point out that almost five months have passed since the three 
independent quotes Ms A obtained were shared with British Gas. This is five more months 
more that Ms A has had to wait for a resolution to these matters that have been ongoing for 
over 12 months since the claim was first made.  
I find that a total of £300 compensation is fair, reasonable and appropriate here. Id also 
remind British Gas of their obligations under ICOBS 8.1:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress;(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); 
and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Putting things right
British Gas Insurance Limited now need to, (dependant on Ms As preference), either:
arrange for their own contractors to carry out the repairs - subject to Ms As 
acceptance; or 
cash settle the claim, based on the lowest of the three new quotes that Ms A would 
need to obtain.
In addition, pay Ms A, a total of £300 (to include any previous offers made or paid) in 
recognition of any trouble or upset caused by how theyve handled this claim and the service 
provided. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited now need to 
follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman