DRN-3678687
The complaint
Mr O complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited havent paid him the market value 
for his car after he claimed on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O was involved in an accident which he didnt think he was at fault for. He reported the 
accident to Admiral but said he would claim directly off the third partys insurance rather than 
claiming on his own policy. Mr O had his car inspected by an engineer who said it was what 
is known as a total loss. Mr O said he then repaired his car using second-hand parts as he 
needed it while he claimed from the third party. 
Mr O wasnt successful claiming from the third party, so he contacted Admiral to claim on his 
policy. Admiral reviewed the claim and accepted it, however as Mr O had paid to repair his 
car and it had been MOTd twice since, Admiral said it would pay in cash in lieu of repairs. 
Mr O didnt think this was fair and complained, he said he had a total loss marker on his car 
and that if hed claimed on his policy originally Admiral would have paid him the market 
value. He also asked Admiral to cover his storage costs and the cost of getting a report to 
show the total loss marker on his car. 
Admiral reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said as the car had been repaired, it 
would only pay cash in lieu of repairs, as per the policy terms and conditions. Admiral also 
said by paying the market value meant Mr O would be in a better position. However, Admiral 
agreed to cover the £20 Mr O paid for a report on his car but said it wouldnt cover the 
storage costs. Mr O disagreed and referred his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld. They found that Mr 
Os car had been deemed a total loss by an engineer so thought it likely Admiral would have 
done the same if hed claimed on the policy. And in that situation Admiral would have paid 
Mr O the market value, minus the policy excess and the salvage value of his car. Therefore, 
our investigator recommended Admiral pay the market value for Mr Os car, minus the policy 
excess, salvage value for the car and anything Admiral had already paid in cash in lieu of 
repairs. 
Our investigator didnt think it was fair for Admiral to cover the storage charges as it was Mr 
Os choice to put his car into storage and he hadnt told Admiral about that at the time. He 
found that Admiral had confirmed it would have paid to recover the car along with any Covid 
charges and had agreed to cover the £20 for the report  which our investigator thought was 
fair and reasonable to add to the settlement. 
Admiral didnt agree. They said theyd paid for cash in lieu of repairs and so had done what it 
needed to under the policy. Admiral said Mr Os car had since been MOTd twice and so the 
car was clearly roadworthy. Admiral also said that if they paid the market value then it would 
have followed its total loss procedure and cancelled Mr Os policy and recorded a total loss 
marker on the car. Admiral also raised concerns about the repairs and said they would need 
to assess the car to see if it was fit to be on the road as they werent convinced it had been 
repaired correctly. 
As Admiral disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the event of damage being caused to Mr Os car the terms and conditions say:
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either
pay to repair your car, or
pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item. We may 
reduce the settlement, or ask you to contribute towards the 
repair costs, if the parts replaced were already worn or damaged 
or for audio/visual equipment that has been removed from your 
car 
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers 
recommendation
The engineers report on Mr Os car lists the damage and estimate its repair cost to be 
around the market value of the car. In situations like this an insurer would typically deem the 
car not economical to repair and categorise it as a total loss and pay the market value. 
In Mr Os case hes had the car repaired for less than the engineer estimated it would cost to 
repair and said this is because hes used second-hand parts. If Mr O had claimed on his 
policy at the time, Im satisfied that, due to the cost of repairs compared to the value of the 
car, its likely Admiral wouldnt have repaired Mr Os car and instead settled his claim by 
paying him the market value.
As I think its likely this is what Admiral would have done if Mr O had claimed from them in 
the first instance, I think its fair and reasonable that this is how it settles the claim. Ive 
considered that Mr O did have his car repaired and the car has passed MOTs since those 
repairs. However, Mr Os car was repaired using second hand parts and also has a total loss 
marker on it which might impact the value of the vehicle. 
I understand Admiral think this is betterment as Mr O has repaired his car and it has since 
had two MOTs. So, Admiral said it would appear to be roadworthy and repaired to a 
satisfactory standard. While Mr O has repaired his car cheaply, Im unable to see how 
Admiral paying him what it would have done if hed claimed on his policy at the time of the 
accident as betterment. This is because Admiral would only be doing what it would have 
done at the time.
Im therefore satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay Mr O the market 
value for his car at the time of the accident. As Mr O kept the car, it would be fair and 
reasonable for Admiral to deduct what it would have received if it had sold the car to a 
salvage agent. Therefore, its fair and reasonable for Admiral to deduct what it would have 
received for the salvage from the market value. As Mr O claimed on his policy Admiral can 
also deduct the policy excess along with the amount it has already paid for cash in lieu of 
repairs. 
As Mr O didnt initially claim on his policy and didnt tell Admiral about the storage costs, Im 
not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for Admiral to cover those. However, Admiral has said it would cover the recovery costs along with Covid charges and the £20 for the 
report on Mr Os car. Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay these so these 
should also be added to the amount Admiral pays. Admiral should also add 8% simple 
interest per year to the additional amount it pays to compensate Mr O for not having the 
money. This should be calculated from the date Admiral paid cash in lieu of repairs as that is 
when Mr O should have been paid the full amount. 
Ive considered Admirals comments about Mr Os car not being repaired correctly and would 
need to be assessed to see if its satisfied its safe to be back on the road. However, when 
Admiral was justifying that it was fair and reasonable to pay cash in lieu of repairs it pointed 
out Mr Os car has since had two MOTs and is therefore likely roadworthy. Admiral has 
argued Mr Os car is roadworthy and then said its likely not, which clearly contradict each 
other. However, as Admiral has pointed out Mr Os car has been MOTd twice since the 
repairs, I agree it is likely roadworthy as that is the reason for an MOT. So, Im not 
persuaded Admiral would need to re-assess Mr Os car or that this is a reason for me to not 
to reach the outcome I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Mr O the market value of his car at the time of the accident, minus the salvage 
amount it would have received for it, the policy excess and what has already been 
paid for cash in lieu of repairs
Pay the recovery charges and Covid charges
Pay £20 for the report on Mr Os car
Interest of 8% simple per year needs to be added to the additional amount Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited pays, calculated from the date the cash in lieu of repairs 
payment was made until the date it makes payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman