DRN-3501720
The complaint
Mrs B complains National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold a personal loan to her.
What happened
In March 2021 Mrs B took out a loan for £7,500, over 60 months, with a total amount 
repayable of £11,716.20. On 30 April 2021 the first amount of interest was charged. Mrs B 
said this showed interest was front loaded on to the account which shed not been told 
about, and she complained to NatWest.
Front loaded interest means that the total amount of interest due to be charged over the 
term of the agreement is added on at the beginning  as opposed to interest being added on 
a regular basis during the course of the loan.
NatWest said with the amount borrowed, and total amount repayable it meant Mrs B had to 
repay £4,216.20 worth of interest. They said they understood Mrs B was concerned about 
the interest charged on 30 April 2021 of £116.79. They quoted section three of the loan 
terms and conditions which in summary said interest is charged daily on the outstanding 
balance  but only added to the account at the end of each month so its not front loaded as 
she suggested. They said they could see Mrs B discussed the loan with a member of staff, 
but she was under no obligation to go ahead with it. They added loans are provided on a 
non-advised basis. They send out the Consumer Credit Agreement (CCA) which details the 
terms and conditions, and then its up to Mrs B if she takes out the loan. They explained 
there is a 14-day cooling off period, but Mrs B didnt cancel the loan in time for this.
NatWest said they understood Mrs B wanted to settle the loan and got a settlement figure of 
£7,660.13. A payment was made on 4 May 2021, leaving £7,572.13 to pay  and they 
referred to section six of the terms and conditions which they said showed theyd done the 
calculation correctly. NatWest said this settlement figure was valid for 28 days, and as a 
gesture of goodwill, theyd take £100 off the settlement figure  meaning Mrs B only had to 
pay £7,472.13. This was applicable only for 28 days. Overall, NatWest didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong.
Unhappy with this, Mrs B asked us to look into things. Initially, our Investigator upheld the 
complaint, as NatWest didnt provide the call recording where Mrs B took out the loan, nor 
the credit agreement. But, following his outcome, they were able to locate both of these 
documents.
Were required to assess information from both businesses and consumers up to the point a 
final decision is issued, so our Investigator had to reconsider his outcome  the same as he 
would have done if Mrs B had provided more information. Having done so, he didnt uphold 
the complaint, as he felt Mrs B had been told how the loan worked properly when listening to 
the call and looking at the CCA.
Mrs B didnt agree with this. In summary, she didnt agree the interest was being charged 
fairly, said she had cancelled within 14 days of the first interest charge  and she was 
unhappy NatWest wouldnt allow her to pay off the loan. More recently, Mrs B has also 
raised concerns about NatWests debt collection practices too.
Our Investigator explained we couldnt consider the issues Mrs B wanted to raise about 
paying off the loan but asked if she wanted to escalate the matter. Ultimately Mrs B did, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. I say this as Im aware Ive summarised 
Mrs Bs complaint in considerably less detail than she has. If Ive not reflected something 
thats been said its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless I think its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
The crux of the complaint is Mrs B says NatWest have mis-led her about the amount of 
interest shed have to pay both across the term, and if repaying the loan early.
The call
To assess this, Ive firstly listened to the call  in part because regardless of what the terms 
and conditions say, if Mrs B was misled on the call then it may be appropriate to uphold the 
complaint. But, if Mrs B was told the correct information, then Id need to look at what the 
terms and conditions say  and decide whether the interest has been applied in line with 
what Mrs B was told on the phone, and whats written in the terms and conditions.
In the call NatWest do explain the amount of the loan, how much the loan in total will cost, 
along with the APR, the monthly repayments and that the interest isnt front loaded. Mrs B 
asked one question which was around early repayment of a lump sum  the agent explains 
58 days worth of interest would be charged on the amount repaid in those circumstances, 
but thatd still be cheaper than the interest charged if the loan ran its term.
As part of the application, Mrs B is asked to sign on to a portal which shows the terms and 
conditions of the loan. Shes asked to read in her own time everything on the portal, and 
then let the adviser know once shes done that. After reviewing everything, Mrs B then signs 
the agreement.
The agent does say a copy will be sent out to Mrs B in the post. He says Mrs B can shred it 
or keep it for her reference. Im not sure NatWests agents should be saying customers can 
shred their paperwork  I think they likely should be suggesting their customers keep it for 
future reference. But, in any event, a copy was to be sent in the post to Mrs B, and it was her 
choice what to do with it.
Overall, I cant find NatWests agent did anything wrong in how they conducted the call. 
Mrs B was able to sign on and read the terms and conditions in her own time. The one 
question she asked was answered correctly  so Ill move on to the next section.
The terms and conditionsNatWest referred to sections three and six in their response to Mrs B. For brevity purposes 
Ive not quoted them, but in short, they say:
Interest is calculated on the outstanding balance daily and applied at the end of each 
month.
If making overpayments 58 days worth of additional interest will be charged.
This is in line with what Mrs B was told on the phone, and what I expect her to have seen 
when she signed into the portal. So, I dont think I can say shes been misled by this.
Have NatWest applied the interest fairly
Having looked at the payment record, NatWest have applied the interest for the first monthly 
charging period, in one transaction at the end of the month - as they said they would.
I understand Mrs B has said she thinks the interest was front-loaded, but the account history 
doesnt show this  it shows the amount she borrowed of £7,500 being added to the 
balance, some payments coming off, and £116.79 interest being added (as opposed to the 
£4,216.20 total interest which would have been added if interest was front loaded).
I have noted Mrs Bs comments she couldnt afford this  but the loan payment she was 
going to make each month wasnt going to be different from the terms and conditions she 
agreed to. Thats because each month the payment she was due to make would be part of 
the amount she borrowed, and part of the interest charged on that amount.
Each payment would reduce down the overall balance. So, every month, slightly less interest 
would be charged until towards the end of the loan virtually no interest is being charged and 
the majority of each monthly payment is going towards the amount borrowed.
Overall, I cant say NatWest have done anything wrong in how theyve applied the payments.
Other points to address
In response to NatWests comments about the 14-day cooling off period from the start of the 
loan Mrs B isnt happy with this either. She explains from her perspective she didnt know 
about the interest being applied in the way it was until well after the 14 days. The loan was 
taken out 15 March 2021, and the interest was applied 30 April 2021. 
While I understand Mrs Bs point here, Ive already found she was given the right information 
by NatWest about how the interest would be applied. So, I dont uphold her complaint for this 
reason either.
Summary
Taking everything into account I cant fairly say things werent properly explained on the call / 
that Mrs B didnt have the opportunity to question things. The way the interest will be applied 
is set out in the terms and conditions in the same way Mrs B was told about on the phone / 
likely saw when looking at the portal. I cant see that NatWest have applied payments 
incorrectly to Mrs Bs account or that the interest was front-loaded. And Ive not seen any 
other reason to say NatWest have done anything wrong.
Other issues Mrs B has raised I cant address in this complaintI think its key for Mrs B to be aware Ive seen her complaints where she says NatWest didnt 
allow her to pay off her loan earlier when she wanted to  and about their actions when 
trying to collect what they say is the outstanding amount.
For reasons I can see have now been explained to Mrs B, I cant consider those under this 
complaint reference. The complaint brought to our service was about whether the loan had 
been mis-sold or not. And, as Ive concluded above, I dont find that it has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman