DRN-4109257
The complaint
Mr N and Miss N complain about how much esure Insurance Limited offered them for a 
claim they made on their home insurance policy.
esure Insurance Limited, as the underwriter of the insurance contract, is responsible for this 
complaint. 
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
On 14 July 2022, Mr N and Miss N noticed a blocked drain on the pathway. They called a 
local engineer who discovered a collapsed drain under their path. He returned the next day 
to replace the broken drain and carry out repairs.
On 18 July, Mr N and Miss N made a claim on their home insurance policy. esure agreed to 
pay the claim. 
Mr N and Miss N had already had the repair carried out by their own contractor, so they 
wanted the claim to be cash settled. The invoice shared with our service shows the work 
cost £1,860 (including VAT) for the repairs.
esure instructed a surveying agent to review the damage. Following this, they sent esure a 
report which explained the cost to esure for the repair would have been £735.26 including 
VAT. As a result, esure offered Mr N and Miss N £360.26 which was the costed schedule of 
works less their £375 policy excess. 
Miss N wasnt happy with the amount offered and complained to esure. It didnt uphold the 
complaint as it was satisfied its surveying agent had confirmed its limit of liability for the 
claim related damage.
Mr N and Miss N brought their complaint to this service for an independent review. They 
explained they had this fixed on a weekend as they had no toilet and bathroom. 
Our investigator thought esures offer was fair. They explained esure was able to make use 
of builders rates which may be below the market price. 
Miss N disagreed. She said the process has felt one sided with esure being unresponsive 
whilst shes been out of pocket. The toilet was their only one and so a company needed to 
attend urgently to fix it. She feels insurance companies get away with the cheapest possible 
amount as they can get a company to do the repairs for a lower figure due to the amount of 
work the insurer sends to them. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. 
Having done so, I think esures offer of settlement is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why. 
The starting point of any claim made under an insurance policy is the contract between the 
customer and the insurer - the policy document. 
Mr N and Miss Ns policy covers them for repairs to underground pipes providing services to 
and from their home which theyre responsible for and break accidentally. This includes the 
cost of accessing into and repairing any foul water underground pipe between the main 
sewer and their home following the blockage of a pipe and clearing a blocked drain if caused 
by damage to the fabric of the drain.
The policy also sets out the following terms:
ring Us, as soon as possible to prevent further damage and We will register Your 
claim details, and talk You through the next steps
please keep any damaged items for inspection  do not dispose of anything
General conditions that apply when making a claim:
-if You or Your Household do not comply with any part of these conditions, We 
have the right not to pay the claim 
-do not repair any damage without Our consent
I think the policy clearly explains that policyholders shouldnt get repairs done. And most 
home insurance policies contain similar terms. Thats so an insurer has the chance to fully 
assess the nature and scope of the damage before agreeing whether a claim is covered 
and, if so, how it should be settled. 
I understand Mr N and Miss N got the leak fixed as quickly as they could with a contractor 
known to them as this affected the only toilet in their home. However, because the work had 
already been carried out, the full extent of the damage and necessary works wasnt 
apparent. So, getting the repair carried out before esure was contacted and given the 
opportunity to fully assess the works needed, likely cost and arrange for the repairs to be 
carried out, prejudiced esures position. 
Ive then considered the settlement offer itself. The policy terms set out how esure settles 
claims.Where it is possible to rebuild, replace or repair Your Buildings but You do not agree 
with these settlement options, We will pay You cash based on the rebuild, 
replacement or repair cost to Us. 
Insurers often include a similar term in insurance policies and I dont think this is unfair or 
unreasonable. Thats because insurers are often able to make use of supplier discounts to 
get repairs or reinstatement works carried out which arent available to general customers. 
Had it been given the opportunity to carry out the repair in this matter, I consider it likely it 
wouldve done so using the agreed rates. So, esures policy liability is limited to what the 
repairs wouldve cost it to get the work done. esure has provided a detailed scope of works 
setting out what it wouldve cost its supplier to carry out the work. This has been broken 
down by price. Ive compared this directly with Mr N and Miss Ns contractors breakdown of 
their own works. 
I note the cost for the first call out and investigation are the same. Im also satisfied esure 
has included the same items in its scope of works and has costed these in line with the cost 
to it. This means I think its calculated its current settlement fairly and in line with the policy 
terms and so I think its offer to pay £360.26, having deducted the policy excess, is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve the claim.
I recognise Mr N and Miss N will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings 
to an end what we  in trying to resolve their dispute with esure  can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that esures offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Miss N 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman