DRN-2893389
The complaint
Ms W has complained about how Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) dealt with a claim 
under her commercial insurance policy.
  
What happened
Ms Ws tenants found a water leak from a toilet at a rental property she owned. When Ms W 
contacted Fairmead to make a claim, it sent a loss adjuster to assess the damage. This 
showed that the bathroom floor would need to be removed and drying would need to take 
place before the floor could be replaced.
The tenants asked for the work to be delayed until after they had moved out of the property 
when their tenancy ended. However, when Fairmead approached Ms Ws letting agent to 
discuss this potential delay, it was agreed the works would start earlier. Works then started 
on the property, which included strip-out works.
Ms W told Fairmead on a few occasions that she was unhappy with the delays in 
progressing the claim. She also said she wanted to claim for loss of rent under the policy, 
which Fairmead, ultimately, declined.
When Ms W complained to Fairmead, it accepted that there had been some delays during 
the claim. However, it said it wouldnt cover the loss of rent under the terms of the policy 
because the property was habitable, as there was another working bathroom. It offered £250 
compensation for the delays, poor service and the loss of expectation for the rent claim.
Ms W complained to this service. Our investigator said there were delays with the claim, but 
he didnt think Fairmead needed to cover the loss of rent. He said Fairmeads offer of £250 
compensation was reasonable in the circumstances.
As Ms W did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 24 May 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Ive looked at whether there were avoidable delays during this claim. When the claim was 
accepted, based on what Ive seen, the tenants wanted the work to be delayed until their 
tenancy ended, which was about four months away. However, when Fairmead followed up 
on this, it was agreed that the work could start earlier, which was about two months after the 
damage was found.
Fairmead then tried to book in a visit to the property, which they needed to agree with the 
tenant. However, Fairmead was unable to contact the tenants, so agreed a date through the 
letting agent. A date was then agreed for a contractor to visit to carry out the strip-out work. 
Looking at what happened until this point, I think there were difficulties agreeing dates with 
the tenants in order for the work to progress. However, I dont think that was down to the 
actions of Fairmead.
A couple of days after the strip out work took place, another contractor visited and found that 
not everything had been stripped out. From what Ive seen, this was due to a 
misunderstanding between the contractors about what needed to be removed. A contractor 
then visited about two months later to complete the strip out works.
Following this, the property needed to dry, which took about a month. Fairmead then asked 
Ms W about replacement flooring and there was also discussion about the timing of refitting 
the toilet, which Ms W needed to arrange herself. A date was then agreed for when the floor 
would be fitted. However, when the floor was due to be fitted, Fairmead found water 
between the floor insulation and damp-proof membrane. Fairmead wanted to send the 
drying company again. But Ms W visited with her own contractor and said she didnt want 
the drying company to visit, as the floor was dry. She said the floor could be fitted.
Fairmead also followed up with Ms W to confirm the flooring she wanted, as Ms W initially 
chose a floor that had been discontinued. Fairmead fitted the floor and confirmed the work 
was complete apart from some small snagging issues. Some redecoration was also required 
because the walls had been damaged when the skirting board was taken out. Ms W said the 
rubbish hadnt been removed. 
Looking at what happened, I think there were between two and three months of delays that 
were down to Fairmead. Some of this was due to communication issues between the 
contractors, in particular about the stripping out works. I can also see Ms W had to chase for 
rubbish to be removed and that it needed to be clarified why the toilet was removed and who 
was responsible for refitting it. So, I intend to uphold this part of the complaint, as I think the 
claim could have been dealt with more quickly if it had been better managed by Fairmead. 
Fairmead offered £250 compensation for the issues with the claim. In the circumstances, I 
think that was reasonable and I dont intend to require it to pay anything further for those 
issues.
Ive also thought about whether Fairmead should have paid for loss of rent under the terms 
of the policy. The policy booklet said:
Loss of rent or alternative accommodation
During the period the home is made uninhabitable by any cause covered under this section, 
we will at our option pay for either:
i) loss of rent that is no longer payable to you; or
ii) the cost of comparable alternative accommodation for the tenant(s) who occupied the 
home at the time of the incident that gave rise to the damage.
So, Ive thought about whether the property was uninhabitable. The property had two 
bathrooms. My understanding is that the damaged bathroom could be directly accessed by 
anyone in the house, but wasnt useable. The second bathroom was an en-suite that could 
only be accessed through a bedroom.
Its also my understanding that the property was rented out until the tenants who lived in the 
property at the time of the leak moved out when their tenancy expired. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the property was uninhabitable at that point or that the tenants 
moved out on that basis.
Im also aware that Ms W told our investigator that she hadnt attempted to rent out the 
property for some of the time that the works were taking place, as it looked unappealing 
due to items from the works being left in the garden. The property was then rented out for 
about three months towards the end of the works at a reduced rent.So, I havent seen evidence to show that the property was uninhabitable. There was a 
working bathroom at all times during the works, even if that had to be accessed via a 
bedroom, and I dont think a property looking unappealing is the same as it being 
uninhabitable. On that basis, I currently think it was reasonable for Fairmead to decline the 
claim for loss of rent.
I also listened to two phone calls between Ms W and Fairmead in which they discussed a 
potential claim for loss of rent. In the first phone call, the call handler read out the terms and 
conditions of the policy and asked if Ms W had sent Fairmead any documents to support a 
claim. Ms W said she hadnt sent anything in. The call handler provided details, so Ms W 
could do so. Ms W also said she was waiting until the insurance claim was sorted to let the 
property again.
During the second phone call, the call handler said loss of rent was something that could 
potentially be covered, but would need to see documents such as the tenancy agreement. 
Ms W also explained that she had tenants moving in the following week.
Ms W said that during the first phone call she was told the claim for loss of rent would be 
covered. However, having listened to the call, I dont think that was the case. The call 
handler explained Fairmead would need to see evidence to support the claim and provided 
the details of where to send this. I dont think the call handler made any commitment that the 
claim would be covered. Ms W also said it was because of that phone call that she assumed 
her loss of rent would be covered and that she acted accordingly. However, when Ms W 
spoke to Fairmead the second time, she said she had tenants moving in the following week, 
so Im not persuaded that Ms W thought she had no need to arrange tenants due to 
Fairmead committing to paying the rent.
However, Im aware that after Ms Ws new tenant moved in, it was agreed the tenant could 
pay a reduced rent due to the building works still not being finished. The full rent was £1,600. 
It was agreed that the first months rent would be reduced by £500. The tenant then asked 
for a rent reduction for two more months, due to the disruption from the building works. It 
was agreed that the rent would be reduced by £300 for those two months.
Although I dont think this was covered by the loss of rent claim, I think the reduced rent was 
a direct consequence of the works over-running. If it wasnt for the delays, the works should 
have been completed before the tenant moved in. I think Ms W felt obliged to reduce the rent 
and that had the works not been delayed, she wouldnt have needed to do so. So, I currently 
intend to say that Fairmead should pay Ms W £1,100 to cover the cost of the reduced rent, 
made up of £500 for the first month and £300 for each of the next two months.
As part of this, I should be clear that Im aware the tenant seemed to have a total rent 
reduction of £1,400. However, I dont think Fairmead should pay for all of this. From what 
Ive seen, the tenant paid the full rent amount for the first three months. In the first month, 
£500 was then credited back to him. In the fourth month, which is the month the tenant 
moved out of the property, he paid £700 in rent, as he had deducted £900 from his rent 
payment. The letting agent later said he thought this was because the tenant was taking 
account of a discount of £300 per month for the first three months to compensate him for the 
works that continued throughout that period. However, Ive only seen an agreement that the 
rent would be reduced by £300 for two months. The tenant had also already received a £500 
discount for the first month. So, I dont think Fairmead needs to pay the additional £300. 
Even if the £300 was actually deducted for the fourth month, I havent seen evidence that 
this was agreed or that the building works justified this reduction. I think any issue around 
this is for Ms W, the letting agent and the tenant to resolve and isnt a matter for Fairmead.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 June 2021
Ms W accepted the decision, but said she would have further points to raise if the decision 
changed.
Fairmead explained the policy wording around loss of rent where a property was 
uninhabitable. It said that if a landlord chose to reduce the rent to cover their losses, this 
wasnt covered by the policy.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my previous decision to uphold this complaint in 
part and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered 
Fairmeads comments about the rent reduction, but this hasnt changed my view. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that I didnt think Fairmead needed to make a 
payment under the loss of rent part of the policy. Fairmead needs to make a payment to 
compensate Ms W for her financial loss that was a direct result of the works over-running. 
The consequence of the works over-running was that Ms W had to reduce the tenants rent. 
So, the payment is to put Ms W back in the position she would have been had the works not 
over-run. In the circumstances, I remain of the view that is a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint.
  
Putting things right
Fairmead should pay Ms W £1,100 for the reduced rent to put her back in the position she 
would have been if the works hadnt over-run.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld in part. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Pay Ms W £1,100 for the reduced rent while the works were ongoing.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman