DRN-3713204
The complaint
Mr C complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc trading as Zenith Insurance (Zenith) 
handled his claim after his car was hit by a third party. 
What happened
Below is a summary of what happened and doesnt therefore include a full timeline or list of 
every point that has been made. 
Mr C has motor insurance policy with Zenith Insurance. Whilst Mr Cs car was parked 
outside his vet a lorry driver reversed into the front of his car. 
Mr C obtained the drivers details at the scene and reported the incident to his insurer the 
same day. Mr C was understandably shocked and upset that his vehicle had been 
significantly damaged. During the course of the conversation Mr C explained what had 
happened and was told the incident was ultimately likely to be recorded as non-fault but it 
was dependant on the third-party insurer. The call handler said the incident would initially be 
opened as a fault claim. Mr C objected to this but was told it was normal practice in the 
insurance industry.   
Zenith told Mr C he could pursue the claim through his underwriter which would mean he 
may need to pay an insurance excess. Or he could pursue the claim through another 
company, approved by Zenith, to handle the hire car and deal with any repairs. Mr C chose 
to deal with the matter through the other company. 
The car was deemed to be uneconomical to repair and Mr C received a settlement from the 
third-party insurer who accepted liability for the accident. Mr C says the incident was still 
recorded as a fault claim and so he had to contact Zenith and ask it to amend the details. Mr 
C says Zenith didnt do this for some time despite being told by him and the third-party 
insurer that the claim had been settled. 
Mr C says Zenith eventually amended the incident and allowed his no claims discount but he 
wasnt happy with how he was treated or how long the matter took to deal with. And so he 
complained to Zenith. 
Zenith said it thought the matter had been resolved since the incident was recorded as non-
fault, no payments were recorded, and Mr Cs no claims discount had been allowed. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the response from Zenith and so brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator said she didnt think Zenith needed to take any action since it had 
acted fairly and in accordance with the policy. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the investigators view and so this matter has been passed to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr C. 
Its important to explain my role here is to look at whether Zenith acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner, and within the terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the 
claim. I am not able to look at the actions of the third-party insurer or broker. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
I know Mr C has said he feels Zenith treated him unfairly on purpose. I am sorry he feels this 
way but I havent seen anything that persuades me this is the case. 
I have listened to the call Mr C made to the insurer to notify it of the incident. In the call the 
call handler explains that initially it would be recorded as a fault claim. And that once any 
money is recovered from the third-party insurer the matter would be amended to non-fault. 
I can see this incident and its consequences have had a significant impact on Mr C. I can 
understand why when the claim was recorded as a fault claim it would have shocked and 
upset Mr C since the incident wasnt Mr Cs fault. But generally claims are initially recorded 
as fault claims until they are resolved and any monies paid out are recovered. So whilst I 
understand Mr C is upset by this its standard practice by insurers and I dont think Zenith has 
done anything wrong here. 
When Mr C contacted Zenith to report the incident it presented Mr C with two options; one 
was for another company to arrange a hire car and deal with the repairs to Mr Cs vehicle. 
The other option was to claim via the underwriter meaning a policy excess would apply 
depending on whether the third party accepted fault. Mr C chose for the other company to 
deal with the hire car and repairs under a credit agreement. And so Zenith had no further 
involvement in the claim handling.
Since Mr C chose not to go through his underwriter Zenith wasnt involved in any hire car 
arrangements or repairs. And so any issues Mr C had regarding these would need to be 
referred to the company who dealt with them. I am unable to hold Zenith responsible here. 
The third-party insurer accepted fault and settled the claim. When Zenith were advised of 
this on 28 March 2022 it amended its records and wrote to Mr C on 4 April 2022 to confirm 
this. The claim was closed accordingly. And this is what I would have expected Zenith to do. 
I understand that Mr C is very unhappy with this matter. And that is understandable since it 
relates to Mr Cs car which clearly meant a lot to him and I do empathise with the position he 
has found himself in. But this doesnt mean Zenith has done anything wrong. 
For the reasons I have outlined I think Zenith have acted fairly in how its handled Mr Cs 
claim. Therefore I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman