DRN-3677531
The complaint
Mr U complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money he didnt 
receive from a cash machine.
What happened
Mr U says he tried to withdraw £250 on 3 November 2021 from a cash machine at a petrol 
station. He says that he didnt receive any money but has been debited. He also tried to 
withdraw £240 but this was refused. He was able to withdraw £240 from his joint account. Mr 
U is unhappy that Halifax hasnt refunded him and hasnt completed a full investigation and 
obtained CCTV.
Halifax said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said it had approached the third-party 
operator of the cash machine. And it provided a log showing that the withdrawal was 
successful and that there were no discrepancies when the machine balanced to account for 
the dispute. It had told Mr U that he would have needed to provide evidence to show his card 
had been compromised.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the 
information provided showed that the money had been dispensed. Mr U had then made 
unsuccessful attempts to take out £240. These were declined because he had already taken 
out £20 earlier that day and there was a maximum £500 daily limit for the account. He then 
tried to take out money with his joint account card. The PIN was incorrectly entered on the 
first occasion and a second attempt was successful. She said that the technical record was 
persuasive evidence. She added that there was no guarantee that the CCTV evidence would 
have shown the cash machine withdrawal. And we made our decisions based on the 
information that was available.
Mr U didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the CCTV should 
have been checked and that others mightnt have received their cash either. He provided 
articles about how a device can be attached to a machine by a fraudster. And as he didnt 
get the money and it had been dispensed there must have been fraud. He doesnt think that 
he was responsible for obtaining the CCTV and he was suspicious that no one had used the 
machine after him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. We 
provide informal dispute resolution.
I note from Mr Us complaint form that he said he tried to obtain CCTV himself, but he was 
told by the petrol station that only Halifax or the police could request this. I also can see hes 
provided a reference number for his report to Action Fraud. Im afraid its a matter for Halifax 
to decide how to investigate a complaint and I need to base my decision on the evidence 
that is available. I think it could have been more straightforward with Mr U that it hadnt 
intended to obtain this CCTV. But I also wouldnt expect it to carry out any criminal 
investigation  that would be a matter for the relevant authorities.
Our investigator has already pointed out that theres no guarantee CCTV was available in 
any event and would have shown this transaction clearly. CCTV also only tends to be kept 
for a relatively short period and I see no prospect of this being available now.
Halifax doesnt own the cash machine used for the disputed transaction. So, it asked the 
operator for details to show this transaction and that the machine balanced. It also asked the 
operator to confirm that the machine was working. And Ive seen that the operator did this 
and also confirmed that there was no evidence of a third-party device being fitted to the 
ATM. I agree with Mr U that had there been a device it would have been likely that a number 
of similar claims to his would be made.
I have the transaction log of what happened at the relevant cash machine at this location 
and Im going to analyse that. I know that there was another machine directly adjacent to this 
one. Wed typically expect to see the journal entries before and after the disputed one which 
I have seen. And Ill give the order of entry of Mr Us transactions on 3 November 2021 (in 
HH:MM:SS (where available)):
17:16:49 - Mr U requests £250 - the entry shows this being dispensed. There is no error 
message for example that there are no £10 notes which he had at one point told Halifax 
there was.
17:18:23 - Mr U requests £240 from the machine - there is an error message refer to card 
issuer. As set out above the reason was that hed already taken out £270 that day and this 
would take him over the £500 daily limit. 
17:18 (seconds not available) - Mr U inserts the joint account card to this machine and 
requests £240. He inputs the incorrect PIN and the request is declined.
17:19 - Mr U tries again with the joint account card, and he receives £240. 
I also note from the audit of use of his sole account card provided by Halifax that between 
the requests for £250 and £240 from this machine above he requested £240 at 17:17:51 
from a different machine and which was declined for the same reason. He also requested 
£240 again at 17:19:59 from a different machine and again this was declined.
Analysis
Mr U describes being upset that day due to a significant personal loss and having to take out 
money unexpectedly. This was in an area which he describes as being of high crime and he 
says that it was dark and raining. Mr U refers to a male near to him when he made the 
request for £250 who also told him that there were no £10 notes in the machine. He says in 
his complaint form that this person was I now believe perhaps trying to distract me.
After the £250 entry above he didnt make another attempt at any withdrawal for just over a 
minute. He didnt return to try and use this original cash machine for a longer period than 
that. But within three minutes of the first withdrawal hed successfully used this machine to 
take out money from the joint account. Thats the evidence that this machine was working 
after the disputed withdrawal, and it seems unlikely to me that a device was in place and 
removed within that period. 
Mr Us actions though are consistent with him not having the £250. He says that he thought that the withdrawal limit was £250 and always intended to take out £250 from the joint 
account too as he needed £500. He then attempted withdrawals of £240 which are 
consistent with him thinking that there were no £10 notes in the machines. And as his last 
attempt to take out money from his sole account came a second before 17:20 and it seems 
after the successful withdrawal from the joint account he was still trying to obtain that 
element of the money.
So, I dont have reason to doubt that Mr Us bought this complaint in good faith and I note 
what he says about not making any similar claims before. But based on the evidence I find it 
most likely that the £250 was correctly dispensed and there was no device on the machine. 
Given what Ive said I dont rule out him being either distracted by someone who took his 
money after it was dispensed or even mistaken about the sequence of events. But Im afraid 
that wouldnt be a basis for me to uphold his complaint against Halifax. I appreciate Mr U will 
be very disappointed by my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman