DRN-3552655
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made errors with his buy to let mortgage 
accounts which caused difficulties with his tenants and resulted in adverse data on his credit 
files. He asks that this is put right and for an apology and compensation that reflects what 
hes been through.
What happened
Mr B has three buy to let mortgages with Barclays. He moved home in early 2021 and asked 
Barclays to change his correspondence address. It failed to do so, and instead sent letters to 
the buy to let properties. Barclays also allocated payments between Mr Bs mortgage 
accounts incorrectly and then recorded a missed payment on Mr Bs credit file. 
Mr B says this resulted in tenants at one property being concerned that he was in financial 
difficulty and they might lose their home. Hes worried theyll move out. Mr B says another 
tenant refused a rent increase after opening a letter and seeing the monthly mortgage 
payment. And the adverse data on his credit file meant he was unable to take out a home 
improvement loan for his new home, delaying the work he wants to do.
Mr B says its taken far too much of his time trying to sort matters out, and caused him stress 
and anxiety. He says Barclays didnt deal with his complaint fairly.
Barclays agreed it made errors. It said it had corrected Mr Bs credit file and his 
correspondence address. It asked an internal team to review the data breach. Barclays 
offered £650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr B and £500 for 
the data breach.  
Our investigator said Barclays offer of compensation was fair.
Mr B didnt agree. He said his file with one of the credit reference agencies still showed the 
missed payment. Mr B said the compensation offered was an insult given what hed been 
through. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts it made errors. It failed to update Mr Bs correspondence address correctly 
and sent letters to the buy to let properties for several months, including after hed raised a 
complaint. And it allocated a payment to the wrong account and recorded a missed payment 
on Mr Bs credit file.
Barclays says it corrected the payments made to Mr Bs mortgage account and what it had 
reported to the credit reference agencies. However, Mr B said a missed payment is still 
being reported by one of the credit reference agencies. Mr B provided a copy of his report 
from one of the credit reference agencies and this does show a missed payment for April 
2021 for one of his mortgage accounts with Barclays. His other accounts are shown as up to 
date.
Mr B says one of his tenants might move out due to concerns about his financial situation 
after a letter was sent to the property suggesting hed missed a payment. And another tenant 
hasnt agreed to a rent increase after discovering how much his monthly mortgage payments 
are. Mr Bs tenants only know about these matters due to Barclays sending letters to the 
property in error. Leaving aside whether the tenants ought to have opened the letters (which 
werent addressed to them), I dont think I can fairly find that any decisions the tenants might 
make to move out or decline a rent increase are only because of the letters. 
Similarly, Mr B hasnt provided evidence that the only or even the main reason he couldnt 
access a loan for improvements to his home was due to the missed payment on his credit 
file. I do understand it can be difficult to provide evidence of this. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly find that Mr B has financial loss due 
to Barclays errors.
Theres no doubt though that this caused Mr B inconvenience, upset and embarrassment 
and its right that Barclays pays compensation for that. 
I can understand Mr B would have been embarrassed by his tenants seeing information 
about his mortgages, and especially the incorrect suggestion hed missed a payment. Hes 
had to spend additional time collecting letters from and dealing with his tenants, as well as 
contacting Barclays. 
Although Mr B hasnt provided evidence that the missed payment on his credit file caused 
him to be declined credit, I can appreciate that he was worried about this. I think it took 
Barclays longer to put matters right than it should have done. The problem with letters going 
to the wrong address recurred after Barclays said it was fixed. By mid-2022, Barclays still 
hadnt fully corrected Mr Bs credit files, despite saying it would do this. Mr B says he wants 
to apply for credit and this is holding matters up.
Taking all this into account, I think the compensation offered (£1,150) is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. I think this fairly takes into account Mr Bs worry and embarrassment, 
as well as the inconvenience and time hes spent sorting out the problem and the length of 
time this has gone on for.
Mr B says Barclays didnt respond fairly to his complaint. Complaint handling isnt itself a 
regulated activity, which means we cant look into it. I can look into how a complaint was 
dealt with if this impacted on sorting out the underlying problem  here the incorrectly 
addressed letters and adverse data on Mr Bs credit file. I dont think that was the case, 
although I agree that it took too long for Barclays to sort these matters out even after he 
raised a complaint. However, as Ive said, I think the compensation offered is fair and 
reasonable even when taking this into account.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. I dont have the powers of a regulator and I 
cant fine Barclays. If Mr B remains concerned about the data breach he can consider raising 
his concerns with ICO. 
Putting things right
As well as paying the compensation it offered, Barclays should take steps promptly to 
correct Mr Bs credit file to remove the missed payment recorded for April 2021. My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
update Mr Bs credit files to remove the missed payment recorded for April 2021
pay £1,150 to Mr B as it offered to do. It can deduct any amounts already paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman