DRN-3468998
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim under her sofa warranty.
What happened
Mrs M bought a sofa that was covered by five-year warranty with Great Lakes. In August 
2021, she made a claim under the warranty because there was an area of peeling leather 
and she believed the seat structure had collapsed on one side.
Great Lakes arranged for the sofa to be inspected by one of its technicians who submitted a 
report stating the sofa was performing correctly with no faults or defects and the peeling 
leather was the result of wear and tear over time. So Great Lakes declined the claim. 
Mrs M complained to Great Lakes but when she didnt receive a satisfactory response, she 
complained to this service. She explained there were structural defects to her sofa and that 
she disagreed with the outcome of her claim, submitting photographs in support of her 
complaint. She believes the frame is distorted due to the failure of the rigidity of the metal 
frame and that the following sections of the warranty apply:
- defects to frame caused by breakage or becoming warped;
- bending and breakage of metal components;
- lifting or peeling of the hide on leather frame;
- loss of resilience of form fibre interiors.
Great Lakes didnt issue its final response until after Mrs M had brought her complaint to this 
service. It stated that for a claim to be considered under the structural defects section of the 
warranty, there must be evidence of actual defects with the materials used or the 
workmanship involved with the manufacture of the furniture, which its technician had 
confirmed werent present. It explained the location of the settlement was in areas of high 
use, which was consistent with it being due to wear and tear
Our investigator was satisfied Great Lakes decision to decline the claim was in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. She noted it had produced an inspection report which 
confirmed there were no faults and the damage was a result of wear and tear and she 
commented that in the absence of any evidence to contradict this, she thought the decision 
to decline the claim was fair. But she added that if Mrs M could provide her own report then 
Great Lakes would have to consider it.
Mrs M was unhappy with the outcome of her complaint. Our investigator explained hed 
relied on the terms and conditions of the policy and the report produced by Great Lakes 
expert and she was concerned hed failed to act impartially. Shes asked for her complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M told Great Lakes technician there was an area of peeling leather on the right-hand 
front corner of the seat and the interior of the seat had sunk/collapsed. The technician 
reported that the seat interior had natural settlement and the area of peeling was a result of 
wear and tear. He noted after checking that all springs are intact and none loose, I 
explained that the seat interior is natural settlement. The [left hand front seat] of the two 
seats is brand new and not been used or position rotated. No manufacturer faults found. He 
concluded I have inspected the issues and found that they are not manufacturing related 
and have explained my findings in full to the customer. They do not accept my explanation.
Based on its technicians report, Great Lakes said the peeling leather on the corner of the 
right-hand seat was a result of wear and tear, which is excluded under the policy. Ive 
carefully considered the photographs Mrs M has submitted along with the inspection report. I 
understand Mrs M feels wear and tear of this nature shouldnt have happened in the 
relatively short time shes owned the sofa but in the absence of any evidence that the 
problem was caused by an insured event   as Great Lakes explained, for the structural 
defects section of the policy to apply there would need to be evidence of an actual defect 
with the material or the workmanship  Im satisfied Great Lakes decision to apply the 
exclusion was fair.
The second element of the claim relates to an area of the seat which Mrs M believes has 
collapsed, perhaps because of a failure of the rigidity of the metal frame. I have carefully 
considered the photographs and I can see the area that Mrs M is concerned about, but Im 
not satisfied theres any evidence that an insured event has occurred. Great Lakes 
technician said there are no manufacturing faults or defects and that there is natural 
settlement as this is an area of high use. I think this conclusion is reasonable and, in the 
absence of any evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied the decision to decline the claim was 
fair.
My final decision
I understand Mrs M will be disappointed but, for the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman