DRN-3279709
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc failed to give clear information about break costs 
in respect of a fixed rate loan (Loan 2) taken out in 2011.
To resolve his complaint, he would like Clydesdale to put him in the position he would have 
been in if Loan 2 had been on a variable rate from the outset.
What happened
In January 2011 Mr S and his parents were trading as a partnership (the partnership). 
Following discussions with Clydesdale, the partnership took out a loan fixed for 20 years 
(Loan 1). 
Some months later, Mr Ss parents wanted to retire from the partnership, and Mr S wanted to 
continue the business as a sole trader. There were further discussions with Clydesdale, after 
which Mr S took out a new loan in his sole name (Loan 2).
Mr S used Loan 2 to repay Loan 1. Loan 2 was fixed for 19 years and 7 months (broadly the 
remaining term of Loan 1). Clydesdale did not charge a break cost when Loan 1 was repaid.
In 2019, Mr S complained that Clydesdale should not have sold Loan 1 or Loan 2. Briefly, he 
said that if Clydesdale had told him how expensive it might be to break the fixed rate loans 
early, he and his family would have taken both loans on a variable rate basis instead.
Clydesdale said:
It accepts that it should have given the partnership more information about break 
costs before January 2011. Had it done so, it believes the partnership would have 
fixed Loan 1 for 5 years rather than 20 years. It therefore offered to put the 
partnership in the position it would have been in now if Loan 1 had been fixed for only 
5 years. It made clear that its offer in that regard was to all the partners in the 
partnership, not to Mr S alone.
It believes Mr S as a sole trader would still have taken over the partnerships 
borrowing in mid 2011  but if Loan 1 had been fixed for a shorter term, then Loan 2 
would also have been fixed for a shorter term. It offered to pay compensation to Mr S 
with the aim of putting him in the position he would be in now if Loan 2 had been on a 
variable rate from January 2016.
Mr S and his representatives did not accept Clydesdales offer, and referred the matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining why I could not consider a 
complaint about Loan 1. In respect of Loan 2, I said:
[Its] clear that Mr Ss intention in mid 2011 was simply to take over all the assets 
and liabilities of the partnership. Clydesdale did not (and was not asked to) give 
advice about the most suitable loan for Mr S in mid 2011. It merely facilitated what 
was in effect Mr Ss takeover of Loan 1. That was what Mr S wanted at the time, and 
I cant see that Clydesdale did anything wrong in allowing it.
I appreciate that Mr S considers that the partnership should have had a variable rate 
loan in early 2011, and that if Clydesdale had treated the partnership fairly in early 
2011 then he would have taken over that variable rate loan some months later. But I 
couldnt address that argument without looking at a complaint about Loan 1, which 
isnt something I have the power to do.
Looking only at the issue I have the power to consider  the sale of Loan 2 to Mr S  
I am not persuaded that Clydesdale has done anything wrong.
However, in determining a complaint I am required to take into account all the 
circumstances. Here, those circumstance include the fact that Clydesdale says it did 
make a mistake in respect of Loan 1, and that its mistake had an impact on Loan 2. It 
says that if everything had happened as it should, the partnerships Loan 1 would 
have been fixed for 5 years rather than 20 years. 
Clydesdale has made an offer to Mr S with the aim of putting him in the position he 
would have been in if Loan 1 had been fixed for 5 years from outset, and Loan 2 had 
been fixed for the remainder of Loan 1s term. Clydesdale has confirmed that it 
intends to keep its offer open until after the Financial Ombudsman Service has 
looked at the matter. 
In the overall circumstances, and taking into account Clydesdales offer, I think the 
fairest outcome to this complaint is for me to order Clydesdale to pay Mr S the 
amount it has already offered to him in respect of the sale of Loan 2.
To be clear, I am not saying that Clydesdale is right in concluding that the partnership 
would have taken a 5 year fix in January 2011  nor am I saying that Mr S is wrong to 
conclude that the partnership would not have fixed its borrowing at all. For the 
reasons Ive given, I cannot make any findings about Clydesdales treatment of the 
partnership in January 2011. But in these very unusual circumstances, I think it is fair 
for me to make an award of the amount Clydesdale has already offered. So, unless 
either party provides further evidence or arguments that persuade me to change my 
mind, I intend to say that Clydesdales offer represents a fair outcome to this 
complaint.
Mr Ss representatives did not provide any further evidence or arguments, but they reminded 
me that Clydesdale had promised to keep its offer open until after the Financial Ombudsman 
Service had considered the matter. They invited me to make an award for the payments 
Mr S made between 1 November 2019 and the date of my final decision.
Clydesdale accepted my provisional findings. It added:
In terms of the redress calculation, the Bank can confirm that the previous 
calculation for loan 2 will be brought up to date, should the customer accept it. This 
would consist of including any additional amounts paid, comparing the payments 
made against had loan 2 been fixed until 26 January 2016 and then reverted to a 
variable rate loan. With interest added to any overpayments at a rate of 8% per year 
simple
Please note that the LIBOR reference rate no longer exists and as such for any 
payments made post its cessation on 31 December 2021 we will calculate any additional redress against the Bank of England Base Rate. In addition, should the 
customer wish to accept the offer we will also engage with them to update the facility 
documentation to ensure that the resultant variable rate loan can be referenced 
against base rate. This may take slightly longer than usual given this recent change 
but we wanted to ensure you were aware of this at this stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision, for the same reasons. I note that Clydesdale has agreed to amend its offer slightly 
to take account of Mr Ss subsequent payments towards his loan, and I am satisfied that its 
amendments are fair.
Putting things right
Clydesdale should pay Mr S the amount it has already offered in respect of Loan 2, with 
amendments to reflect the payments he has made since that offer was made.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plcs updated offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. I order it to make payment to Mr S in accordance with that 
offer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman