DRN-2850613
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc trading as Abbey National, (Abbey), mis-
sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Abby sold the MPPI to Mr F during a meeting in 2007, at the same time as he applied for a 
mortgage. The policy started later that year when the mortgage commenced. The premiums 
for the insurance were payable monthly and, after an initial three-month premium-free 
period, they started at about £14 a month. Following a successful claim, the policy would 
have paid out about £225 a month for up for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. As Mr F 
disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance 
on our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, but Ive decided not to uphold 
his complaint. I explain why below.
Mr F says that Abbey told him that it was in his best interests if he took out the MPPI 
and certain other insurance. And that failure to do so would result in the mortgage 
being declined. Ive no reason to doubt that this is Mr Fs recollection now of what took 
place during the meeting. But, because it was several years ago, I dont think its 
reasonable and fair for me to rely solely on his memory. 
On balance, I think that Mr F knew that the MPPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it out, I say this because:
Ive seen the record of the discussion carried out with Mr F by Abbey. This shows that 
he told them that, amongst other things, he had no plans, policies, or deposit-based 
savings or investments. And that he would be unable to pay his monthly mortgage 
and related bills if he was unable to work through accident sickness or involuntary 
unemployment. And that he would like to protect these payments. 
Ive also seen a copy of a note of Mr Fs insurance needs and Abbeys 
recommendations, discussed at the meeting. This repeats his inability to meet his 
mortgage and related bills, as mentioned above, and says that Mr F told Abbey the 
amount he would need to cover these outgoings in such circumstances. The note also 
says that Abbey recommended that Mr F took out the MPPI to cover the outgoings, 
and that Mr F accepted the recommendation. 
Further, Ive seen Mr Fs mortgage offer. This says that the only insurance that he 
needs to have as a condition of the mortgage is buildings insurance. (Although it does 
suggest that he thinks about whether he could still pay his mortgage if he lost his job 
or illness prevented him working. (My italics))
Its possible that Mr F may have taken something Abbey said during the meeting as a 
representation that he wouldnt get his loan if he failed to take out the MPPI. But, 
because of the time that has passed, the only record of what was said at the meeting 
that I have seen are the documents to which Ive referred. These dont show anything 
that I find could have had that effect;
Abbey recommended Mr F to take out the policy. This meant that it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for him. 
I find that the policy was suitable for Mr F. I say this because, knowing what I 
do about his circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
oMr F was eligible for the policy;
oMr F wasnt adversely affected by any of the policys main restrictions and 
limitations - such as those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical 
condition;
oThe policy was competitively priced by reference to other policies available in the 
market at the time. And it offered a reasonable benefit; 
oI havent seen anything to suggest that Mr F couldnt afford the MMPI when he 
took it out. In any event, because it was paid for monthly, had Mr F later thought 
that he couldnt afford the MPPI, or no longer wanted it, he could have cancelled 
it at any time without further cost;
oMr F may have been entitled to some sick pay from his employment for up to 
three months. But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out 
in addition to this, leaving these payments available to meet his other outgoings 
while he wasnt working. And the insurance also covered involuntary 
unemployment and provided for payments to be made for up to 12 months. So I 
find that the policy could have been of use to Mr F. I say this particularly bearing 
in mind the serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr F been unable 
to make his mortgage repayments, which were secured on his home;Abbey also had to give Mr F clear, fair and not-misleading information about the 
MPPI so that he could make an informed decision whether he wanted to take the 
insurance or not, in the light of his circumstances at the time. Its possible that, 
during the sales meeting. Abbey didnt tell Mr F everything that it ought to have 
about the policy. But, as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for him, I think that 
he would still have taken it had Abbey given him clearer information. This means 
that Mr F hasnt lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with 
Abbeys sales process. So theres nothing I require Abbey to put right.
As Ive said, Ive thought about everything Mr F has told us, including that, following his 
complaint to it, Abbey initially told him that it had no details of having sold him MPPI. But, as 
it later found the details of his policy and dealt Mr Fs complaint, I find this has no bearing on 
my decision So this and Mr Fs other comments dont change my decision.
My final decision
For my above reasons, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman