DRN-3307056
The complaint
Miss S complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc treated her when she withheld a service 
charge from her local authority. 
What happened 
Miss S has a mortgage and secured loan with HSBC. On 21 October 2020, Miss Ss Council 
wrote to HSBC saying that she owed £347 and if that sum wasnt paid within 10 days that it 
intended starting legal proceedings against Miss S. HSBC wrote to Miss S on 9 November 
2020 requiring her to contact the Council to pay the arrears claimed or otherwise resolve the 
matter. The letter mentioned that the bank may pay the sum due on her behalf and add the 
sum to the mortgage debt or seek to enforce its security. 
On 17 November Miss S replied outlining her dispute with the Council and that after 
receiving a threatening letter from the Council she had paid the £347 under protest.
HSBC then asked for any documents related to her dispute with the Council. Miss S asked 
HSBC why it was involved in her dispute with the Council and what right it had to repossess 
her property for non-payment of service charges. On 25 November 2020 Miss S raised this 
as a complaint with HSBC. Miss S forwarded a summary with documentation of the issues 
she had with the Council to HSBC on 25 December 2020.
HSBC sent Miss S a holding letter in respect of her complaint on 19 January 2021 and on 26 
January HSBC responded setting out the sections of the mortgage terms relevant to the 
responsibility of the customer for the service charge and the lenders rights against the 
customer. It agreed that it hadnt dealt with Miss Ss enquiries appropriately but said that the 
banks position was that nothing further would happen with Miss Ss mortgage account and if 
they were contacted by the Council that the bank was aware of Miss Ss position. Because 
HSBC hadnt responded to Miss Ss questions it paid compensation of £100. On 29 May 
2021 Miss S asked for documentary evidence to back up HSBCs references in its earlier 
email and these were sent on 2 June 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as HSBC was 
entitled to write its letter of 9 November 2020 in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
Miss S disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has a lease with her local authority which requires her to pay charges to it. Leases 
normally include forfeiture clauses so that if the terms of the lease arent being kept the 
lessor can look to have the lease forfeited. HSBC has a security interest in Miss Ss property 
which could be threatened if the Council looked to forfeit the lease. For that reason HSBCs 
mortgage terms and conditions says that the borrower should pay all charges and comply 
with all obligations under a lease and if the customer fails to do so the lender can pay off the 
charge or seek to enforce its security. Those would be terms common to any mortgage 
agreement
The background is that Miss S has a dispute with her local authority and had been 
withholding paying a service charge. That of course is a matter between her and the local 
authority. But it became a problem for HSBC when the Council wrote to it in October 2020. 
That letter told HSBC that by failing to pay the £347, Miss S was in breach of her lease and if 
it didnt receive this money within 10 days that it would take action against the borrower.
From HSBCs point of view, it was being told that there was a breach of the terms of the 
lease and forfeiture was a possibility. It responded to the Council on 9 November 2020 
wherein it raised a number of issues with the object it said of making reasonable enquiries to 
establish that the Councils claim was legitimate. It asked the Council to provide information 
and documents related to that. It also wrote to Miss S. That letter asked her to contact the 
Council to pay the arears or if the amount was in dispute to contact the bank and provide 
correspondence related to the dispute. The letter then continued to say that if Miss S failed 
to make the payments that are due  HSBC could make the payments on her behalf and 
add these to the mortgage debt or enforce its security through repossession proceedings.
I can see that any letter that refers to the possibility of repossession proceedings would be 
unpleasant for any borrower and unwelcome for Miss S who was trying to get a proper 
service from her Council for the money it was asking her to pay. On the other hand, I 
consider it fair that HSBC point out the possible outcomes if the service charge issue 
remained unresolved. We would expect a lender to provide information to a customer so that 
the customer is forewarned and fully informed. 
At the same time HSBC was writing to the Council challenging its legal right to take 
proceedings against Miss S which would affect its security. That strikes me as an even 
handed and appropriate response by HSBC. The letter of 9 November 2020 is not 
supportive of the Councils actions but raises a number of pertinent queries challenging the 
Councils right to proceed against Miss S. It doesnt support Miss Ss suggestion that there 
may have been some collusion between HSBC and her local authority. I note that Miss S 
has provided substantial correspondence in support of her belief which I have read and 
considered but the evidence such as the letter of 9 November simply doesnt support her 
view. I also dont consider it unreasonable that HSBC having been asked to pay the service 
charge by the Council enquired from the Council whether it was paid.
My role is to decide whether HSBC did anything wrong. Ive read all Miss Ss comments and 
can see and understand that she feels very strongly about the matter. But the evidence does 
not support her view that there was collusion between the council and HSBC to force her to 
pay the service charge. The fact that HSBC pointed out the possible future actions it may 
take in response to the demand from the Council doesnt in my view amount to bullying as 
Miss S suggests or unfair pressure on her. There was certainly some delay in the bank 
responding to Miss Ss queries and in the production of supporting documentation and in the 
circumstances compensation of £100 seems appropriate. As HSBC already made this offer 
to Miss S, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
Miss S also complains that new information came to light on 3 June 2021 which she 
complained separately about to HSBC on 4 June 2021, but the bank declined to deal with it 
as a separate complaint in its own right. But that later complaint is clearly related to the initial 
complaint as it arises out of correspondence between HSBC and Miss S in relation to this 
complaint and I have considered it in the context of this complaint. So, I would not expect 
HSBC to open a separate complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman