DRN-3637222
The complaint
Ms B has complained about the way Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) has treated 
her as a customer. Ms B says D&G mis-sold her a policy and declined her claim. She says 
the service D&G has provided has been very poor throughout. 
What happened
Ms B took out a protection policy for her cooker in February 2022. A month later Ms B says 
she discovered an issue with her cooker. She said she tried to ignite two of the hobs, and 
they wouldnt work, plus it was throwing out an escape of gas. So, she attempted to call 
D&G.
Ms B says she couldnt contact D&G. So, she contacted an independent engineer who shed 
used before to fix an electrical issue with her cooker. 
Ms B then submitted a claim to D&G. But whilst D&G were validating the claim, it discovered 
that the cooker insured on the policy wasnt the cooker Ms B had in her home. So, D&G 
declined the claim. 
Ms B complained and said shed been mis-sold the policy. She said D&G rang her and sold 
her the policy. She insisted that shes been above board and had given the correct 
information about the cooker. Ms B was unhappy that D&G had declined her claim and 
hadnt accepted the engineers report she had submitted. She said D&G were 
unprofessional and rude and she wanted D&G to provide a replacement cooker. 
D&G reviewed the complaint and partially upheld it. D&G say the policy should never have 
been sold to Ms B. It acknowledged that the service provided was poor and it apologised.   
D&G said Ms Bs engineers report had been acknowledged but the cooker was so old it 
would never have been covered. It offered Ms B £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Ms B remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
reviewed the complaint and said the policy was mis-sold. The investigator suggested that 
D&G replace the cooker.
D&G acknowledged the mis-sale but it wasnt happy to replace the cooker. D&G requested 
an opportunity to repair the cooker instead. It said, if on inspection a repair was achievable, it 
would cover the cost. Our investigator reviewed this again and said that she was unable to 
verify the engineers report submitted by Ms B. As such, she thought the fairest outcome 
was to let D&G inspect the cooker. 
Both parties agreed and the cooker was inspected. An engineer provided a report that said 
that the gas safety checks were all passed, but that the oven was faulty and unrepairable. 
The engineer didnt mention the issue with the hob. 
At this point D&G sent Ms B internet links for her to choose a new cooker. However, this was 
an error, and D&G soon confirmed to us that it wouldnt be replacing the cooker based on 
the most recent engineers report. D&G offered Ms B a further £50 to compensate for the 
error and loss of expectation. 
But Ms B remained unhappy and asked for us to review the complaint again. Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint and said what D&G was doing was unfair. The 
investigator suggested that D&G should now replace the cooker and pay a further £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused. 
D&G disagreed, and this complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint on 6 September 2022. That provisional decision is 
below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im planning on partially upholding it. Ill explain why.
I appreciate a lot has happened since the final response issued by D&G. Ive written to D&G 
and Ive advised that in the interest of coming to a fair and reasonable resolution, I will be 
dealing with everything that has happened to date in this provisional decision. 
Ive listened to the sales call and I agree D&G mis-sold this policy. Ms B didnt know how old 
the cooker was and she told D&G this. There was even confusion over what make and 
model it was. But D&G put it on cover anyway. 
Ms B had started paying premiums and thought cover was in place when she claimed. 
However, Im conscious that Ms B had only paid at most, two instalments when she 
attempted to claim. Im also conscious that D&G acknowledged its error in mis-selling the 
policy and offered £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Our approach in a mis-sale situation like this one would be to refund whatever premium had 
been paid, plus 8% from date of sale, and compensate for the impact of the mis-sale, 
including any distress or inconvenience. Im satisfied given the circumstances, whereby 
there was no cover in place when D&G first sold the policy, and Ms B said she had no 
intention of buying cover for her cooker until she was sold this policy, that this is the right 
approach here. Im satisfied that £100 for the inconvenience caused probably covers the 
returned premium, interest and compensation.
However, since we issued our first view on this complaint a number of errors have occurred. 
Following a view from one of our investigators D&G offered to inspect the cooker and it 
suggested it would repair the cooker as a gesture of goodwill. However, the engineer who 
inspected the cooker didnt actually comment on the part of the cooker that had failed. I 
appreciate this was frustrating for Ms B, but given the photographs provided I can see the 
oven cavity box is in a poor state of repair. So, I can see why the engineer wrote the cooker 
off based on this evidence and he didnt need to comment on the hob. I know Ms B says her 
oven was fine. But I think looking at the report alongside the photographs Im inclined to give 
more weight to what the engineer has said. Ms B may still have been using her oven. She 
says she just hadnt cleaned it, and it had corroded and depreciated with time. But the 
engineer said it wasnt safe to use, and he is the expert. So, I dont think D&G did anything 
wrong here by taking on board his findings. 
However, D&G did then make an error. Ms B was asked to choose a suitable replacement 
cooker. I appreciate D&G realised its mistake, it addressed the error, and it paid Ms B £50 for any distress caused. But it did this only after this service intervened. And in the context of 
what had gone on before, I think this error was a significant one. Ms B thought she was 
getting her claim paid, and this caused Ms B a lot of distress when she realised she wasnt 
getting a new cooker. 
This leads me onto the service provided by D&G throughout the claim. Im conscious that 
neither party helped matters during the duration of this complaint. Both parties dug their 
heels in and this caused tension, and there are a lot of very tense call recordings between 
both Ms B and D&G. Ive listened to a sample of these calls. I agree the sales call was poor. 
The agent in question was very loose with the details, and I dont think Ms B did anything 
wrong during this call. 
Ms B says she was pestered by calls from D&G. But D&G says this is not true. D&G has 
provided evidence to show the calls made to Ms B. And looking at this I wouldnt agree they 
were excessive. I can tell by the sales call in particular Ms B wants the policies spoken 
about. So, Im not inclined to agree she was bullied or pestered. 
But I do agree some of the calls about the claim were tense. In one call I listened to, Ms B 
had two calls going at once to separate departments in D&G, as she says she was afraid to 
hang up as it took so long to talk to anyone who would help her. For me D&G lost control of 
the situation, and instead if allocating someone to deal with her issue, I felt D&G were happy 
to push the issue around. This is not good customer service. 
However, Ms B also has to take some responsibility here too. She continually called D&G 
without giving it time to address her issues. Further to this there was difficulty verifying the 
report submitted by Ms B, and Ms B has never really addressed this. 
So, I agree D&Gs sales process wasnt followed and it did mis-sell the policy. D&G did 
allude to paying the claim, and then led Ms B to believe she was getting a new cooker. I 
know Ms B will be very disappointed by this, but I think D&G dealt with the mis-sale 
correctly. So, Im not going to recommend that D&G repairs or replaces the cooker. Further 
to this, the photographs and engineers report would suggest that even if I did think D&G 
should reconsider the claim, this claim would not be covered under the policy terms and 
conditions. Even though Ms B disagrees, the photos and engineers report carry a greater 
weight, so I wont be asking D&G to do anything further in this respect.
But I do think D&G made a number of errors and it does need to pay some further 
compensation for the distress this caused. So, taking a holistic approach to everything that 
has happened Im thinking of recommending that D&G pays Ms B a further £200 in 
compensation, on top of any other monies it has already paid (£150, so in total £350). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 19 May 2022 as set out above.
D&G responded and had nothing further to add. 
Ms B responded with a number of calls and emails, and shes expressed her dissatisfaction 
with the provisional decision. Firstly, I would like to acknowledge Ms Bs responses. I can see that Ms B is clearly very 
upset by what has happened. But a number of the points she raises are points that she has 
already raised and as such I wont be dealing with them again. I agree that the policy was 
mis-sold to Ms B and I agree that D&G told her she would be getting a new cooker. But that 
doesnt mean Im now going to insist that D&G replaces Ms Bs cooker. We have a set 
approach to mis-sale and the £100 compensation paid by D&G to Ms B for this error is fair. 
Since my provisional decision Ms B has spoken to another independent gas appliance 
installer. It told Ms B that the parts she requires are obsolete, and Ms B says that D&G 
shouldve told her this from the beginning. I appreciate Ms Bs frustration with this. But as 
weve deemed the policy as mis-sold, this information wouldnt have made any difference 
and doesnt impact the mis-sale in any way. 
Ms B has also asked us to listen to a further call she had with D&G in July 2022. Ms B says 
that in this call she was told she was getting a new cooker and D&G tried to reinstate the 
policies shes cancelled. 
We dont have a copy of this call. Its a call that was made after the final response was 
issued. But I dont disbelieve Ms B. Its clear D&G made an error and had recorded on its 
system that Ms B was to get a replacement cooker. So, Im not surprised she was told she 
was getting a new cooker. But Ive already dealt with this. Ive recommended D&G pay Ms B 
a higher amount of compensation to reflect this specific error and the loss of expectation 
caused by telling Ms B she was going to get a new cooker. And on reflection and taking into 
account this additional information I still think a further £200 is a fair amount of compensation 
for this error.
I know Ms B is going to be disappointed with this outcome. She wants the new cooker she 
was told she was getting. But even though D&G said she was getting a new cooker; this was 
an error and the additional compensation I recommended in my provisional decision is a fair 
reflection of D&Gs failings in this regard. D&G has dealt with the mis-sale appropriately and 
acknowledged its errors. As such I see no reason to depart from my findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Please note, Ms B says she hasnt cashed the cheque she received for £50. If this cheque 
needs to be reissued, D&G need to now do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding this complaint in part against Domestic & 
General Insurance Plc as set out above. I require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
Pay Ms B a further £200 (£350 in total) for the inconvenience caused by the errors it 
made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman