DRN-2929106
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited unfairly declined his claim for income 
protection.
What happened
Mr S worked as an HGV driver. He had access to a group income protection policy through 
his employer and, in 2019 following a fall at work where he hurt his back, made a claim on it. 
Aviva declined that claim. It said the available medical evidence indicated that Mr S was 
unable to perform his own role, but it didnt indicate that he could not work in a suited 
occupation which was also a requirement of the policy, so his claim wasnt eligible for cover.
Mr S complained. Aviva reviewed what had happened and in doing so identified information 
on Mr Ss social media which it did not think was in keeping with his claim. So, it arranged an 
independent medical examination (IME). 
That IME took place and the appointed Consultant found that Mr S was not fit for work: either 
in his own role or a suited occupation. But that changed when the same Consultant had sight 
of the information from Mr Ss social media account, and they concluded Mr S was actually 
suitable for work in both his own role and a suited occupation. So Aviva maintained its 
decline of the claim.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator acknowledged Mr S had clearly 
been suffering with back pain. But they said the available evidence didnt demonstrate that 
he was unable to work in line with the policy terms, and so it was not unreasonable of Aviva 
to have declined his claim.
Mr S disagreed and said that a number of doctors had signed him off work. He said he was 
still unable to work, had ongoing problems with his back, and the policy provided cover for 
injury and sickness. And as Mr S asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman, his 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not be upholding this complaint for largely the same reasons as the investigator before 
me. While I have summarised events above in less detail than they have been presented, if I 
have not mentioned or do not go on to mention something, it is not because I have ignored 
it. It is because I do not consider it central to the outcome of this complaint.
Aviva will be aware that it has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, and 
it must not reject them unreasonably.   
The group income protection policy in this complaint was designed to provide its members 
with a benefit in the event of incapacity. It specifically defined what was meant by 
incapacity, and that was:
The members inability to perform on a full or part time basis the duties of his or her job role 
and other occupations for which they are suited by reason of education, training or 
experience, as a result of their injury.
So, as our investigator rightly indicated, it wouldnt be enough for the evidence to 
demonstrate that Mr S was suffering with his back. It would need to demonstrate that he was 
unable to work in both his own role, as an HGV driver, and any other suited role because of 
his injury. 
Mr S has said that the medical evidence in this complaint shows that he was unable to work 
as a result of his back. I agree with this in part and although I wont refer to every piece of 
evidence available, I do note he had undergone investigations into his back problems. I also 
note that he had been signed off work by his GP, had been prescribed pain medication and 
referred for physiotherapy, and a medical report said he would continue to experience back 
pain. Mr S was also found to be unfit for the substantial duties of both his current role or an 
alternative role due to persistent back pain following his IME.
Based on the evidence it had available to it at the time, some of which I have referenced 
above, Aviva initially accepted Mr S would be unable to perform his role as an HGV driver. 
However, Mr Ss inability to work did not just need to apply to his role as an HGV driver. It 
needed to apply to his inability to perform any other occupation for which he was reasonably 
suited too. 
Both parties are aware that Aviva received updated findings from the IMEs Consultant which 
said Mr S was able to work in both his own role and a suited occupation. 
Having reviewed Mr Ss social media, the Consultant said some of the information on it was 
unexpected and demonstrated aspects of his ability that were far beyond their expectations. 
They explained that if Mr S had advised them of the activities that were shown on his social 
media at the time of the IME, they would have reached a different outcome, and within their 
supplementary report said:
There is a substantial difference in the information presented by [Mr S] and the further 
information presented by the insurer the difference in the information is to the extent that it 
alters my assessment and opinion, both on his driving capacity and his mobility.
I now believe that he is fit to return to work as an HGV, taxi or bus driver. He could therefore 
work as a delivery driver of small parcels. I believe that he could do so on at least a half-time 
basis.
Mr S provided Aviva with commentary surrounding the wider context of some of his social 
media activity, and it is apparent that he remains unhappy with its use. But while I appreciate 
his feelings about the use of his social media activity, I must bear in mind the most recent 
comments and findings of the IMEs Consultant in relation to it. 
My role here is not to provide a medical opinion on Mr Ss ability or inability to work. It is to 
decide whether, based on all the available evidence and arguments, Aviva acted both fairly 
and reasonably in declining his claim. 
Mr S was clearly suffering with his back and I empathise with the difficulties he has told this 
service he still experiences with it. But I dont think the available evidence in this complaint 
does demonstrate that he was unable to work in both his own role, as an HGV driver, and 
any other suited role because of his injury. And so in view of the policy terms he needed to satisfy, I cannot conclude that Aviva unfairly or unreasonably declined his claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman