DRN-3085155
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt send her the monthly statements for her 
credit card. She says this led to interest being charged.
Mrs L is represented by her daughter, Miss L
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs L used her credit card to make a purchase for £5,996. The following 
day a £4,000 payment was made, reducing the balance to £1,996. Mrs L had a monthly 
direct debit set up to take the minimum payment, and as per the terms and conditions, 
interest was charged each month on the outstanding balance.
In June 2021, Mrs L complained she hadnt been receiving monthly statements. Mrs L says 
this has resulted in her paying unnecessary interest since October 2019. She says had she 
received statements, she would have been aware there was an outstanding balance to be 
repaid.
Barclays accepted it had stopped sending Mrs L paper statements in error. To apologise, it 
credited her account with £50 and refunded the £22 interest for June 2021 (whilst it was 
investigating the complaint). Mrs Ls daughter, Miss L, settled the remaining balance.
Miss L remained unhappy, so she contacted our service. One of our investigators thought 
the complaint should be upheld. She was persuaded that Mrs L was reliant on her credit 
card statements and had these been received the balance would have been repaid. Our 
investigator thought Mrs L should be reimbursed the interest she was charged between 
December 2019 and May 2021; and compensated a further £50. Because Barclays 
disagreed, the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs L made a relatively significant purchase on her credit card. In my opinion, it follows she 
ought reasonably to have been aware that the payment she made the following day hadnt 
cleared the balance.
Furthermore, if Mrs L was relying on paper statements (rather than checking her account 
online), she ought reasonably to have contacted Barclays to ask why a statement hadnt 
been received. Particularly, as she ought reasonably to have known she had made a 
significant purchase which hadnt yet been repaid. 
Mrs L was also making a monthly direct debit payment every month, to her credit card. In my 
view, she ought reasonably to have questioned this monthly payment, if she understood she 
had no outstanding balance. I accept Mrs L may not have reviewed her bank account every 
month, however, monthly direct debit payments were being taken for a significant period 
before the matter was raised with Barclays.
I cant reasonably hold Barclays responsible for Mrs L not settling her credit card balance, or 
for her not raising the lack of paper statements. Im also satisfied Barclays charged interest 
on the outstanding balance as it was entitled to do so.
So, in the circumstances, Im persuaded that Barclays £50 compensation and £22 refund is 
a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Barclays hasnt responded. Miss L made the following points:
- The account in question wasnt originally with Barclays, but it took over the provider. 
Mrs L already had a Barclays credit card, so then having two Barclays credit card 
accounts caused her confusion. 
- The account in question was originally on-line only, but Mrs L had switched to paper 
statements. Barclays has admitted it made an error when it stopped sending paper 
statements for the account. 
- Mrs L was still receiving paper statements for her other Barclays account. She rarely 
used the account in question, which is why only receiving a statement for the other 
account didnt flag up.
- Mrs L is in her eighties, doesnt have IT skills, and was suffering a bereavement. She 
should have been able to rely on Barclays to send her the statements. She relied on 
paper statements to remind her of outstanding amounts.
- Barclays had been sending statements by email. Barclays has a duty of care to its 
vulnerable customers and it should have contacted Mrs L to check why the emails 
had bounced back.
- As soon as Barclays mistake was identified, the outstanding balance was paid in full, 
at the first opportunity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mrs L was relying on paper statements, and there was confusion caused by having 
two Barclays credit card accounts. However, overall, its still my view that I cant reasonably 
hold Barclays responsible for Mrs L not being aware, or for having forgotten, she hadnt yet 
repaid such a relatively large purchase.
Having considered Miss Ls further comments, I still consider the £50 compensation and £22 
refund to be a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs L, and Miss L. But for the reasons Ive set out above and in my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman