DRN-3607393
The complaint
Mr R says the process Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) followed 
when it gave him advice not to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension to a personal plan 
had several failings. He says this stymied his objective to transfer his benefits and led to him 
incurring excessive costs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had given consideration to their retirement plans. When they were informed 
about the value of a DB scheme Mr R was a deferred member of, they decided it would be 
best in their circumstances to transfer the funds. They told us:
We would expect to spend more money in the early years of our retirement than the latter 
years and we feel that having an additional £50k to spend in these years will increase our 
choices and quality of life, making our retirement more productive and enjoyable.
HL says Mr R initiated a transfer of his DB funds to it on 3 November 2020. It received 
notification from his scheme provider on 15 December 2020, including the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV). Mr R subsequently contacted HL on 21 December 2020 to discuss 
charges for transfer advice. 
HL says Mr R made contact again on 8 January 2021 to confirm he wished to proceed with 
transferring his DB funds. It told him the advice process took around 8-10 weeks and so it 
was likely hed need to obtain an updated quote because his existing CETV was due to 
expire on 27 February 2021.
HL says on 20 April 2021 it discussed a fact-find Mr R had completed to understand his 
circumstances and objectives. This was followed-up by another meeting on 14 May 2021 
during which its adviser noted the CETV represented poor value for money. It contacted Mr 
R on 4th June 2021 to make him aware of its recommendation not to transfer. This was 
followed up with a suitability report on 9th June 2021 setting out its analysis and rationale in 
the following terms:
Your objectives of spending £60,000 a year between you in retirement can be met without 
transferring this pension. You could potentially have secure pensions that combine to give 
you £37,000 a year before tax or £34,400 after tax with your rental income providing the 
discretionary income you want. You have sufficient cash savings and other sources of 
capital such as your SIPPs to give you the money you would need if you want to buy a new 
caravan or a narrow boat
As it is not necessary to transfer this pension to meet your objectives, the question of 
whether transferring this DB pension is in your best interest relies on the value for money 
you are being offered. The analysis we have conducted is that the transfer value of £53,145 
is only 47% of the £112,157 cost of a comparable level of income from an insurer. Based 
upon the discussions we have had, there does not appear to be a strong reason why it 
would be in your best interests to give up half of the value of this pension.
When the pension is put into the perspective of the other assets you hold, £53,145 is 
around 2.5% of your total wealth of around £2.2 million when you include property, savings 
and SIPPs. The income it could provide of £2,616 per annum represents around 7% of your 
combined secure pension incomes. As you plan to sell properties through your retirement, 
the secure income this could provide, while a small part of your income now, could allow you 
to have more confidence when selling a property and then spending the capital realised.
You have no clear strategy in respect of these funds and therefore feel unable to allocate 
these to market-based investments. If funds remain uninvested and are ultimately not called 
upon there is an increased likelihood that the decision to transfer will have not been 
suitable.
If you were to transfer, you would be giving up the secure lifetime income benefits from the 
scheme. These benefits are an immediate pension of £2,385.60 per annum or £1,715.40 per 
annum with a £11,435.40 lump sum. Alternatively, if you waited to 65, the pension is 
projected to be £2,616 pa or £1,879 pa plus a lump sum of £12,527.
For the reasons outlined above I am unable to demonstrate why a transfer is in your best 
interests and as a result I have recommended that you retain the [DB] Scheme.
Mr R was dissatisfied with what happened. He raised his concerns with HL in July 2021, 
including about the process it had followed, the outcome, the position he now found himself 
in without an adviser to help him with the transaction and the fees he was being charged.
In responding to Mr R on 6 September 2021, HL rejected most of his complaint points. It 
noted the strong regulatory requirements around DB transfers and considered its adviser 
had properly adhered to these. But it did accept that during its initial conversation with Mr R 
in December 2020 it shouldve set out the timetable for giving advice on such matters. 
Mr R didnt think HL had addressed his concerns and he brought his case to this Service. In 
summary, he said:
i. HL failed to provide a full description of the DB advice process it would follow.
ii. The Pension Transfer Analysis (PTA) didnt take into account his intentions for 
retirement planning and the cost of it was unjustified.
iii. HL failed to inform him the information he and his wife provided about why they 
wanted to transfer his DB benefits would be insufficient to justify the transfer. 
iv. HLs process was opaque, time consuming and didnt allow it to signpost to other 
adviser firms, for example to enable an insistent client transfer.
v. Because of raising a complaint and dependencies on his pension scheme provider to 
deliver another CETV for his DB pension, it was likely he had insufficient time to 
achieve what he wanted with another advising firm.
vi. HL had been very defensive through the complaint process and had not addressed 
all his concerns.
An Investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. She 
concluded the fee charged by HL was fair, clear and not misleading. And it had provided him 
with a personal recommendation, which is what it was instructed to.
Mr R disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. He didnt feel the detailed 
elements of his case had been fully addressed. So, his case has been passed to me to 
review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by HL for Mr R. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like HL. As such, I need 
to have regard to them in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Further, the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) at 19.1.6 (2) makes the following 
specific point about advising on a transfer from DB schemes:
When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail client who is, or is eligible to 
be, a member of a pension scheme with safeguarded benefits and who is considering 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable.
Under COBS 19.1.2, HL was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr R to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr R a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr R understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
Ill now turn to whether HL met its regulatory obligations in its dealings with Mr R.
Im satisfied the information HL provided, including in its factsheet Hargreaves Lansdown 
and Final Salary Pensions, was clear about its general approach on DB transfers. This is 
evidenced in the following extracts:-Transferring a DB pension is not the right option for most people as they will lose 
valuable and irreplaceable secure retirement benefits. So our starting assumption is 
that a DB pension transfer will not be a suitable option.
-The pension freedoms introduced in 2015 have given people greater flexibility over 
their pensions. One option is to transfer a DB pension to a flexible Defined 
Contribution pension before retiring. But for most people, this is not the right thing to 
do.
-We can help you decide if transferring a DB pension is the right option for you. But 
well only recommend transferring from a DB pension scheme if our analysis shows 
its in your best interest.
-We will not accept a DB transfer if a negative recommendation is made.
The purpose of the PTA was to establish the financial case for a DB transfer. While the fee 
was £1,500 including VAT, it was a highly technical undertaking requiring research, 
application of appropriate modelling, quality assurance and production of the report. I dont 
find the cost unjustified. The softer matters such as Mr Rs objectives and plans were for 
the broader suitability report and were covered in this.
Mr R was unhappy he wasnt informed about making effective disclosures during the 
process to ensure these would provide justification for the transfer. Its not the role of an 
adviser to coach someone to provide the right answers. Wed expect HL to consider his 
circumstances and objectives in the round, testing and challenging as appropriate, 
dispassionately and acting in his best interests. Ive not seen evidence of a problem with 
HLs approach in this regard.
Concerning the matter of insistent clients. As the Investigator noted, if a firm feels its not in a 
consumers best interests to transfer, theyre entitled to refuse to treat them as an insistent 
client. I understand this is the position HL takes, as outlined in the information Mr R received 
about its services. As such I find no failing here.
HL confirmed that although its policy was not to facilitate a transfer where it advised against 
such, it did provide a certificate confirming customers like Mr R had received the appropriate 
advice needed. This meant in theory he couldve made his own arrangements. And I dont 
consider that bringing a complaint against HL necessarily inhibited him in doing so.
From reviewing correspondence between HL and Mr R, I find its responses to his concerns 
fulsome and open. Where it couldve done things better it has acknowledged such and 
offered him support for taking matters further, for example in its final response HL said:
I agree that we could have provided you with the 8-10 week deadline during your initial 
conversation on the 21 December and I understand your frustrations that you did not have 
sufficient time to proceed with a transfer to an alternative adviser. Therefore, if you were to 
obtain a further CETV and [your DB scheme] issue a charge for this request, we will arrange 
to reduce our charges by the cost of the new CETV. The balance of our invoiced charges 
would still need to be paid before we would be able to issue a certificate to confirm you have 
received the advice necessary to transfer.
Mr R and his wife may have formed the view that it would be a good idea to transfer his DB 
benefits, which were worth around £50,000, into a personal pension arrangement. But it 
wasnt for HL to simply action the transaction.
It was HLs role to discern what Mr Rs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt to 
facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and skill. It had 
to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. HL was responsible for analysing, testing and challenging Mr R about what was in his best 
interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over years are to provide for 
retirement. Transferring benefits is a very significant decision.
From reading HLs suitability report to Mr R, I think it took its obligations to him seriously and 
provided him with appropriate advice.
Concerning the scale of the fees payable by Mr R. Not only do I consider that these were set 
out clearly to him at the outset, I dont find them unusually high. I say this considering the 
scope of the work HL undertook over a period of several months on his behalf.
The regulations on firms when dealing with DB transfers are extensive and strict. Thats as it 
should be. The decision to transfer a pensions can have impacts that are felt for a lifetime. In 
recent years, some businesses have failed to meet their regulatory obligations, giving rise to 
harm to affected consumers, and substantial costs to customers and the finance sector. 
From the information provided in this case, I think HL tried to act responsibly and in Mr Rs 
best interests. While its recommendations werent aligned with what he and his wife wanted 
to do with his DB scheme funds, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that its 
done anything wrong. Ive havent seen anything that was obviously flawed in the 
recommendations it provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman