DRN-1446425
Complaint
Ms H complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading at the time as Satsuma 
irresponsibly lent to her. 
Background
Ms H took out one loan from Satsuma in June 2015 for £700. The repayment for the loan 
was around £127 per month for 52 weeks. I understand that this loan remains outstanding.
In her complaint to this service, Ms H said that the loans were unaffordable. She said that 
her financial position wasn't properly checked to make sure she was able to repay the loan. 
Our adjudicator didn't think this complaint should be upheld. He said Satsuma had 
undertaken proportionate checks. He didn't think there was anything about the loan Ms H 
took, the amount it was for, or the period of time over which she was borrowing, 
which wouldve led Satsuma to conclude that Ms H might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty.
Ms H didn't agree with our adjudicators view. She thought just because there was only one 
loan it did not mean her circumstances had been properly checked by Satsuma. She 
explained that if more checks had been done it would have shown many more loans from 
other companies and defaults for late payments together with payment arrangements.
As Ms H didn't accept what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Ms H could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Ms H but Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why below.
As I said above, early in the lending relationship, I wouldn't necessarily expect Satsuma to 
undertake a full review of Ms Hs financial circumstances.  In this case, when thinking about 
what it knew about Ms H at the time as well as the monthly commitments she had, I think the 
checks Satsuma carried out were proportionate. 
When Ms H applied for her loan, it appears that she told Satsuma her income was £1,400 
per month. She also declared her expenses as £835. Satsuma also appears to have 
increased Ms Hs declared expenditure to better reflect Ms Hs circumstances. This resulted 
in Ms H still having a disposable income of £330.16 after she had repaid the monthly 
repayments on the loan.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think Satsumas assessment for these loans was 
proportionate and the checks it carried out showed it that Ms H was able to afford the 
repayments she was committed to. It follows that I think that when Ms H applied for this loan, 
Satsumas decision to lend was reasonable. 
Nevertheless, in relation to any outstanding loan amount, I remind it of its duty to treat Ms H 
fairly. 
I am sorry to disappoint Ms H. But it follows that for the reasons set out above, I havent 
upheld the complaint. I dont need to tell Satsuma to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about Provident Personal Credit 
Limited Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman