DRN-3064251
The complaint
Mr B has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly refused to pay his medical
expenses claim under his travel policy.
  
What happened
Mr Bs travel insurance was supplied via his bank account and AXA are the underwriters of
that cover. Mr B booked a holiday abroad in early 2018 to go in December 2018.
Several months later Mr D was diagnosed with bowel problems. In October 2018 when he
was in hospital, he phoned AXA and explained his medical condition. AXA said as the
condition occurred after he booked his holiday, he was covered for his holiday in December.
Unfortunately, Mr Bs father needed an urgent eye operation, so Mr B and his family put off
their holiday till 20 January 2019. Sadly, Mr B became ill on the holiday and required surgery
on 1 February 2019.
He made his claim to AXA for medical, car hire and accommodation costs who said his claim
wasnt covered. But AXA only decided this on the day of his delayed return back to the UK.
This meant that Mr B was then responsible for his medical costs which were well in excess
of £30,000.
Mr B complained about this and also about the poor service he received throughout his
illness and treatment abroad. AXA agreed its service has been poor and offered £300
compensation for this. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong with its claims decision
that his claim wasnt covered. It said Mr B should have called it again once they postponed
their holiday to accommodate his fathers eye operation, to ensure he was still covered and
as he didnt there was no cover available to him. However, Mr B said he had called AXA
again. AXA said it couldnt find the call recording.
Mr B then brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think it should be upheld. Mr B
disagreed so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2021 and I said the following:
There are two main issues to consider here, first whether Mr B claim should be 
covered by his policy and the second concerning the lack of service Mr B said he 
received from AXA. Dealing with the first namely whether Mr Bs claim should be 
covered. I think it should be on a fair and reasonable basis. Ill explain.
As detailed by the investigator in his view, the policy requires all medical conditions 
to be declared. It says the following:
Your policy excludes any Pre-Existing Medical Conditions that exist either 
when You open Your Ultimate Reward Current Account or when booking 
Your Trip. To make sure Your policy fully covers You for Your Trip, it is 
important You tell Us when You open Your Ultimate Reward Current Account 
or when booking a Trip about any medical condition affecting the health of the 
people travelling, and then again at any subsequent Health Check Date. We 
will assess the condition and confirm whether Your policy can be extended to 
cover claims for that particular condition.
Please call the Customer Helpline listed in the Important telephone numbers 
section if You answer Yes to any one of the following questions; In relation to 
any person to be insured, does anyone have or previously had any medical 
condition for which they are currently taking prescribed medication or, are 
waiting to receive, or have received treatment (including surgery, tests or 
investigation) within the last 6 months prior to the opening of this account, or 
within 6 months prior to booking any Trip, whichever is later.
If We extend the cover under Your policy to include any Pre-Existing Medical
Conditions, We may charge an additional premium and a separate 
endorsement will be sent to You. This will confirm the new terms under which 
cover is provided and must be produced should You make a claim, so please 
keep it in a safe place. We reserve the right not to extend the cover under 
Your policy.
AXA says that because Mr B didnt declare his medical condition again when he 
rearranged his holiday from December to January (due only to his fathers eye 
operation who was not covered under this policy in any event) that meant he wasnt 
covered.
But Ive listened to the call recording that AXA has produced of the call Mr B had with 
AXA where he explained his medical condition to AXA in October 2018 from his 
hospital bed. AXA were quite happy to cover his medical condition since it was clear 
it had manifested itself well after he booked his holiday. The adviser did say he must 
call again before he booked any other trip. From Mr Bs point of view this was the 
same trip, it was simply postponed for some five weeks or so. Further the adviser 
explained (unlike what the policy condition above states) that AXA wouldnt be 
providing any endorsement to Mr B or putting anything in writing or indeed charging 
him extra premium either. The adviser was also well aware Mr B was in hospital at 
the time of the call.
In AXAs final response letter, it said the trip was covered on the clear instruction to 
complete a new and full medical screening prior to booking any further trips. 
However, that is not what the call recording shows the adviser said to Mr B. The 
adviser merely said he needed to call AXA again before booking any other trip, but it 
said nothing about undergoing a new and full medical screening. Further in its final 
response letter it appears to rely on the fact that because the adviser had made the 
decision not put to anything in writing to Mr B following his call in October 2018 that 
AXA can then rely on the fact it provided nothing in writing to Mr B a means for 
refusing to cover his claim, which also does not appear either fair or reasonable. The 
adviser was clear nothing would be sent to Mr B by AXA so therefore I consider AXA 
cant rely on that fact to Mr Bs detriment.
Mr B is adamant he did phone AXA again in December when it was obvious the 
holiday was to be postponed to January 2019. AXA said it cant find that call 
recording. It also said despite not being able to find the call recording that Mr B didnt 
declare his medical condition again in any event. Mr B said he was given no advice 
on that call that he needed to declare his medical condition again. It does seem 
apparent to me that Mr B did indeed call AXA again and therefore it was for AXA (not 
Mr B) to ensure all relevant matters were covered off in this call, given the previous 
call confirmed Mr B wouldnt be given anything in writing. Like Mr B has said, I would consider the AXA adviser in that call would have had access to his file under his 
policy number. AXA has intimated Mr B phoned the wrong department, but I still
would have expected the adviser to have access to Mr Bs file and redirect him to the
relevant department if necessary. And its clear the adviser didnt do that.
AXA also said in its final response letter that Mr Bs bowel condition predated the 
getting of his bank account with this travel policy. But I havent seen any evidence of 
that. From AXAs file notes, his GP indicates the start of his problems as being 
August 2018. The GP talks of the fact he has a severe disease at a very young age, 
which is correct as Mr B is very young for such bowel disease issues. But I cant find 
any evidence in AXAs file to show his issues predated the start of his bank account, 
as it believes.
The postponement of the holiday has not caused anything to have changed from Mr 
Bs medical point of view. He has told us his doctor said he was fit to fly in January 
2019 for the rearranged trip. So given there was no change in the risk given Mr Bs 
fitness to fly in January 2019 (following his treatment in October 2018) and in fact it 
was the same holiday, its clear to me that had the call in December that Mr B made, 
been dealt with correctly, that there would have been no reason for Mr B not to have 
been covered again since the initial booking was made in early 2018. And indeed, 
had Mr Bs trip always been scheduled for January 2019 then his call in October 
2018 would have provided cover for that trip given the initial booking date plus date 
of the start of his bowel condition. I consider AXA has suffered no prejudice in the 
delayed departure of this holiday, which it already said it was happy to
cover.
So, on a fair and reasonable basis, I consider that AXA should now consider Mr Bs 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions with a view to paying his 
hospital costs and other costs normally covered under this policy such as 
accommodation costs etc. Mr B should be aware of the policy limitations in relation to 
food and drink and possibly car hire. And should Mr B have paid any of these costs, 
AXA must add interest of 8% simple per year from the date Mr B paid these costs to 
the date of AXAs refund. 
Mr Bs hospital costs which forms this claim are considerable given the country he 
was in when he required this treatment. AXAs refusal to cover his claim has meant 
that Mr B faced being responsible for these costs too which has been enormously 
stressful for him quite understandably. So, I consider AXA should pay an additional 
£250 compensation for the stress and worry it caused Mr B in not paying his claim.
Turning now to the lack of service throughout Mr Bs illness abroad. AXA has 
acknowledged this and offered to pay Mr B £300 compensation. Mr B explains that 
most of the issues fell on his mother as she was the one dealing with AXA when Mr B 
was so ill. And it is clear from AXAs file there were many failings to include only 
making a decision on the day Mr B was to fly home that his claim wouldnt be 
covered, which I consider to be an excessive delay on a claim verification decision.
However, it was only Mr B who was insured under this policy so in real terms I cant 
ask it to compensate Mr Bs mother. However, bearing in mind the rest of this 
provisional decision I do consider this level of compensation is reasonable and in line 
with what I have awarded in other cases with similar circumstances.
Mr B responded that the medical bills from his treatment was substantially more that the 
£30,000 we had thought but that he agreed with our provisional decision. He felt they were 
nearer £250,000 and that he was still being harassed by a debt collector which caused him considerable anxiety. We asked Mr B to forward us the invoices and correspondence from 
the debt collector. 
We also explained that as this potentially exceeded our award limit for his complaint, we 
could do no more than ask AXA to pay up to that limit and merely recommend it pays the 
remainder if I remained of the view his complaint should be upheld. And that he should take 
legal advice. 
AXA didnt agree with our provisional decision. It also didnt answer our request for any 
confirmation that it would follow any recommendations in the final decision.
It said the following:
It was concerned and uphold decision would cause a precedent.  
It paid the cancellation of the trip in December. 
That meant the trip for January was a subsequent trip as defined in the policy 
implying Mr Bs medical condition needed to be underwritten.
It said on that basis it wouldnt have agreed to cover Mr B for his trip in January. So, 
under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) the lack of Mr B declaring his medical condition for the January trip was 
careless mis-representation with no premium refund simply only because Mr B 
doesnt pay a premium as the policy is through his bank account.
It wants Mr B to show evidence of the call in December which is believed to have 
declared his condition as it has no evidence of this.
 
AXA are now receipt of the medical bill and debt collectors details.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so again, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
To allay AXAs concerns, as it is aware, final decisions dont create a precedent as we 
decide each case on its own merits. Further Ive been clear that I am upholding this 
complaint on a fair and reasonable basis too. Here on balance, I consider that its fair and 
reasonable this complaint is upheld for the reasons Ive detailed in my provisional above and 
the following reasons below.
Given the dispute about this December call that Mr B said he made to AXA, and the fact that 
AXA didnt follow its own policy wording following the call in October, I dont consider the 
provisions of CIDRA are rightly applicable here. The Act requires AXA to have asked the 
question and then requires Mr B not to have answered it correctly. Mr Bs evidence is that he 
was asked no such question in the December call and AXA cant find that recording. The Act 
is clear that its for AXA to ask the questions it requires answers to and not for Mr B to know 
there was any requirement for him to disclose specific information, more so since it was 
AXAs adviser in October who said this holiday was covered given the time it was originally 
booked. And further had the adviser asked Mr B any such questions in this December call, 
this complaint would not have arisen.
Following the October call, of which there no dispute that it occurred, the adviser talked to Mr 
B above the necessity of contacting it if he booked any other trip. Mr B said in his response to AXAs final response letter that he called in December to claim for the cancellation costs. 
AXA now have confirmed that claim took place despite not being able to find the call 
recording. Mr B said he told the adviser he would be rescheduling the trip once his father 
was fit to fly. Which he duly did. In this call over the claim, Mr B said nothing was said to him 
about the rebooking of this trip or that he needed to declare anything again. From what Mr B 
said Im satisfied he saw it as simply cancelling this booking given his fathers issues and 
rearranging the same trip. So, given the intervention of the December call I dont consider 
its reasonable to apply CIDRA as AXA wishes. 
It remains that because AXA were prepared to cover Mr B had the trip gone ahead in 
December and given there is no evidence that anything changed in Mr Bs medical condition 
(his doctor certified him fit to fly) it is fair and reasonable in my view and in the very particular 
circumstances of this complaint only, that AXA now provides cover for this claim too, subject 
to the remaining policy terms and conditions with a view to paying it. 
The issue causing Mr Bs complaint arose before 1 April 2019 and was brought to us after 1 
April 2019 so the maximum award limit I can require AXA to pay is £160,000. From the debt 
collectors correspondence, the amount of Mr Bs costs might well be below this threshold or 
it might not, as thats not clear yet and has not been fully verified by AXA.
Where I uphold a complaint, like this, I can award compensation to be paid by a financial 
business, like AXA of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I 
consider appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more that £160,000, I may 
recommend AXA pays the balance. 
 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do the following:
Reconsider Mr Bs claim on the basis his claim is covered by his policy with a view 
paying it under the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Should Mr B have 
paid any of these covered costs, AXA must add interest of 8% simple per year from 
the date Mr B paid these costs to the date of AXAs refund.
Pay Mr B the sum of £250 compensation for the distress its failure to consider his 
claim was valid caused him.
Pay Mr B the sum of £300 compensation for the service issues if it already hasnt 
done so.
Recommendation
If it the case that Mr Bs claim amounts to more than £160,000 which does appear unlikely 
presently, I recommend that AXA Insurance UK Plc pays and covers the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. AXA Insurance UK Plc 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go 
to court for the balance. Mr B may want to get independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 Rona Doyle
Ombudsman