DRN-3575852
Complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Santander UK Plc placed a temporary restriction on his account 
following its suspicion that he was a victim of fraud.
Background
Mr W has an account with Santander. In 2021, he was paying for significant work to be 
carried out to his garden. Hed already received the proceeds of a loan application into his 
account.  He withdrew £5,000 over the counter in a Santander branch and made a £4,000 
payment via online banking to a new payee on the same day. Less than a week later, he 
made a payment of £6,000 to the same payee. 
An employee of the bank called Mr W to ask him some questions about these payments. As 
I understand it, he wanted to ensure that Mr W hadnt fallen victim to a scam. Mr W had 
already been subject to questions of this kind from Santander when making the withdrawal in 
branch. He wasnt happy to have to answer essentially the same questions all over again.
The Santander employee told him that, if he couldnt carry out his checks, hed need to place 
a restriction on Mr Ws account. A restriction was put in place but was then later removed 
when Mr W spoke to Santander a second time. He also later received a letter saying that a 
block had been applied to his account because Santander hadnt been able to contact him. 
Mr W was unhappy with this too because the content of the letter wasnt an accurate 
reflection of what had happened.
Mr W complained, but Santander didnt uphold his complaint. It didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. Mr W was unhappy with that response and so he referred a complaint to 
this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator 
sympathised with Mr Ws frustration at having to repeatedly answer questions about 
payments that he knew to be legitimate, but he didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong.
Mr W disagreed with the Investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws frustration with being subject to these questions is understandable. As is his irritation 
with being told that a restriction would be placed on his account which would effectively 
mean he was temporarily not free to do with his own money as he pleased. Santander is 
expected to monitor activity across its customer accounts and be on the lookout for 
transactions that have the characteristics of fraud. Where there is a high risk of fraud, its 
expected to intervene in a proportionate manner. In some cases, that will involve temporarily 
stopping a payment until it has been able to discuss it with the customer. It's a difficult 
balancing act to ensure that most legitimate transactions are not interrupted and that it 
intervenes appropriately where there is a genuine risk of fraud.
It's clear that its motivation in contacting Mr W was to rule out the possibility that hed fallen 
victim to a scam. Its increasingly common with scams that victims are duped into giving 
false explanations for making payments and so the questions he was asked needed to guard 
against that risk.
There had been a significant movement of funds through Mr Ws account in a short period of 
time  the proceeds of a £25,000 loan being paid in and then £20,000 leaving the account in 
a handful of transactions. This meant that there was a significant change in the usage of Mr 
Ws account, and I dont think it was wrong for Santander to have identified a risk that Mr W 
had been targeted by a fraudster. 
In this instance, it was intervening after the transactions had taken place  so while it 
couldnt have prevented a fraudulent payment, it wouldve been able to attempt to recover 
any funds Mr W had lost if he had fallen victim to a scam. With the benefit of hindsight, 
Santander now knows that he hadnt. But given what information was available to him at the 
time, Im not persuaded it acted unreasonably.
The fact that the employee of the bank couldnt carry out the designated checks meant that 
he felt it was necessary to block Mr Ws account in case he had fallen victim to a scam. As 
the Investigator explained, Santander did have the contractual right to put temporary 
restrictions on customer accounts  this is provided for in the terms and conditions of Mr Ws 
account. 
The block was only place for a relatively short period of time and, from what Mr W has told 
us, this didnt prevent him from carrying out any other activity on his account. I can also see 
that Mr W was sent a system generated letter which wasnt factually accurate, but Ive not 
seen any evidence to suggest this adversely impacted Mr W.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman