DRN-1671955
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd treated him unfairly by failing to cover 100% of 
his pension contributions on his waiver of contribution cover.
What happened
Mr M had a pension policy with Zurich. When he took the policy out he took out an additional 
benefit called waiver of contribution (WOC) cover. This provided cover to pay the pension 
and life assurance contributions on his policy in the event that he was unable to work 
through disability.
Mr M made a claim against the WOC benefit when his health had deteriorated to the point 
that he was no longer able to work. 
Zurich informed him that his WOC benefit didnt provide cover for 100% of his contributions. 
They explained that when hed increased his pension contributions in 2003 the option to 
increase his WOC benefit to cover the additional contributions hadnt been taken up. They 
explained that Mr M hadnt sent them a Health and Activities questionnaire that was needed 
to decide whether to offer the cover. So they said that he was only covered for the original 
part of his contributions.
Mr M complained to Zurich. He said that hed sent back the questionnaire. He also said that 
nothing in any of his subsequent statements indicated his WOC benefit didnt cover him for 
his full contributions. Zurich maintained that he didnt have 100% cover and felt that their 
letters were clear. They did however find that theyd misinformed him about the level of 
cover he did have. They told him his WOC benefit only covered about 39% of his 
contributions when in fact it covered about 85%. They apologised for their mistake and gave 
him £100 compensation for the distress their mistake caused.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it. He 
didnt think that Mr M had WOC benefits to cover all his contributions and the letters from 
Zurich in 2003 made that clear. He didnt agree that subsequent statements from Zurich 
suggested the level of cover was at 100% either.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this answer and the matter has been referred for an ombudsman 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the upset that Mr M must have been caused by his experiences. At a time 
when he was in poor health and unable to work, it must have been hard to be told his 
pension contributions werent covered in the way he thought they would be. So I know how 
disappointed hell be that Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
When Mr M originally took out his pension policy with Zurich, he took WOC benefit. At that 
time he was covered for 100% of his contributions should he have needed to make a claim. 
His contributions increased annually through indexation and the cost of his WOC benefit 
increased in line with that to maintain his cover.
His policy included a condition that explained how changes in contributions over the life of 
the policy would be handled. Any reductions in monthly contributions would mean that the 
cost of WOC benefit would reduce proportionately. Any increases in cover  other than 
indexation increases - would require Mr M to complete a health and activities questionnaire 
before an increase in the WOC benefit would be applied.
In 2003 Mr M wanted to increase his monthly contributions. Zurich sent him a letter with a 
form to authorise the increased contributions and a health and activities questionnaire. The 
letter sent explained you also need to complete the enclosed Health and Activities 
Questionnaire if you want to increase your life cover or your plan includes Waiver of 
Contribution benefit. I think that this request was clear and was in line with the original terms 
of his WOC benefit. So I think it was reasonable for Zurich to make this request.
Zurich confirm receipt of the application for increased benefits but say that it didnt contain 
the questionnaire. They sent a letter to Mr M dated the following day, to inform him that 
theyd processed the increased contributions. The letter also explained that the WOC benefit 
was not applied to the increased contributions because the questionnaire wasnt received. 
The letter explained that they could still consider increasing the WOC benefit if Mr M filled 
out the questionnaire which was included again. Zurich say that they didnt receive it so the 
WOC benefit wasnt increased.
Mr M says that he did send the questionnaire back. In considering this I understand that its 
very difficult for Mr M to provide evidence that he did send it back in 2003. Mr M had two 
opportunities to have sent the questionnaire back though. Had he included the questionnaire 
with the application form which Zurich did get then I think it likely Zurich would have received 
and processed it. Mr M cant say on which date he sent the questionnaire, but Ive seen no 
correspondence to suggest Zurich wrote to Mr M to confirm an increase to the WOC benefit 
had been accepted. In the absence of that I think that Mr M could have contacted Zurich to 
confirm theyd received his questionnaire if he wanted his WOC benefit to be increased. 
Zurich had made it clear what was required from Mr M, so I wouldnt expect them to chase 
Mr M for the questionnaire when they didnt receive it.
I dont know whether Mr M sent the questionnaire or not, but if he did and Zurich had 
received it, I think that it would have been in their contact records. On balance there isnt 
enough evidence for me to conclude that Zurich received the questionnaire. And without the 
questionnaire they had the right not to increase the WOC. The cost that Mr M continued to 
pay for the benefits was only based on the part of his contributions that was covered. I dont 
think that the additional WOC cover was put in place and have seen no evidence to indicate 
Zurich led Mr M to think it was.
Mr M has shown us a Pension Contribution Statement to support his belief that he was 
paying for WOC benefit on all his pension contributions. It shows a breakdown of the 
monthly contributions he made. It listed the contribution to his pension and the cost of WOC 
benefit. Ive looked at the way the information is presented, and its a breakdown of the 
monthly costs. I dont think the information in it gives any indication of the level of cover that 
the WOC contributions provide. I understand that Mr M believes he was covered for 100% of 
his contributions, but I dont think this or other statements detailing the monthly contributions 
support that belief.
Mr M also said that he filled out a similar health declaration when he took out another policy 
in 2005. So he feels that even if Zurich didnt have the information from 2003, they had it 
later and so could have used that. Having looked at the correspondence from 2005, Mr M re-invested a ten-year investment plan that matured. The return form for that plan needed Mr 
Ms signature, but Zurich say that it did not need a health questionnaire. Even if it had 
though, I dont think it would have been fair for Zurich to automatically increase Mr Ms WOC 
benefit in 2005 without his authority. This was a benefit that he was paying for so any 
increase in the amount of cover would have had an increase in cost. 
Zurich did make a mistake in the way they calculated the amount of cover he had when he 
made his claim. This became apparent when Mr M made his complaint. At the point this was 
addressed the claim hadnt yet been approved. So thered not been any financial loss. The 
mistake wouldve caused Mr M upset at his cover falling so far short of what hed expected. I 
think that the sum of £100 offered for the trouble and upset caused was fair in the 
circumstances.
For the above reasons I cant ask Zurich to cover 100% of Mr Ms pension contributions 
because that isnt the cover he had. I think that the way that Zurich compensated Mr M for 
the mistake they made was fair and reasonable and I wont be asking Zurich to do anything 
further to put things right.
My final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman