DRN-2609813
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 1995 Mr B filled in a dual credit card application and Barclaycard issued him with two 
credit cards.
Neither Barclays nor Mr B could confirm the exact circumstances of this sale. Barclays told 
us the application form that Mr B completed was the same one used whether he applied for 
the card by post or he completed the form in one of its branches. Mr B is sure that hes never 
been in a Barclays branch. I can appreciate that this has been a frustrating aspect of this 
complaint so far as Mr B is concerned. But, in this case, regardless of where Mr B filled in his 
application form, it makes no difference to the outcome of his complaint. So I dont need to 
say any more about this. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed.  
Mr B mainly says that he was unaware that he had PPI and it wasnt something he needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr B is sure about everything hes told us. But what Mr B says 
isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. I have to look at all the 
available information and the wider circumstances when deciding what I think is most likely.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Barclays gave Mr B a choice about taking out 
the PPI. In order to uphold this complaint, I would have to find that its likely Mr B wasnt 
given a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to his account without his knowledge or 
consent. But I cant fairly say that based on all the information I've seen.  
I think Barclays made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
I say this because there were Yes and No PPI options available on the form he completed. 
So Mr B wouldve been able to see that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI. If he hadnt 
wanted to have PPI Mr B couldve ticked the No box. 
The Yes box is ticked on the form Mr B signed. So, I think its likely he decided at the time 
that PPI would be useful and he chose to add it to his Barclaycard. Its completely 
understandable if Mr B no longer remembers this now as this sale was more than 25 years 
ago.   
As Barclays wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr B, and he couldnt remember, Barclays 
looked at this complaint as if it had personally recommended PPI to Mr B, which is whats 
likely to have happened if he took out the PPI in a Barclays branch. If Barclays had advised 
Mr B to take out the PPI, then this means Barclays not only had to give Mr B important policy 
information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable for him. So even though Mr B doesnt remember Barclays 
recommending PPI to him and he says hes never been inside a Barclays branch, I think this 
is the fairest way to assess his complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the lender. 
So Ive looked at Mr Bs complaint this way also. 
 
Barclays told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the precise date 
Mr B took out PPI. But it has provided other policy documents it used which all have similar 
terms. So I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mr B took out wouldve also 
had similar terms and conditions.
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mr B wasnt eligible for the policy. 
Mr B mentioned that he wouldve been able to rely on his employer paying him sick pay for 
up to 3 months. But its likely that the policy wouldve paid more than his minimum credit 
card repayments for significantly longer - up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident 
or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mr B mightve also had some additional costs if 
he was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit 
at a difficult time.  
The policy couldve also protected Mr Bs credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Mr B told us he had sickness insurance already set up that he couldve used to cover his 
Barclaycard monthly repayments. But I havent seen any details about this and theres not 
enough information for me to be able to say that this wouldve been likely to duplicate the 
benefits offered by the PPI attached to his Barclaycard. Its possible, for instance, that Mr B 
had sickness cover in place to protect other credit. And PPI provided a different sort of 
benefit and paid out in different circumstances to critical illness policies which provided 
sickness cover in the event of long term, serious, life changing or life limiting conditions. 
Based on all the information I've seen and been told, I think PPI offered Mr B worthwhile 
benefits in his particular circumstances and a recommendation, if there was one, wouldve 
been suitable.  
Its possible some of the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if that 
wouldve affected Mr B. So I dont think that knowing more about policy exclusions and 
limitations that didnt apply to his circumstances wouldve put Mr B off having the policy. 
Mr B chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he appears to have wanted it 
at the time, even if later forgot this. The policy seems to have been affordable for him  and 
he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed or he didnt want to pay for 
it.Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy. So I dont find hes lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong  
and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
In coming to my decision I've taken carefully into account everything Mr B has said, including 
his comments made in response to our adjudicators assessment. Mr B told us that he didnt 
make a claim on the insurance when he was unable to work. This doesnt mean the PPI was 
mis-sold and this information doesnt affect my decision. Our adjudicator has explained that 
Mr B may wish to approach the insurer to see if it would be prepared to accept and consider 
a retrospective claim. If Mr B does so and finds that he has concerns in this regard, then he 
should first tell the insurer why hes unhappy. And if hes unable to reach a satisfactory 
conclusion, he may be able to bring a complaint relating to the retrospective claim to this 
Service as a separate matter. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment. In my decision, I havent necessarily commented on everything 
Mr B has said. Mr B has also raised concerns that Barclaycard didnt advise him to claim on 
the policy when he feels it shouldve done  and he wants to know why the policy wasnt 
cancelled until after his credit cards. Im dealing in my decision with his complaint that he 
was mis-sold this PPI in 1995. I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the 
outcome of this complaint. I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain 
how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman