DRN-3393647
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted unfairly when 
closing its bank accounts and recalling its Bounce Back Loan and overdraft facility.
Gs director, Mr D, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
G banked with HSBC, holding two bank accounts. It also had an overdraft facility with a limit 
of £80,000 and obtained a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 from the bank in May 2020.
In early June 2020, HSBC began a review of Gs accounts. The bank applied a restriction to 
while it did so, limiting Mr Ds access to the funds held therein.
While the review was ongoing, HSBC contacted Mr D about four credits made to one of Gs 
accounts between 28 May and 4 June. The bank asked for evidence of the nature of these 
funds and Mr D provided a set of invoices. HSBC wrote to Mr D on 2 July to advise that its 
enquiry into the credits was complete and that the account restrictions had been removed. 
On 3 July, HSBC wrote to G to advise that it was closing the companys accounts with 
immediate effect and that they would be suspended pending the banks finalising 
arrangements for closure. It also said that formal demand for full repayment of all debt owed 
to the bank would be made shortly, and Gs overdraft and Bounce Back Loan were 
subsequently called in.
When Mr D complained to HSBC, the bank said it was reviewing Gs accounts to comply 
with its legal requirements and had restricted them while doing so in line with the terms and 
conditions. As he remained unhappy, Mr D asked us to look into things. In summary, he 
says:
The banks decision to suspend and close the companys accounts without warning 
or explanation left it without access to meet day-to-day expenses and severely 
impacted its operations and ultimately its turnover. 
He called HSBC daily while the accounts were suspended and was caused further 
inconvenience when being told that the restrictions had been lifted on 2 July, only to 
discover that they hadnt been. He also had to provide the set of invoices twice, as 
the bank misplaced them.
HSBC shouldnt have used the money that G held in its accounts to repay the 
overdraft or pay down the Bounce Back Loan and he wants the bank to return it.
A payment of around £40,000 was made to one of Gs accounts by a supplier on 
3 July 2020, which had the effect of reducing the overdraft balance. But this payment 
was made to the account in error, and  as HSBC wont return it  G is having to 
repay the supplier under a separate arrangement.
G received an HMRC grant of around £10,000 for the furlough of its employees into 
one of the accounts in December 2020. HSBC didnt allow Mr D to access this 
money in order to pay his staff and instead the funds were used to reduce  and 
clear  the overdraft balance, which he doesnt think was fair.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld in part. 
She said:
Banks were entitled to block accounts to review them in keeping with their legal and 
regulatory obligations and thats what HSBC had done here. While understanding the 
urgency for Mr D and his company and therefore the number of calls hed made, she 
didnt think there had been any undue delay in completing the review or think that 
HSBC ought to have shared any more information with him than it did.
HSBC had incorrectly told G that the restriction had been lifted on 2 July. It had only 
completed its review of the four payments that day, rather than the account review. 
But this was clarified swiftly, as HSBC had then written to G on 3 July to advise that 
the accounts would be closed.
While there was limited evidence to confirm the position either way, she thought 
HSBC had most likely misplaced the invoices that Mr D had provided during the 
review and therefore required him to resubmit them. She thought the bank should 
pay £50 compensation for the inconvenience this had caused the company.
HSBC was entitled to close Gs accounts immediately in line with the terms and 
conditions and she didnt think it had done anything wrong in doing so given the 
circumstances here. 
The bank was also entitled to call in the companys borrowing in the manner it had, 
once it had chosen to end its relationship with G. The terms and conditions allowed 
the bank to use money held in its accounts to reduce or repay any money it owed. 
And she didnt think the bank had done anything wrong in using the £40,000 credited 
to the account in July in this way.
She didnt think HSBC had acted fairly in depriving G of access to the furlough grant 
received into its account in December, given that it was for the sole purpose of 
paying employees. She also noted that the bank had allowed the company to access 
a previous grant in July and so couldve done the same again in December. She 
couldnt see this had caused G a financial loss, given that the funds had been used 
to repay money that G owed and as Mr D said hed paid the employees out of his 
own pocket instead. But she thought it wouldve caused the company some 
inconvenience and recommended that HSBC pay £500 to compensate it for this.
HSBC accepted our investigators view but Mr D didnt. He wanted the bank to pay 
compensation of £50,000, taking into account the impact of these matters on Gs operations 
and reputation. So with no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The review and restriction of Gs accountsHSBC has a number of legal and regulatory obligations to meet in providing banking 
services to its customers. Banks are required to keep accounts and their use under review, 
and may need to suspend access or services in order to do so. 
The terms and conditions of Gs accounts allowed HSBC to suspend its services. HSBC has 
explained that it did so in order to comply with its legal obligations. From the information Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that this was the case. So I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in 
restricting Gs accounts while it conducted its review. 
Theres no set timeframe within which a bank must complete reviews or remove restrictions. 
Gs accounts were inhibited for around a month while HSBC completed its review. I dont 
think that was too long, in view of the circumstances. Mr D was understandably concerned 
as to the reason for the restriction and to understand when it would be complete, which led 
him to contact HSBC on a number of occasions. But HSBC wasnt required to share any 
more information than it did about its review or provide a timeframe.
I appreciate that the restriction will inevitably have affected Gs operations and caused Mr D 
some concern. But as I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in applying it, it follows that I 
dont think the bank needs to pay any compensation for the impact it had on G.
While conducting the review, there appears to have been some unfortunate confusion 
caused by the banks letter of 2 July 2020 in which it advised Mr D that the account 
restrictions would be lifted. This was an error, as the bank had only concluded its enquiries 
in relation to the four payments made into one of Gs accounts rather than its wider review of 
the accounts, which hadnt yet been completed. This wouldve been frustrating for Mr D but it 
was cleared up swiftly and ultimately had no impact on Gs position.
It does, though, seem that an error on HSBCs part meant that G was put to the 
inconvenience of having to resubmit the invoices provided in response to the banks 
questions about the four payments. The bank accepted our investigators findings on that 
and has agreed to pay £50 to put this right. I think that is fair compensation for the trouble 
that the company was put to in having to follow up with these documents a second time.
The closure of Gs accounts and overdraft facility
Following the review, HSBC decided to withdraw its services from G. That was a decision it 
was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed the bank to close the companys 
accounts immediately and without giving notice in certain circumstances. In light of the 
findings of the banks review, I think it was reasonable for HSBC to do so here.
Gs overdraft facility was repayable on demand, meaning that HSBC wasnt required to give 
G advance notice. Given its decision to end its relationship with G and its reasons for this, I 
dont think it did anything wrong in requiring that this be repaid immediately. I dont think the 
fact that the overdraft was secured ought to have led the bank to do anything differently, as 
Mr D has suggested.
In the event, Gs accounts remained open for a further five months but remained restricted. I 
understand that this is because HSBC was reviewing what course of action to take in 
respect of Gs Bounce Back Loan liability. Even taking that into account, I think it took HSBC 
longer than Id expect to resolve matters one way or the other. But I dont think this left G in 
any worse a position than it wouldve been in if the bank closed the accounts any sooner. Ill 
explain why in more detail below.
The use of funds held in Gs account to repay the overdraftOne of Gs accounts had an overdrawn balance of around £32,000 when HSBC decided to 
close the accounts. So when HSBC called in the overdraft, that amount was repayable 
immediately.
A payment of around £40,000 was made to the account by a third party on 3 July 2020 
(which happened to be the day HSBC confirmed its decision to withdraw its services from 
G). This had the effect of repaying the overdraft and taking the account back into credit 
(albeit that HSBC subsequently allowed G to withdraw around £9,800, which put it back in 
an overdrawn position). 
Mr D says the £40,000 payment was made in error by a supplier and doesnt think it was fair 
for HSBC to retain the funds. But I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to have 
processed the payment in the usual way, which happened to have the consequence of 
reducing Gs overdraft liability. I dont think the bank ought to have returned the payment on 
Mr Ds assertion alone that the payment had been made in error, which hasnt been 
substantiated by any documentary evidence. 
Mr D is also unhappy with how HSBC handled the receipt of a furlough grant. A payment of 
around £10,000 was received into the account on 31 December 2020. At that time, the 
account had an overdrawn balance of around £5,000, which this payment cleared. HSBC 
declined Mr Ds request to access these funds, meaning that they were effectively used to 
repay the overdraft and pay down the Bounce Back Loan when the account was later 
closed.
I dont think this situation was handled as well as it couldve been. The furlough grant was to 
be used only for the payment of employees, which isnt how it was used here. That couldve 
been avoided if HSBC had released the grant to G as Mr D requested and as it had done on 
a previous occasion. At the same time, G had been told some months earlier that HSBC was 
closing its accounts and it wouldve known about the restrictions in place while this was 
pending  so it wouldve been prudent to arrange for the grant to be paid to an alternative 
account, which wouldve also have prevented this situation arising.
G was left having to find another way to pay its employees as it couldnt access the grant 
funds. But I cant see that the company suffered a financial loss as a result. Mr D says that 
he arranged the payment himself and hasnt shown that this cost the company  which is the 
only party to whom I can award compensation  any more than it otherwise wouldve done. 
Ultimately, G always had to pay its staff and settle its overdraft with HSBC  which is what 
happened. So I dont think it was left any worse off as a result of the banks shortcomings in 
how it treated the furlough grant. The company was, though, put to some inconvenience in 
having to make alternative arrangements. For this, I think the £500 that HSBC has already 
offered to pay is fair compensation.
The termination of the Bounce Back Loan
HSBCs review also led it to terminate Gs Bounce Back Loan facility. The terms and 
conditions of the loan allowed the bank to cancel the facility and demand immediate 
repayment of the loan in certain circumstances. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for the 
bank to do so here, in light of the findings of its review. 
Mr D is also unhappy that HSBC applied the funds held in Gs accounts to pay down the 
balance owing on the Bounce Back Loan account. But the terms and conditions of the loan 
gave HSBC the right of set-off  that is, it could use money held in any of Gs accounts to 
repay any amounts that the company owed the bank. So I dont think HSBC did anything 
wrong in taking this action either.In summary, then, Ive not found that HSBC did anything wrong in how it handled the review, 
restriction or closure of Gs accounts, or in how it recalled the debt owed by the company. It 
follows that there is no basis on which I could fairly require HSBC to compensate G for the 
impact that these actions had. The bank did, though, cause G some avoidable 
inconvenience in requiring the set of invoices to be provided a second time and in declining 
Mr Ds reasonable request to access the furlough grant  for which I think £550 is fair 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay G compensation of £550.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman