DRN-2567428
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T complain about how One Insurance Limited handled a claim made on their 
motor insurance policy. Mrs T is a named driver on Mr Ts policy. 
What happened
Mrs T was involved in an incident with a foreign lorry and Mr T made a claim on their policy. 
But he was unhappy that One Insurance didnt tell him his car was a total loss. He thought it 
had sold the car to salvage when he would have bought it back and before hed removed 
personal belongings. And he was unhappy with its valuation of his car. He wants £3,000 
compensation, the amount One Insurance received for the salvage. One Insurance agreed 
there had been errors in how it handled the claim. It offered Mr T £400 compensation for this 
and £220 for his lost personal belongings. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought One 
Insurances offer of a total of £400 compensation was fair and reasonable for its handling of 
the claim. He thought Mr T hadnt asked to keep the salvage until some months after the 
incident. He thought One Insurances valuation of the car was fair and reasonable. He 
thought there had been some delays, but the compensation offered was fair for this. He 
thought it could take some time for One Insurance to agree liability with the foreign insurer.
Mr T replied that One Insurance hadnt restored his situation. Hed had to borrow a car for a 
year as he couldnt buy a replacement. He said One Insurance should have given him the 
opportunity to buy back the salvage. He thought its valuation wasnt enough to buy a 
replacement car. He thought hed had to raise a claim against the foreign insurer. Mr T 
asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that One Insurance has already agreed that it made several mistakes in its 
handling of Mr Ts claim.
It initially told Mr T that the claim was non-fault and so he would be provided with a hire car 
whilst its accident management service dealt with the claim. But this was incorrect as the 
claim was against a foreign lorry and insurer. One Insurance explained that this could take 
two years to resolve and the outcome was uncertain. It explained that Mr T was entitled by 
his policy terms and conditions to a courtesy car only if one was available. 
I think its standard industry practice that a courtesy car is provided whilst a car is being 
repaired, and not after its been declared a total loss. One Insurances policy terms and 
conditions clearly state a car isnt guaranteed. 
So I cant say that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in not providing a courtesy car. I think its 
offer of £50 compensation for initially providing incorrect information was fair and reasonable 
as its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances. 
One Insurance also paid Mr T £100 compensation for not responding to his concerns or 
calling him back. I can see that there some delays in the claim and One Insurance didnt 
always act promptly on the information provided by Mr T. But, again, I think its compensation 
is fair and reasonable for the level of trouble and upset caused. 
Mr T complained about One Insurances settlement offer for the pre-accident value of his 
car. It then reviewed this and increased its offer to £7,008, after deduction of the £400 policy 
excess. Our investigator thought this was fair and reasonable. So Ive looked to see how he 
came to this conclusion. 
The investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Mr Ts policy provides, in the case of total loss, for:
The cost of replacing your car, if this is possible, with one of a similar make, model and specification, 
taking into account the age, mileage and condition of your car, immediately before the loss or damage 
happened.
In assessing the market value of your vehicle, we may refer to insurance industry recognised guides of 
vehicle values as well as searching for available vehicles being offered for sale to the general public.
Mr T thought hed been offered the trade value for his car. But I think hed mistaken. The 
valuations were taken from the trade guides, but they were the retail transacted valuations, 
in keeping with our approach. 
Our investigator looked in the trade guides for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage, 
condition and features as Mr Ts car. I can see that One Insurances settlement offer was 
within the range of the valuations he found. So I think it was fair and reasonable, correctly 
made according to our approach, and I dont require it to increase this offer. 
Mr T said hed found higher valuations for similar cars in advertisements. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
One Insurance sold Mr Ts cars salvage but didnt then pay him the settlement. It paid Mr T 
£250 compensation for this. I think thats sufficient for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr T was unhappy that One Insurance sold the cars salvage when he wanted to retain it. I 
think that when a car is written off and deemed a total loss under a motor insurance policy, 
as Mr Ts car was, the insurer, in this case One Insurance, becomes the owner of the 
salvage only after the consumer accepts payment of the cars full market value. 
While I dont think One Insurance has to actively offer the consumer the salvage, our 
stance is that if the consumer asks to keep the salvage, we would expect the insurer to allow 
this. The car is, after all, the consumer's property and they should have the right to keep it if 
they wish to do so. However, in that event, the insurer is entitled to deduct from its 
settlement offer what it would have been able to sell the salvage for. 
I can understand that Mr T thought the car was being kept at the garage and that he wasnt 
aware that it was to be disposed of. He said One Insurance told him several times that the 
car was his property. 
But I cant see that Mr T told One Insurance that he wanted to retain the salvage until three 
months after the car had been sold. So I cant say it was wrong for One Insurance to have disposed of the car, though it has told Mr T that the car was sold in error. One Insurance has 
already paid Mr T the cars market value, so its entitled to retain what it sold the car for. I 
dont think it needs to pay Mr T £3,000, as this would be betterment.  
Mr T said hed left personal effects in the car, but he couldnt provide receipts for these. 
Nevertheless, One Insurance paid him £220, which was his estimate of their cost. I think that 
adequately restores Mr Ts situation for the loss of his belongings. 
I can see that this claim journey hasnt been smooth for Mr T and Mrs T. I think, due to the 
foreign insurer challenging One Insurances allegations, it may take some time still for the 
claim to be settled. I can understand that this is frustrating and upsetting. But I cant say that 
One Insurance is profiteering at their expense. Nor can I say that it acted against the law in 
selling their cars salvage. I think thats a matter for the courts. 
But One Insurance has made mistakes and when a business makes mistakes, as One 
Insurance accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far 
as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
One Insurance has paid Mr T a total of £400 compensation for its handling of his claim, 
including other matters I havent listed above but have considered. Its paid him £220 for his 
lost personal belongings. I think its offered him a fair and reasonable valuation for his cars 
pre-accident value. I think this is fair and reasonable. And I think its in keeping with what Id 
require in similar circumstances. So I dont require One Insurance to pay Mr T any further 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman