DRN-3750954
The complaint
Mr G complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt do enough to protect him 
when he became the victim of an investment scam and that it should refund his losses.
What happened
Mr G has a current account with Halifax with a debit card.
Mr G says he decided to invest in cryptocurrency in August 2021  hes self-employed and 
says he was having problems getting work at the time. Having successfully made a small 
payment to a wallet which hed set up for this purpose, he tried to make a payment of £700 
and then £350 neither of which went through. He phoned Halifax to find out why and spoke 
to its fraud department. Halifax said it had blocked his account as the transactions had been 
flagged as high risk. Halifax agreed to remove the block having spoken to Mr G.
Mr G made approximately £6,000s worth of payments to the wallet over the following four 
weeks. He says he was told he was making sizeable profits as a result of his investment in 
cryptocurrency, but realised hed been scammed when he had problems withdrawing these 
profits. He complained to Halifax saying that it hadnt done enough to protect him.
Halifax investigated Mr Gs complaint and said that because it had spoken to him before 
unblocking his account and because it wouldnt have been able to raise a chargeback that it 
couldnt do more to help him. Mr Gs representatives complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint and said that Halifax could have asked 
more probing questions when it spoke to Mr G and that Halifax could have given him a more 
appropriate warning. But our investigator didnt think that this would have made a difference 
as they thought Mr G would have still gone ahead with the payments. Nor did they think that 
a chargeback would have been successful for the reasons Halifax gave. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr Gs representatives disagreed with our investigator saying that the 
investment scam would have come to light had Halifax asked more probing questions and 
that Mr G wouldnt have made the payments had that happened. They asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. So, Ive looked into this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr G made to Halifax to find out why his transactions werent going 
through. Its clear that the member of staff who Mr G spoke to initially thought that there 
might be unauthorised transactions on Mr Gs account because the amounts he mentioned 
and the amounts they could see on their systems didnt match. So, they did what I would 
have expected, namely check what device Mr G had used and who his internet provider 
was, amongst other things, and satisfied themselves that the transactions that had been 
stopped were payments that hed attempted to make. Having done so, the member of staff 
asked Mr G questions about his plans to invest. Mr G said that hed decided to invest in 
cryptocurrency having seen an advert on social media, that hed heard of the individual and 
the company he was dealing with and that hed been speaking to his mothers partner too 
who had been trading in cryptocurrency for quite a few months. He said he was hoping to 
make money. Mr G then asked the member of staff if theyd be able to tell him if the trading 
company that he was dealing with was legitimate. The member of staff said they couldnt do 
that, that hed need to do his own research on them and explained the type of things he 
should consider before going ahead.
I agree with our investigator that Halifax could have asked Mr G more probing questions and 
could have done a better job of explaining what steps Mr G could take to make sure he 
wasnt falling for an investment scam. They did, however, ask Mr G if he wanted to go ahead 
with the payments or carry out further research before doing so once theyd removed the 
block on his account. Mr G said that he wanted to carry out further research  something his 
representatives have said he did. In the circumstances, I agree that it wouldnt have made a 
difference if Halifax had done more because I agree that Mr G would still have satisfied 
himself that he was dealing with a legitimate trading company based on his own research 
and so would have still gone ahead. For that reason, and because Halifax wouldnt have 
been able to recover Mr Gs payments using chargeback for the reasons it gave, I dont think 
it would be fair to require Halifax to refund Mr Gs losses or uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman