DRN-3179633
The complaint
Mr F has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited because, 
when his car was written off after an accident, it cancelled his policy.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr F bought his first car and his family helped him pay for the years 
insurance cover. In May Mr F was involved in an accident and his car was written off. Whilst 
he had over ten months left on his cover, Admiral cancelled the policy. And although Admiral 
had paid a settlement to Mr F for his car, he couldnt afford to buy new insurance so went 
without a car. Many months later Mr Fs mother, who often assists him, was talking to 
Admiral on another matter regarding the old insurance. She was told that if Mr F had just 
asked Admiral, it wouldve transferred his policy to a new car, rather than cancelled it. But 
Admiral said it couldnt do anything for Mr F now, even though, by that time, Mr F had bought 
a new car and taken new insurance with it.
When Mr F complained to us our investigator felt Admiral hadnt acted unreasonably 
because whilst it could have told Mr F about continuing the policy, its on-line guide for the 
policy does give that option to him. He also noted Admiral had paid £350 compensation for 
any upset caused by any miscommunication. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F said he feels thats unfair as Admirals actions caused him to lose around £700 in 
insurance premiums. He felt Admiral  by choosing not to advise him verbally of his options 
when the claim had actually occurred  had set out to deceive him. In light of that he didnt 
think it was unfair of him to ask Admiral to apply a credit to his new insurance in the sum that 
had remained on his old policy when his claim was settled. His complaint was passed to me 
to consider.
I felt that whilst Admiral had acted in line with its policy terms, it had been unfair for it to do 
so. And I felt its unfair action had had substantial repercussions for Mr F. So I felt it needed 
to do a number of things to put matters right. My provisional findings were:
Strictly speaking, Admirals policy says it settling a total loss claim will end the contract 
between itself and the policyholder. And we think thats fair because Mr F would have had 
the full benefit of the policy. So really Mr F didnt lose the premium hed paid because he 
was given the full benefit of the policy when Admiral settled the total loss claim.
However, this service always encourages insurers to utilise their policy entitlement fairly and 
reasonably. And I note that even Admiral itself applies some discretion in respect of ending 
the contract. From what I understand Admiral, if the policyholder asks it, will amend or 
extend the old policy to cover a new car. But that means that if someone doesnt know to 
ask, they are not being treated the same and afforded the same benefits as others that do. 
Mr F didnt know to ask, so he missed out on utilising the remaining ten months of cover left 
on his policy at the time of the claim settlement (which I understand was 16 May 2019). 
Which means Admiral didnt treat Mr F fairly and he suffered a loss as a result. In this light, 
I think Mr Fs view, that he lost ten months of premium, is fairly accurate.
Furthermore, Mr F, being a young driver with a limited income, wasnt able to afford to buy 
new insurance at that time. He later did replace his car and take out new cover, but that 
wasnt until late 2020 (the accident being May 2019). So when Admiral treated Mr F unfairly 
by not offering to put a new car on his old policy, this had a significant impact on Mr F over 
many months. Although I bear in mind that if Mr F hadnt had the accident, hed have had to 
find money for the renewal in the spring of 2020 anyway. And there are some low-cost 
options for cover available on the market for young drivers. So Im not persuaded that 
Admirals failure reasonably prevented him from being able to drive for more than a year.
I note Admiral has paid £350 compensation because it seems to accept it should have been 
clearer with Mr F about his options. But, in the circumstances, I dont think that goes far 
enough to remediate the impacts of its failure. Not even in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience Im satisfied he suffered.
Ive set out below what I think Admiral must do to put things right. In doing so Mr F will note 
Ive given him an option. I think hes acquitted himself very fairly by only asking for Admiral to 
afford him a credit on his current policy. But I note that when he first asked Admiral to do 
this, his current policy had only just started. And Admiral (unfairly in my view) refused. As 
that policy will soon be up for renewal, Mr F will only be able to benefit from a credit if he 
chooses to stay with Admiral. He may wish to but I dont think it would be fair for me to make 
an award that, effectively, forces his hand in this respect. So Im going to let him choose 
between a credit on his insurance or a direct payment of funds from Admiral. Id add, a 
policyholder wouldnt usually be entitled to a payment of premiums like this. But in light of 
Admirals unfair actions in this case, I think its a fair and reasonable award for me to make.
Mr F said he was happy with the provisional decision. Admiral said it disagreed with it.
In summary Admiral said:
The date of the accident was 12 May 2019.
It had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
It may not have offered cover for any new car Mr F purchased  it would have had to 
check that first.
If it had been going to add a new car to the existing policy, it would have expected that to 
have been purchased and added before the end of February 2020. As it wasnt theres 
no grounds to contest its actions.
It implied Ive been unclear as it said whilst I noted it wasnt at fault for Mr F not being 
able to drive, I had awarded compensation based on his loss of use of a car. 
It said the outcome reached in my provisional decision is based on hypothetical 
possibilities, whereas its explanation for the poor advice it gave and compensation 
already offered, are reasonable redress in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I thank Admiral for clarifying the date of loss. Ive amended the date in my award section 
below.
I appreciate Admiral acted in line with its policy. But, for the reasons I explained 
provisionally, I dont think it acted fairly in doing so in this instance. And I remain of the view 
that when it acted unfairly that then impacted Mr F. Of course, I cant be sure what would 
have happened if Admiral hadnt failed Mr F. So, my decision, including the redress I find 
appropriate, as is often the case, is based on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
I think that Admirals unfair act dictated, to an extent, what Mr F did next. Of course I cant be 
sure that if Admiral had been upfront about his options, he would have replaced the car, with 
a similar vehicle, which Admiral would have had no issue with covering, and continued 
driving under his Admiral policy straight away. But I cant think of any good reason why all 
that wouldnt have happened. So, I think it most likely thats what would have happened.  
Thats not a hypothetical deduction, rather its an assessment based on the balance of 
probabilities. Which is the standard this service works to. 
I didnt say provisionally that Admiral had been responsible for Mr F not driving all the way 
through to the point he bought his new car in late 2020. In fact, I noted that its liability for his 
not driving certainly ended at the point the cancelled policy should have renewed  as Mr F 
would always then have had to find money for the next years cover. And I also noted that 
Mr F might have been able to find a lower cost policy before then, had he looked hard 
enough. But I balanced all that against the fact Mr F is clearly a young driver, with limited 
experience in matters of insurance. Also, whose income is somewhat limited such that he 
had borrowed from family members to fund the policy which Admiral unfairly cancelled. So 
I did feel that an award of £2,000 for loss of use was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral, at Mr Fs option, to either:
Apply a credit to his current insurance account in line with the portion of the yearly 
premium that, but for the total loss settlement, would have been unused as of 
12 May 2019.
Or:
Pay Mr F an amount in line with the portion of the yearly premium that, but for the total 
loss settlement, would have been unused as of 12 May 2019.
I also require Admiral to pay Mr F:
£2,000 as compensation for loss of use of a car for many months.
A further £150 for distress and inconvenience (making total compensation paid to Mr F 
£500).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman