DRN-2748603
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him for a cash withdrawal he made 
where he says the money wasnt dispensed.
What happened
On 8 June 2020, Mr A tried to withdraw £160 from a cash machine. He says his card was 
returned to him but the money didnt come out. Mr A called Lloyds to explain what had 
happened and the money was initially refunded to him. But, following its investigation, Lloyds 
then took the money out of Mr As account again.
Lloyds said the owner of the cash machine said there were no issues with it at the time Mr A 
tried to withdraw the cash. The evidence it received from the owner of the cash machine 
showed the machine balanced correctly and there were no discrepancies. So it didnt agree 
to refund Mr A. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he brought his complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and felt it was likely the money was 
dispensed correctly. So they didnt think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to refund the money. 
Mr A disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute over whether money was dispensed from a cash machine or not, 
there is certain documentary evidence we usually expect to see, such as the journal roll and 
balance history of the machine. And Lloyds has sent us both of these for the cash machine 
Mr A used, covering the day of his attempted withdrawal.
The journal roll shows a record of information about all the transactions done with that 
machine. And here, it shows that Mr As card was entered, a request for a withdrawal of 
£160 was made, six £20 notes and four £10 notes were dispensed and the expected 
balance of cash left in the machine reduced by £160.
The balance history shows whether there were any differences between the expected 
balance and the amount of cash actually in the machine. If there had been an error with the 
machine, for example  where cash wasnt dispensed properly, its likely the amount of cash 
actually in the machine wouldnt match the expected balance. But the machine Mr A used 
was checked two days after he used it, and the balance history shows there were no 
discrepancies and the amount of cash matched the expected balance.
In cases like this, I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities about what I think 
is most likely to have happened. And as the technical evidence from the cash machine 
shows the withdrawal was processed correctly and doesnt show any errors with the 
machine, I think its most likely that the money was dispensed correctly here. So I dont think 
Lloyds should have to refund the money to Mr A.
Mr A has mentioned getting CCTV from a shop near the cash machine. But CCTV isnt kept 
indefinitely and is usually recorded over within a few months. So I think its unlikely footage 
of his attempted withdrawal would still be available now. And CCTV footage is rarely of good 
enough quality to show a clear picture of exactly what came out of a cash machine. So I 
think its unlikely any CCTV wouldve shown definitively what happened, or changed my 
decision.
Mr A also says that, when Lloyds wrote to him to say it wouldnt be refunding the money and 
would be taking the initial refund back out of his account, it said it would take £200 back 
rather than the £160 he disputed. I havent seen a copy of this letter, but I can see Lloyds 
only took the £160 it had initially refunded back out of Mr As account. So Mr A hasnt 
suffered a financial loss as a result of any potential error in Lloyds letter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman