DRN-4390452
The complaint
Mr B, a sole trader, complains about Barclays Bank UK Plc. Briefly, he says:
Barclays online chat facility does not work as it should. The replies are late (if they 
are received at all), and are of little to no help.
Barclays cheque scanning facility does not work, and skews photos of the cheques.
Mr B has raised a number of other concerns about Barclays, but this decision is solely about 
the issues listed above.
What happened
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, which at that stage also included a dispute 
about Self-Employment Income Support Scheme payments (SEISS). Briefly, our investigator 
said:
He considered that Barclays should pay compensation in respect of the SEISS 
payments that Mr B said he would have received but for Barclays error.
He accepted that Mr B had experienced difficulties with Barclays chat facility. But he 
didnt think Mr B had been materially impacted by those difficulties. He noted that 
Barclays had apologised for the service issues, and he thought that was a fair 
outcome.
He also accepted that there had been problems in the past with Barclays cheque 
scanning facility. Again, he thought that Barclays apology was sufficient. He 
suggested that Mr B contact Barclays directly if he had further issues with cheques.
Barclays and Mr B both accepted our investigators conclusions about the SEISS payments. 
That matter has since been resolved, and I will make no further comment on it.
Mr B did not accept our investigators conclusions about the chat facility or the cheques. He 
said the investigator was wrong to suggest that he had not been impacted by the removal of 
contact services, and that the cheque function still did not work. He noted that all the 
Barclays branches near him had closed, leaving him reliant on online and phone 
communication. Overall, he said that Barclays service  which he is paying for  is not 
effective, reliable, or suitable. He later switched his business account away from Barclays.
Our investigator was unable to reach agreement with Mr B about the chat facility and cheque 
issues, so he arranged for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. He explained that 
the ombudsman considering this complaint would only look at those two issues  and would 
not look at any of the dissatisfaction Mr B experienced after he sent his complaint form to us 
on 25 August 2022 (and in particular the ombudsman would not look at his dissatisfaction 
with cheque scanning after that date).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr B, but there is very little I can add to what our investigator 
has already said.
Barclays has apologised for the problems Mr B suffered with both chat and cheques, and it 
has acknowledged that it didnt provide the level of service that it wanted to. It described 
some of the issues as teething problems, and said it is working to improve both facilities.
However, I dont think it would be fair for me to order Barclays to pay compensation to Mr B. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mr B suffered financial loss as a result of the 
problems. Barclays provides various methods for its customers to contact it and to pay in 
cheques, and it was always open to Mr B to use one of those other methods. 
The fees Barclays charges for its accounts cover all of the services provided by those 
accounts; it does not charge a separate fee for access to its chat and cheque scanning 
facilities, and I dont think it would be fair for me to order Barclays to refund any of the fees 
Mr B paid.
I accept that Mr B has suffered some inconvenience, but that does not automatically lead to 
an award for inconvenience. I agree with our investigator that Barclays apology is enough in 
these circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman