DRN-4097880
The complaint
Mr X complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that Mr X authorised the payments hes disputing. In line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the payment instructions given by their customers without undue delay. 
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr X 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
HSBC did identify one of these payments as unusual and triggered its fraud 
prevention systems, blocking the payment pending further enquiry. Accordingly, its 
just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the circumstances with that 
intervention.
Ive listened to the intervention call. HSBC asked Mr X about who the beneficiary was 
and how he got their payment details. He said he making the payment to support a 
relative in Hong Kong (which is where the payment was going) and hed got their 
payment details over the phone. He said he was confident they were correct and that 
he knew who he was paying. He confirmed he had selected that he was paying 
family and friends when requesting the payment through his online banking.  
HSBC went through a series of warnings and questions relating to fraud and scams. 
It explained that fraudsters often tell people to mislead the bank to ensure a payment 
will go through. When asked if anyone had told him how to answer the questions or 
to mislead his bank, Mr X confirmed that hadnt happened. 
HSBC repeatedly asked Mr X whether he wanted to make the payment; knew who it 
was going to; was confident they were who they said they were; and that hed got 
their payment details correct. And Mr X consistently confirmed that hed been very 
careful and wanted to proceed.
Mr X was also asked about some of the earlier scam payments during this call and 
confirmed they were genuine and had been made by him. 
In actual fact, Mr X was making the payments thinking they were going towards an 
investment he had made after being contacted by someone on social media. And 
they had coached him on what to tell the bank about the payments  as HSBC had 
warned him fraudsters often do. 
If Mr X had answered the questions honestly, Id have expected HSBC to have 
recognised the hallmarks of a scam and asked further questions which could have 
unraveled it and prevented further loss. But Mr X wasnt forthcoming about the real 
reason for the payment. And I cant see any reason why he would have said or done 
anything different even if HSBC had intervened sooner. I therefore dont think HSBC 
is at fault for not uncovering the scam at the time.
When Mr X realised he had been scammed and reported this to HSBC, it tried to 
recover the funds from the beneficiaries  but they werent returned. The scam was 
reported a couple of weeks after the last scam payment, and over six weeks after the 
first payment. Unfortunately, fraudsters tend to move funds on promptly. So I dont 
think HSBC reasonably missed an opportunity to recover the funds after being made 
aware of the scam.  
In response to the investigators view, Mr X has questioned why he isnt due a refund 
in line with the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code. But as our investigator has explained, that code doesnt cover payments sent 
internationally. I know Mr X considers this unfair, but I cant reasonably hold HSBC at 
fault for not following a code which has been written in such a way as to exclude 
these particular payments.      
Mr X says he wasnt dishonest; he was vulnerable and tricked by the scammer. I 
appreciate the scammer used sophisticated techniques and social engineering to 
persuade him to give HSBC a cover story. Regardless of why he did this, it had a 
material impact on HSBCs ability to identify he might be at risk from fraud. In the 
circumstances, I dont consider HSBC at fault for relying on what Mr X told it  and 
processing the payment on this basis. 
Additionally, it doesnt appear HSBC had been made aware that Mr X might be 
vulnerable at the time. So I dont think there is anything additional it should have 
known to do or ask because of his circumstances. 
Mr X says HSBC should have realised how risky the payments were given their 
value. And if asked questions and probed properly, he would have told the truth. But 
HSBC did ask what I consider to be reasonable and proportionate questions, and he 
wasnt forthcoming about the real reason for the payment. So, as set out above, Im 
not persuaded it could have prevented the scam even if it had intervened earlier.
Ive also considered the wider points Mr X has made about how the scam unfolded, 
and about what information he submitted prior to the view. But as above, Im not 
persuaded HSBC ought to have uncovered the scam at the time. Additionally, its for 
our service to determine what information we need to reach our outcome. Im 
satisfied Mr X has had sufficient opportunity to make his representations. And that 
Ive got enough information to reach a fair outcome  taking into account all of Mr Xs 
submissions (including those made after the investigators view). 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr X. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation 
he finds himself in, and recognising he has lost a lot of money to a cruel and sophisticated 
scam, Im not persuaded Its fair to hold HSBC liable for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons give, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman