DRN-2533295
The complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt set up his direct 
payment correctly.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr O applied for a new credit card with Halifax  with an interest-free offer. 
The limit was £10,000 and a balance transfer of £7,000 was made. Mr Os main bank wasnt 
Halifax. He gave his bank details as part of the online application to make payments to the 
account. On 20 April 2020, a direct debit payment of £72.10 was attempted by Halifax - but 
failed. Halifax wrote to Mr O to say the direct debit had been cancelled. This was due to the 
account details on the direct debit being wrong. Halifax reduced Mr Os credit limit to £9,000.
Mr O complained. He wanted to transfer another £3,000 and couldnt because the limit had 
been reduced. He hadnt seen any evidence that confirmed that hed input the wrong 
account number online. He said Halifax shouldve checked the account number with his 
bank when the direct debit was set up. He said that Halifax had breached their contract with 
him.
Halifax said that Mr O set up the direct debit details with the account number of his own bank 
 as part of the online application. Theyd looked at what Mr O had put on the direct debit 
form. The number hed provided didnt match his bank account number  one digit was 
wrong. So, his bank didnt have a valid direct debit mandate for the payment. Because the 
payment was late, theyd reviewed Mr Os account and reduced the limit from £10,000 to 
£9,000. They said they could look at increasing the limit back to £10,000 but needed some 
extra information to do this.
Mr O brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. In 
January 2021, she said Halifax told us that Mr Os bank account details for the direct debit 
were put on his application for the credit card. The number was one digit wrong. Halifax 
didnt input the bank account details. The direct debit was automatically cancelled by its 
system when the payment was rejected. The letter Mr O received read that someone else 
had cancelled it but in fact, Halifaxs system did. Mr O had made the payment instead by 
standing order  on 25 April 2020 - but this was after the account due date. Halifaxs terms 
and conditions meant that they could reduce the limit if they wished. She felt that as Mr O 
was within the credit limit without any sign of it needing to be increased, there wasnt obvious 
financial hardship caused. She said that the problem had been caused by human error when 
the online application was completed.
Mr O asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate where Mr O is coming from. He says has an impeccable track record of 
paying on time. But here, due to an error, the first payment on his new credit card was 
missed and his credit limit was reduced. So, he couldnt use it as he wanted. He feels Halifax 
shouldve been able to check the bank account details with his bank. Halifax broke the 
contract he had with them. He believes that the investigators review unfairly takes the side 
of Halifax  the bank is always right.
My role here is to reach a decision on whether Halifax acted fairly in what they did. But this 
service cant tell Halifax how it should lend money to consumers  that comes down to its 
commercial judgement.
It was unfortunate that the bank account details for the direct debit were given wrongly by Mr 
O when he applied for the credit card. Halifax cant provide a snapshot of the data he input  
but have told us that the process is automated, with no manual input by them. So, the 
direct debit was set up wrongly, with the wrong account number on it. The error could only 
have been made by Mr O when he applied for the card. Halifax have told us that there isnt a 
cross-bank checking process to see if direct debits have been set up properly with the right 
account number.
When Halifax came to collect payment on 20 April 2020, it was rejected for this reason. 
Halifax advised Mr O by letter that it had failed. I can see that he then made an immediate 
payment of £200  but this was received late, on 27 April 2020 - and shown on the May 
2020 statement. But - I can also see that Halifax didnt charge a late payment fee, and the 
interest free period continued. And - there was no impact on Mr Os credit file.
In these circumstances, Halifaxs terms and conditions say they can reduce or change a 
credit limit. They say: we can change you credit limit at any time and We can make 
changes.if we think there is an increased likelihood you will not be able to pay us what you 
owe us on time. This may be because of things that are personal to you such as if:.for 
example, you have missed payments  Halifaxs terms also say that they do not have to 
give any advance notice of changes  they say We may also limit your ability to use your 
card where it is not practical for us to give advance notice  even if you have not used your 
full available credit  if we reasonably believe there is a significantly increased risk that you 
will not be able to repay what you owe.
The letter sent to Mr O on 24 April 2020 said that Mr Os credit limit was reduced straight 
away  it said following a review of your account weve decided to reduce the available 
spend on this account.as at the date of this letter.we can prevent further spend on your 
account without prior notice
So  Halifax acted within its terms and conditions in reducing Mr Os credit limit. And - 
looking at what happened here, Halifax were faced with a decision to make. Mr O was a new 
customer, and hed missed his first payment  so I can see why they reduced Mr Os limit - 
they wouldve had concerns under those circumstances. 
I can appreciate that Mr O was shocked and frustrated by what happened. But there wasnt 
any way that Halifax couldve checked the direct debit details that Mr O had set up were 
correct. Mr O says he lost out because he couldnt use the full credit limit of £10,000. But 
there wasnt any sign of pressure on the lower limit of £9,000  and he hasnt brought 
forward any evidence of losses he suffered by not being able to use the limit.
So  this was a very unfortunate situation, caused at the start by a simple human error. The 
consequences were frustrating and annoying for Mr O  I can see that. But I must conclude 
that Halifax havent done anything wrong here, and I wont be asking them to do anymore.In Halifaxs final response, they offered to review the limit again  but want Mr O to give 
some more information. I believe that offer still stands.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman