DRN-3370901
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car she took on finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(BFS) was not of satisfactory quality. She thinks she should be able to reject it and end the 
agreement.  
What happened
In August 2021 Miss B entered into a finance agreement for used car. The car was 
approximately five years old and had covered around 30,000 miles. It cost £6,495. 
Miss B says that, very soon after she acquired the car, it started to show electrical problems. 
She managed to resolve these by resetting the radio. 
In December 2021, she noticed that the car was leaking oil. Initially, she was told that this 
was a minor problem which would cost around £90 to repair, but further investigation 
indicated a more serious issue.
Miss B contacted the dealership which had supplied the car in an attempt to arrange repairs 
or some other remedy. She says that the dealership was very unhelpful and would not 
accept responsibility, because she had not bought an extended warranty with the car. 
Miss B therefore took the car to a local garage for repairs to be carried out. It replaced the 
cars timing chain at a cost of £650. Another garage later replaced the cars inlet manifold 
and carried out diagnostic tests at a cost of £330. 
Miss B complained to BFS. It responded in a letter dated 2 March 2022 which said that the 
car had been repaired at no cost to Miss B. In recognition of the time that Miss B had been 
without the car, BFS also offered to refund three monthly payments under the finance 
agreement, amounting to just under £450. That letter explained that Miss B could refer the 
matter to this service, which she then did. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He thought however that BFS had 
done enough to resolve the complaint, since the car had been repaired at no cost to Miss B 
and because BFS had offered to refund some payments  compensating her for the time 
she was without the car. 
Miss B did not accept the investigators preliminary assessment. She referred in particular to 
the difficulties she had experienced with the dealership in trying to arrange repairs and to 
further problems which had recently come to light. She said too that she had been told the 
car had not been involved in an accident, but that she believes that to be untrue.      
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall comment first on Miss Bs most recent comments on the cars condition. She has said 
that there are now problems with the cars suspension. It appears however that these only 
came to light after BFSs letter of 2 March and after she referred the matter to this service. 
That means that BFS has not yet had the opportunity to comment on them and that they 
have not formed part of our investigation. I therefore make no further comment, save to note 
that Miss B may be able to raise further issues as a separate complaint, should she wish to 
do so. 
Much of Miss Bs complaint concerns the actions of the dealership in January and February 
of this year, when she was trying to arrange repairs. Under section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, the dealership was to be treated as BFSs agent in antecedent 
negotiations. That means that anything the dealership said about the car or the finance 
agreement before the agreement was finalised was to be taken as a statement made by 
BFS. BFS was not however responsible for the dealerships later actions. If the customer 
service Miss B received from the dealership was as poor as she says, I can understand why 
she feels she should be compensated for it, but I cannot fairly say that BFS is responsible.  
I turn then to the cars condition. The contract between Miss B and BFS was to be read as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That means the quality a 
reasonable person would expect in the circumstances  including the cars age, price and 
mileage. Taking that into account, I think it was to be expected that the car might need some 
work beyond usual servicing and routine maintenance. Nevertheless, there is a strong 
argument that the work needed in this case meant that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality. I have approached the complaint on that basis. 
In her letter of complaint, Miss B set out in some detail her understanding of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 and, in particular, what it says about the remedies available when goods 
supplied do not conform with the contract. I have considered those provisions carefully, 
since I am required under our rules to take into account any relevant law when deciding what 
I consider to be fair and reasonable. In particular, I have considered whether Miss B should 
be entitled to reject the car or whether  as the investigator concluded  it is sufficient that it 
has been repaired at no cost to her. 
Having done so, however, I agree with the investigator that it is sufficient that the car was 
repaired. I believe too that BFSs offer to refund three monthly payments adequately 
compensates Miss B for being without the car while repairs were carried out. She has 
submitted evidence of her costs of using public transport in that time. However, to reimburse 
those costs as well as the monthly payments would have the effect of compensating her 
twice; it would put her in the position of having free transport, which was not what she 
expected when entering into the finance agreement. 
As I have indicated, Miss B has raised further issues about problems which she says have 
only very recently come to light. I reiterate that nothing in this decision is to be taken as any 
comment on the merits of any complaint that Miss B may wish to bring in respect of those 
matters and that my consideration of this complaint should not prevent her from bringing a 
fresh complaint in respect of them. 
I believe however that BFSs offer here is reasonable and I simply leave it to Miss B to 
decide whether or not to accept that offer.   My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman