DRN-3400027
The complaint
Mr R complained that Society of Lloyds refused to change the salvage category it 
placed on his vehicle after he made a claim for it under his Farmers Vehicle 
Insurance policy. He also complained about what Lloyds offered in settlement of his 
claim and the way it was handled.
My reference to Lloyds includes the underwriting syndicate which actually 
provides the cover under Mr Rs policy.
What happened
Mr R was in an accident in his vehicle in which it was hit from behind by a third party 
vehicle. The third party was also insured by the same Lloyds syndicate. Mr R raised a 
claim through his insurance broker. He was told that a company, Ill refer to as A, would 
contact him about providing a hire car. Mr R has said A tried to provide him with an 
unsuitable vehicle and were unhelpful and agressive in their communications when he 
refused the vehicle. At this point Mr R realised A were a claims management company 
who handle non-fault claims. He contacted his broker and told him A was to have 
nothing more to do with his claim. Mr R was then contacted by another company, who 
Ill refer to as F, who he has said told him it would be a bad idea to claim against his 
own policy. He then spent two weeks contacting his broker to obtain the third partys 
insurance details, as he hadnt got these at the time of the accident. His broker wasnt 
able to obtain these details and Mr R instructed him to just make something happen. At 
this point his broker started a claim against Mr Rs own policy with Lloyds. And it 
seems F took over handling the claim on behalf of Mr R.
Lloyds wanted to move Mr Rs vehicle to one of its approved repairers. Before his 
vehicle was collected someone from the repairer contacted him to discuss the damage 
to it. Mr R told them that the chassis would require replacement. And the repairer said 
his vehicle would be written off and hed be given the opportunity to buy it back from 
Lloyds. His vehicle was then collected and moved to the repairers premises.
It seems the repairer did a repair estimate and sent this to Lloyds. One of Lloyds 
staff engineers decided Mr Rs vehicle was a total loss and said the salvage category 
under the Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice for the Categorisation 
of Motor
Vehicle Salvage should be B. An engineer telephoned Mr R to tell him about the 
salvage category and Mr R protested about this. He explained how he intended to have 
the vehicle repaired, which included replacing the chassis. Mr R has said that at this 
point the engineer offered him his vehicle back with a salvage category of S, which was 
acceptable to him. The sticking point was that the engineer wanted to deduct a 
considerable amount from the settlement if Mr R retained the vehicle; meaning he 
wouldnt get what he wanted in settlement of his claim. Lloyds settlement was based 
on the value shown in the policy schedule for the vehicle of £4,000.
Mr R has further explained that because he was unhappy with Lloyds offer his 
broker and F suggested he pursue a claim against the third party, as he could get a 
better settlement by doing this. Mr R agreed to this, as he thought the offer to 
change the salvage category to S would still stand. But, he soon discovered this 
wasnt the case.
Mr Rs vehicle was moved into storage without his knowledge and then inspected by an 
engineer. This engineer also said the salvage category should be B. It seems following 
Mr R raising his concerns about the salvage category Lloyds then instructed another 
engineer to inspect his vehicle. Discussions became protracted and Mr R asked if he 
could see both engineers reports. Hes said Lloyds wouldnt let him. Mr Rs broker 
then arranged an inspection of his vehicle by an independent engineer. This engineer 
said the vehicle fell outside the ABI Code and therefore no salvage category applied. 
Mr Rs broker submitted this report to Lloyds. But  according to Mr R - it was 
disregarded by Lloyds.
Lloyds still wouldnt agree to the salvage category being changed or removed, so Mr R 
asked us to consider a complaint against Lloyds about the claim under his policy. Our 
investigation was protracted, as the investigator wanted to check certain things with 
Lloyds and get its specific comments on others. He eventually sent out an email giving 
his view on Mr Rs complaint. He said he didnt think Lloyds needed to change the 
salvage category on his vehicle. But he did say he thought the valuation Lloyds had 
used to reach its settlement offer was too low. He said it should increase this to £5,510 
and pay interest on the amount due. He also mentioned that at one point Lloyds was 
considering returning Mr Rs vehicle to him, subject to certain conditions.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view. He maintained that Lloyds should 
change the salvage category on his vehicle to S. He also mentioned his vehicle could 
be considered a classic vehicle or a vehicle of special interest under the ABI Code and 
this could mean it didnt need to be given a salvage category. He also mentioned that 
Lloyds didnt make it clear to him he wasnt obliged to use its approved repairer. And 
he said hed have chosen a specialist repairer if hed realised he could do so. And he 
would not have released his vehicle if hed known it would be confiscated from him.
Mr R commented on the conditions Lloyds considered imposing for returning his 
vehicle mentioned by our investigator. He pointed out that these really go back to the 
fact it was incorrectly given a salvage category of B.
Mr R also pointed out he had to use money borrowed from his parents to replace 
his vehicle, which should have been invested in different machinary for his 
business.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2021. In this I said that Mr Rs vehicle 
should be classed as a historic or classic one under the ABI Code. But, I then went 
on to say I didnt think Lloyds were wrong to say it wasnt safe to repair the vehicle, 
to class it as category B originally and then refuse to change the category to S. 
However, I did agree Lloyds shouldnt have moved Mr Rs vehicle to storage without 
telling him.
And I said if he withdraws his claim Lloyds would be obliged to return it to him. I also
said Lloyds should base its claim settlement on a market value for Mr Rs vehicle of
£5,510 and not make any deduction for VAT. Plus, I suggested Lloyds should pay Mr R
£100 for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced as a result of not being 
given the option to take his vehicle to a specialist repairer.I gave both parties until 23 December to respond to my provisional decision with 
further comments and evidence.
Mr R responded and made a number of points. Ive not set them out here in detail, 
as things have moved on and I dont think it is necessary. In essence, Mr R didnt 
agree with my provisional decision and didnt think Lloyds should have placed a 
category B marker on his vehicle. He didnt think it had properly considered the fact 
that his proposed repair included replacing the chassis. And he felt I should have 
spoken to the engineer his broker appointed and the person whod provided a quote 
to repair his vehicle before making my decision. He also queried whether Lloyds 
would recover his excess for him, as the driver of the vehicle which went into the 
back of his vehicle was also insured with the same syndicate at Lloyds.
As a result of Mr Rs response to my provisional decision, and after speaking with the 
engineer Mr Rs broker had appointed and the repairer whod provided a quote to 
repair Mr Rs vehicle, I raised a concern with Lloyds that its engineers hadnt fully 
appreciated and considered the fact that Mr Rs vehicle could be safely repaired 
provided the chassis was replaced. In the end, Lloyds agreed to the appointment of 
another independent engineer to inspect Mr Rs vehicle and decide a) whether the 
salvage category could be changed to S, and b) whether Lloyds was wrong to class 
it as category B in the first place and stick with this.
Ill refer to the engineer who inspected Mr Rs vehicle as AB. He provided a very 
comprehensive report in the first instance with his conclusion. He said Lloyds was 
correct deeming the vehicle a total loss due to the extent of the damage and the 
repair cost. He said that the vehicle can be safely repaired if the chassis is replaced. 
And he said that if he had done the original inspection he would have categorised 
the vehicle as S for salvage if he could have been reasonabley sure the purchaser of 
the salvage, ie Mr R, would fit a new chassis. This would be provided Mr R had 
agreed to the chassis being replaced with a completely new chassis assembly. And 
for the vehicle to be reinspected by him or another independent engineer after it had 
been repaired, to verify that the chassis had been replaced and that the vehicle was 
roadworthy. AB also confirmed to me after providing the report that he still thinks it is 
fine for the salvage category on Mr Rs vehicle to be changed to S and for him to be 
able to have it back and get it repaired, provided this includes replacing the chassis.
I sent Mr R a copy of ABs report, which  in the main  he agreed with. He raised a 
concern about the extra cost to repair his vehicle becuase it has been stored outside 
at Lloyds salvage agent for nearly two years. He also raised a concern about the 
fact that AB had arranged for his vehicle to be lifted up by a forklift truck so he could 
inspect its underside. Mr R felt this showed a lack of care for it and may have caused 
damage.
Mr R also said that, whilst he accepted Lloyds would normally make a deduction if a 
customer retains a vehicle that is a write-off, he hoped consideration would be given 
to this in the compensation I awarded for distress and inconvenience. He also said 
he could have claimed against Lloyds as a third party through a claims management 
company and had a hire car for a period of time. So the fact he didnt do this had 
saved Lloyds money and he thought this should be considered.
Lloyds was also sent a copy of ABs report. In response it said it was willing to
re-categorise Mr Rs vehicle as category S for salvage and allow him to retain it. It 
also said it would commission the reinspection after the repairs had been carried out to make sure it is roadworthy. It also said it categorised Mr Rs vehicle as B originally 
with the safety of Mr R in mind and maintained this was correct using independent 
advice from two different sources. And it didnt think it would be fair to say that it 
acted unreasonably in categorising it as B and sticking with this in light of the 
evidence it had. It also said it would receive 25% of the pre-accident market value of 
Mr Rs vehicle from its salvage dealer if it was to take posession of it. And it would 
deduct this from the settlement amount due to Mr R if he does decide to retain the 
vehicle.
I asked AB to update his report to provide an estimate of the cost of the extra work 
he thought would be required as a result of Mr Rs vehicle being in storage for two 
years. And to comment on the fact it was lifted by a forklift truck.
On the second issue of how the vehicle was lifted, AB said he made sure this was 
done very carefully and it hadnt caused any damage. On the first issue, he 
estimated the additional work required would cost just over £2,000.
I sent a copy of ABs updated report to Mr R. He came back and contested ABs view 
that he would have categorised his vehicle as B for salvage if he couldnt be sure the 
person retaining it would fit a new chassis. He said this implied that a sub- standard 
repair would be possible, which he would never have considered. And it would apply 
to any vehicle categorised as S, as this category has to be based on the assumption 
that the vehicle can and will be properly repaired. Mr R further explained how he 
intends the replacement of the chassis to be carried out and raised some concerns 
about additional costs he will incur as a result of his vehicle being in storage. He said 
he doesnt want Lloyds to have anything more to do with his claim or vehicle once he 
has it back, but he will present all the required evidence of the repairs to AB, so that 
he is fully up to speed when he carries out his reinspection.
He also raised a concern about the fact that the photographs of his vehicle suggest 
part of the serial number plate has been snapped off and that this was intact when 
the vehicle was moved to Lloyds approved repairer.
Mr R also reiterated his point about Lloyds recovering or covering his excess. And 
he explained once again the significant impact financially and great deal of stress the 
poor handling of his claim by Lloyds had caused him.
I issued a second provisional decision on 17 March, in which I set out what Id 
provisionally decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given a great deal of thought to this matter in light of ABs comments in his report and 
Mr Rs comments. Whilst I appreciate Lloyds view that its assessment of Mr Rs vehicle 
was based on the views expressed by inspecting engineers, I think it should have been 
clear to it that these views had not fully appreciated Mr Rs assertion from very early on 
that he intended to replace the chassis as part of the repair to his vehicle. I say this, as the 
engineers comments suggest to me they hadnt really thought about this possibility. For 
example, the engineer who provided a report dated 8 April 2020, wholl I refer to as H, said 
Tloss cat B has been correctly placed on HPI prior to our recovery. New chassis frame 
required plus main body panel replacement/repair. This suggests to me they had not 
really considered what salvage category could be placed on the vehicle if the repair 
included replacement of the chassis frame. And the engineer who inspected the vehicle on 
27 April 2020, who Ill refer to as IA, referred to the vehicle being correctly placed in category B and
not returned to the road as it was uneconomic to repair. Whereas, the cost of repair 
should not be a major consideration when deciding whether B is the correct salvage 
category. And the fact their report doesnt even mention that Mr Rs intended repair 
included replacing the chassis, suggests to me IA wasnt properly instructed on what 
they actually needed to consider.
Also, Lloyds had a report from the engineer appointed by Mr Rs broker, which suggested 
the vehicle could be repaired using a new chassis frame and it fell outside the ABI Code 
for salvage. Plus, it had an estimate for replacement of the chassis provided by Mr R 
from a reputable repairer. And, in my opinion, Lloyds seems to have been more 
concerned about the implications of changing the salvage category than actually 
assessing properly whether this was appropriate. I do of course understand Lloyds 
concern, but I think it had enough information quite early on from Mr R to give the 
engineers involved better instructions on what they needed to consider. Or to realise it 
needed to appoint an engineer with more experience of the type of vehicle involved, like 
AB, to inspect the vehicle and provide a fully informed opinion on the salvage category. 
And  if it had done this, I think it would most likely have concluded it had got the salvage 
category for Mr Rs vehicle wrong by the end of April 2020 at the latest.
However, I think it is hard to say the engineer who originally placed the salvage category 
on Mr Rs vehicle got it wrong, as he based his assessment on the estimate from Lloyds 
approved repairer and didnt know Mr R intended to replace the chassis when he repaired 
the vehicle. However, I accept he could have spoken to Mr R or perhaps sought advice 
from someone with more experience of the type of vehicle involved.
So, I think it is fair to say that Lloyds should have considered the issue of the salvage 
category more carefully and thought about what was appropriate, bearing in mind what Mr 
R had said. And if it had done this and got specialist advice if it needed it, I think it would 
have at the very least saved Mr R experiencing a great amount of unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience from the middle to end of April 2020 onwards. And it may have meant 
he wouldnt have needed to borrow money to replace his vehicle and could instead have 
purchased other machinery to help with his business. In view of this, I now think Lloyds 
needs to pay Mr R a very significant amount of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, including the inconvenience to his business. It is difficult to put a financial 
amount on this, as Mr R was clearly very upset about the situation. And I appreciate no 
amount of compensation will seem like enough to him. But, I have to decide what is fair 
and reasonable and I think this is £1,000. This reflects the months of anguish and 
frustration for Mr R, the impact on him mentally, the worry and the concern about what 
was going to happen to a vehicle he clearly values very much. It also reflects the fact he 
had to buy a replacement using borrowed funds and this stopped him using what hed 
borrowed to buy other machinery to help his business. It also reflects the frustration for Mr 
R of finding out the serial number plate on his vehicle has been damaged and half of it is 
missing. I assume he can get this fixed and I will allow some leeway in the likely cost of 
repairs required as a result of his vehicle being in storage to reflect this.
Ive considered Mr Rs point about the fact his decision not to pursue a claim through an 
accident management company saved Lloyds money. However, my role is to award him 
what I think is appropriate compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. And what Lloyds might have saved as a result of how Mr R pursued his 
claim is not something it is appropriate for me to consider when deciding this.
Turning now to what I think Lloyds should do about Mr Rs vehicle. It has already agreed 
to change the salvage category to S, provided Mr R signs a document agreeing to a reinspection to check the vehicle is roadworthy after the repairs have been carried out. 
And Mr R has agreed to this. I think it makes sense for AB to carry out this reinspection 
and I am
pleased Lloyds has agreed to commission this. And, to be fair to Mr R, I think Lloyds 
should pay ABs fee for it. It therefore follows that I think Lloyds should go ahead and 
change the salvage category to S and return the vehicle to Mr R.
Mr R wants to get the vehicle repaired, but it is still a total loss and the maximum Lloyds 
has to pay under the terms of the policy under normal circumstances is either the market 
value at the date the damage occurred or the value listed in the schedule. Ive checked the 
market value at the date Mr Rs vehicle was damaged in the only guide that actually 
returns a value, and it is £6,516, including VAT. This is higher than the current market 
value. So, as Mr R isnt VAT registered, I think Lloyds settlement should be based on this 
amount. This is also more than the value Mr R provided as per his policy schedule of 
£4,000. But, as I explained in my previous provisional decision, I dont think it would be fair 
for Lloyds to limit the payment for the vehicle to £4,000 when the premium would have 
been the same if Mr R had chosen a market value of £6,516.
I dont think Lloyds should deduct Mr Rs excess, as I understand the other driver is also 
insured with the same Lloyds syndicate and was clearly at fault for the accident. So 
Lloyds should be able to get this back via the other drivers policy.
Lloyds has said that if it kept Mr Rs vehicle, which would normally be the case with a total 
loss, it would get 25% of the pre accident market value from its salvage agent. I am not 
sure whether it would be 25% of the value net of VAT, but I think its fair to say this is what 
should be deducted. This is £1,358. This means I think Mr R should receive £5,158 in 
settlement of his claim for his actual vehicle. I appreciate the distress Mr R has 
experienced and Ive taken this into account in the compensation Ive awarded. So, I dont 
think this should have any impact on the deduction I allow Lloyds to make for its loss on 
the salvage.
AB has estimated that the likely cost of repairs required as a result of Mr Rs vehicle 
being stored outside for around two years is just over £2,000. Mr R has suggested it 
could be a bit more than this. And I do think it is fair and reasonable to allow some 
leeway. So, I think Lloyds should pay £2,300 on top of the £5,158 to reflect this. This 
makes the total amount I think Lloyds should pay Mr R for his vehicle £7,458, with it 
being returned to him for repair with a salvage category of S, and him signing an 
agreement as mentioned above.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint 
and make Society of Lloyds do the following:
Change the salvage category on Mr Rs vehicle to S, subject to him signing an agreement 
that he will get it properly repaired and that this will include replacing the chassis. And that 
it will be reinspected by AB and confirmed by him as roadworthy before Mr R puts it back 
on the road.
Pay the cost of the reinspection by AB.
Pay Mr R £7,458 in settlement of his claim for his vehicle.
Pay Mr R £1,000 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.I gave both parties until 31 March to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my second provisional decision. 
Mr R has responded to say he thinks my provisional decision provides a good and 
fair outcome. He has added that he believes Lloyds tried to bully him into 
submission to its outcome throught the claim by its handling and unwillingness to 
reconsider any evidence. And it was only that he was able to cope without the 
payout by borrowing money from his parents that he was able to fight his case. 
Lloyds has responded to say it has no further points to add and that it is in 
agreement with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with my second provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion on the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Rs complaint. 
Ive noted Mr Rs comment about Lloyds approach, but it doesnt alter my view on the fair 
and reasonable outcome to his complaint, as I considered it when I reached my provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my second provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr 
Rs complaint and make Society of Lloyds do the following:
Change the salvage category on Mr Rs vehicle to S, subject to him signing an agreement 
that he will get it properly repaired and that this will include replacing the chassis. And that 
it will be reinspected by AB and confirmed by him as roadworthy before Mr R puts it back 
on the road.
Pay the cost of the reinspection by AB.
Pay Mr R £7,458 in settlement of his claim for his vehicle.
Pay Mr R £1,000 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and order Society of Lloyds to do what 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman