DRN-2541227
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined Mrs Gs private medical 
insurance claim. My references to AXA include its agents.
What happened
Mrs Gs optician told her she had possible narrow angle glaucoma and referred her to an 
NHS specialist. Due to a delay in receiving an NHS appointment Mrs G paid to see a 
consultant ophthalmic surgeon (Mr H). Mr H said she needed further investigation but she 
would need laser eye surgery to reduce the risk of acute angle closure glaucoma attack. 
She says Mr H told her that without surgery she could go blind.
Mrs G phoned AXA to claim for the surgery. AXA declined the claim as it said the surgery 
was preventative treatment, which the policy didnt cover.
Mrs G had investigations through the NHS. The NHS consultant (Mr Z) diagnosed Mrs G as 
having primary angle closure with high risk of acute angle closure attack. Mrs G said Mr Z 
told her she had the highest level of risk used to measure narrow angle glaucoma and she 
also had cataracts so the best treatment was to have the lenses replaced in both eyes. 
Mrs G also said Mr Z told her to go to A&E if she had prolonged head pain as that could 
mean her eye pressure had reached a level to cause blindness and she would need 
emergency surgery.
Mrs G paid for the treatment privately to have it done quickly as she was very worried. She 
didnt contact AXA before the surgery as it had told her it wouldnt pay. She complained to 
AXA because her insurance broker said AXA should have paid. AXA still declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs G complained to us. They said the policy didnt have a definition of preventative 
treatment and Mrs G had followed consultants advice about what was necessary to cure her 
condition. They want AXA to reimburse them for the surgery cost of £6,500.
Our investigator said AXA unfairly declined the claim and should pay for the surgery cost 
plus interest.
AXA disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said the medical evidence showed 
Mrs G didnt have higher than normal eye pressure and as surgery was recommended to 
reduce the risk of an acute angle closure glaucoma attack it was preventative treatment. 
AXA also referred to information on identified and unidentified websites which it said 
supported its decision.  
What I provisionally decided - and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject or limit a claim unreasonably. I dont think 
AXAs decline of Mrs Gs claim was fair and reasonable. Im intending to uphold the 
complaint and Ill explain why.
The policy covers treatment for an acute condition which is defined as:
a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment that aims to 
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, 
illness or injury, or that leads to your full recovery.
The policy doesnt define disease or illness.
The policy doesnt cover preventative treatment. Theres no policy definition of preventative 
treatment, but some examples are given. I dont think those examples are relevant to 
Mrs Gs circumstances.
AXA referred to Mr Hs comment that Mrs G needed surgery to reduce the risk of a 
glaucoma attack to say that the laser iridotomy surgery was preventative treatment only. But 
I dont think its fair and reasonable for AXA to use the preventative treatment exclusion so 
strictly given Mr Zs medical evidence and the nature of Mrs Gs condition.
Once Mrs G had further investigations at the NHS hospital glaucomas clinic Mr Z diagnosed 
her with bilateral angle closure and bilateral nuclear cataract. Mr Zs letter said Mrs G had 
primary angle closure suspect with high risk of acute angle closure attack and he advised 
Mrs G to contact A&E if she had symptoms of acute angle closure. He recommended 
cataract surgery as treatment which Mrs G had about a month later.
AXA says Mr Zs letter doesnt say he told Mrs G that she was at the highest level of risk, 
and it doesnt. But his letter says shes a high risk and Mr Z thought it appropriate to advise 
Mrs G about when she needed to go to A&E which I think supports that its probable he told 
her she was at very high risk.
AXA also says the medical evidence shows Mrs Gs eye pressure was in normal range so 
she didnt have glaucoma. Its referred to website information from a glaucoma research 
organisation abroad which says that laser treatment may be recommended for preventative 
treatment if theres normal eye pressure and no optic nerve damage, which it says supports 
its decision.
But from my general research on the NICE (National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence) and NHS websites my understanding of Mrs Gs condition is the narrow 
drainage channel in her eye was at a high risk of closing up at any time. The closure may 
happen rapidly with a sudden, painful build-up of pressure in the eye which requires 
emergency treatment and could result in permanent blindness. The condition can be 
asymptomatic until the sudden glaucoma attack that Mr H and Mr Z refer to. Thats in 
contrast to the much more usual open angle glaucoma (which isnt Mrs Gs condition) where 
pressure typically builds up much more slowly.
So I dont think the lack of high pressure in Mrs Gs eyes at the time Mr Z saw her means 
she didnt have an acute condition. I dont think it would be reasonable for AXA to say the 
acute condition would only exist when Mrs G had the extreme symptoms of acute angle 
closure which would need emergency treatment. By that time Mrs G could have irrevocable 
blindness from the glaucoma attack.
In Mrs Gs circumstances, I also dont think its reasonable for AXA to say surgical treatment 
to fix the narrow channels in her eyes, before she got to the emergency treatment stage, is 
preventative treatment.
Im satisfied that Mrs G did have an acute condition that needed treatment and in her 
circumstances AXA cant fairly rely on the preventative treatment exclusion. AXA has referred to information on an unidentified website that says the most common type, 
primary open angle glaucoma, is usually treated with eye drops. AXA suggests Mrs G could 
have continued with the eye drops Mr H prescribed.
But Mrs G didnt have open angle glaucoma. And although the NICE guidance shows eye 
drops can be used for her condition once Mrs G had been investigated and fully diagnosed 
Mr Z recommended surgery as treatment. So I dont think its reasonable for AXA to say that 
Mrs Gs particular condition could be effectively treated with eye drops and surgery wasnt 
needed.
Mrs G ultimately had cataract surgery, as Mr Z recommended. That wasnt the type of 
surgery Dr H originally recommended. But Ive looked at the NICE treatment guidance and 
both treatments are recommended as effective.
Mrs G also had cataracts which I understand was resolved by the surgery. Cataract surgery 
is covered by the policy apart from where a policyholder had diabetes as a pre-existing 
condition. Theres no evidence Mrs G had pre-existing diabetes, and even if she had Im 
satisfied that the main reason for the surgery was her primary angle closure.
I note the policy says:
if you need cataract surgery, we will pay for your treatment at any facility where we 
have an agreement covering cataract surgery. These are shown in our Directory of 
Hospitals.
I dont know if the clinic Mrs G used was one where AXA had an agreement covering 
cataract surgery. Even if it didnt I dont think thats a fair reason for AXA to decline or limit 
the claim. AXA hasnt raised the policy term as an issue and it wouldnt be fair for it to do so 
now. Also, the main reason for the surgery was treatment of Mrs Gs angle closure.
Overall I think its fair and reasonable for AXA to pay Mrs Gs claim for the surgery costs of 
£6,500, less any excess payable under the policy terms, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs  G accepted my decision. AXA disagrees and provided a response from its  
deputy chief medical officer. In summary it said:
 Mrs G had primary angle closure suspect as defined by the Royal College of 
Ophthalmologists - primary narrow angle with normal pressure and normal optic 
discs 
 primary angle closure suspect wasnt an acute medical condition but an anatomical 
variant. The British Journal of Ophthalmology said such patients should be described 
as having narrow angles not having angle closure glaucoma
 evidence from the Royal College of Ophthalmologists was that primary angle closure 
suspect doesnt inevitably lead to the acute medical conditions of primary angle 
closure, primary angle closure glaucoma or acute angle closure glaucoma
 Mrs Gs consultants referred to the risk of acute angle closure attack or glaucoma 
attack so those conditions hadnt happened which meant the treatment was  
preventative
 in another case with similar circumstances we decided treatment was preventative it had only referred to eye drops as treatment as Mr H stated hed given Mrs G eye 
drops. It wasnt commenting on whether or not she should have had the treatment 
she had
Id specified the amount of the claim but that might not be accurate as Mr and Mrs G 
hadnt provided receipted invoices.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered AXAs response but I still think a fair and reasonable outcome is for me to 
uphold this complaint.
AXAs referred to a decision in another case which it says supports its position. But we 
decide each complaint on the individual circumstances of each case. Weve made previous 
decisions in cases with similar circumstances where weve said insurers cant reasonably 
rely on the preventative treatment exclusion.   
Mrs Gs consultant, Mr Z, actually diagnosed her as having primary angle closure. AXA has 
shown that the Royal College of Ophthalmologists define primary angle closure as primary 
narrow angle with elevated pressure and normal optic discs and visual fields. AXAs point is 
that as Mrs Gs records show she had normal eye pressure Mrs G had primary angle closure 
suspect as defined by the Royal College of Ophthalmologists. 
Im making my decision on the basis that Mrs G had primary angle closure suspect but the 
outcome of my decision would be the same if she had primary angle closure as defined by 
the Royal College of Ophthalmologists.
AXA doesnt think primary angle closure suspect is a disease, illness or injury, as required 
by the policy, but an anatomical variant. As Ive said, disease and illness arent defined in 
the policy, so I dont think its fair for AXA to apply the terms as strictly as it is doing. Primary 
angle closure suspect is a widely recognised condition in ophthalmology and Mrs Gs 
consultants were concerned following their examination of her eyes and thought treatment 
was required. So I think on a fair and reasonable basis Mrs G did have an acute condition.
I understand that primary angle closure suspect doesnt inevitably lead to acute angle 
closure glaucoma or primary angle closure glaucoma. But Mrs Gs consultant Mr Zs 
evidence is clear that Mrs G had a a high risk of acute angle closure attack and she was 
listed for surgery.
Its reasonable for me to understand that a high risk means it was more likely than not that 
Mrs G would have acute angle closure glaucoma which had a significant risk of resulting in 
permanent damage to her eye. In these circumstances I dont think its fair and reasonable 
for AXA to apply the preventative treatment exclusion.
AXA hasnt said Mrs G is claiming for inappropriate treatment and I detailed in my 
provisional findings why I think the evidence is that the treatment was appropriate.
AXA hasnt commented on my provisional findings about Mrs Gs cataracts, which 
I understand were also resolved by the surgery, being covered by the policy. Its also not 
commented on my reasons as to why I dont think AXA can fairly apply the potential policy 
limitation on treatment facilities for cataracts.For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings Im satisfied that in 
Mrs Gs circumstances its fair and reasonable for AXA to pay the claim, less any excess 
payable under the policy terms, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
Putting things right
Ive seen the invoice of £6,500 for the surgery costs. I understand Mr and Mrs G paid the 
invoice but AXA says it hasnt seen a receipted invoice and Mr and Mrs G will need to show 
AXA evidence that they paid the costs claimed. If they have already paid AXA will need to 
add interest to the settlement payment to compensate for it not having paid the claim sooner.
If Mrs and Mrs G havent yet paid the costs claimed then AXA can pay the hospital direct, in 
which case interest wouldnt be payable to Mr and Mrs G.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay the claim, less any excess payable under the 
policy terms. If Mr and Mrs G have already paid the costs claimed AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited must pay interest* at 8% simple a year from the date they paid the costs to the date 
of settlement.  
*If AXA PPP Healthcare Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr and Mrs G how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman