DRN-2685272
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG)
declined their claim under their caravan insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R contacted AIG in mid-August 2019 to make a claim under their policy as their
caravan had been stolen.
They have explained that the caravan is usually kept in storage. However, prior to their
holiday, they removed the caravan from storage and booked a holiday pitch for one week at
a touring caravan park located near to where they live. Mr and Mrs R wanted to complete
maintenance and repairs prior to their holiday. They have said they were unable to do this
where their caravan is usually stored. So, they booked the pitch at the touring caravan park
in order to carry out the repairs. Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs Rs caravan was stolen and so
Mr and Mrs R made a claim under their policy.
AIG said it wasnt made aware of the change in storage address and if it had been, it would
have advised this wasnt a suitable storage location and therefore it wouldnt have provided
cover. It said, while Mr and Mrs R has said the pitch was booked for a holiday, the caravan
had been left unattended. As such it felt the purpose of the caravan being left at the site was
for storage purposes and not classed as in use. And when considering the security of the
caravan park in question, it didnt meet the requirement of a suitable storage location.
Therefore, it declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with AIGs findings. They said the touring caravan park in
question was more secure than many other caravan parks they had visited. They went on to
say that the security on their caravan exceeds the requirements under the policy and that the
loss adjuster and the police both made comments about the theft being performed by a
professional gang. Mr and Mrs R has said the caravan was booked as a holiday pitch and
therefore not for storage purposes. As such, they felt there was no requirement for them to
notify AIG.
As Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with AIGs decision, they brought their complaint to our
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint and recommended that it be upheld. To
summarise he said the touring caravan park (where the caravan was stolen from) isnt
considered a storage address. So, he didnt think Mr and Mrs R would have needed to
inform AIG of this. He said he had also read the comments by the loss adjuster who had said
that the claim should be upheld as Mr and Mrs R had all the necessary requirements to
ensure their caravan was safe. Our investigator recommended that AIG should settle the
claim in line with the policy and awarded £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused them.
AIG didnt agree with the investigators findings. It maintained the position that the caravan
wasnt in use as no one was staying in the caravan for holiday purposes. It also said that
from the loss adjusters comments it appears the caravan wasnt in use for the whole time it
was at the pitch. As AIG didnt agree with the investigators findings, the case has been
passed to me to consider
I issued my provisional findings on 18 February 2021. This is what I said:
Mr and Mrs R have said that they removed their caravan from the storage location stated on
the schedule of insurance because maintenance needed to be carried out on the caravan
prior to their holiday. And the usual storage location wouldnt allow the maintenance to be
carried out.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs R made the booking at the touring caravan park as a holiday
booking. However, it is accepted by both parties that the caravan wasnt being used for
holiday purposes at the time it was stolen - or immediately prior to the caravan being stolen.
Thats because Mr and Mrs R, were not intending to use the caravan for holiday purposes
until mid-August 2019.
Having reviewed the policy terms, under the definition of in use it states:
When you or your immediate family are using or visiting your caravan for holiday purposes
or when the caravan is attached to a towing vehicle. This includes a 24 hour period
immediately prior to and returning from you or your immediate family using or visiting your
caravan for holiday purposes provided the caravan is kept at your home during this 24 hour
period.
Therefore, I think it is reasonable to conclude that the policy is clear on what it means by in
use. As the caravan wasnt being used for holiday purposes at the time it was stolen, I dont
think it is fair to conclude it was in use.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R were unable to complete the necessary repairs/maintenance
at their usual storage facility. But I dont think it is fair to say the caravan was taken to the
touring caravan site for holiday purposes when no one was staying in the caravan and it was
only taken for maintenance purposes. So, I have gone on to consider other definitions listed
in the policy.
Under storage the policy says:
Your home or an address you have given us and which we have accepted.
Having reviewed the policy schedule, I can see a storage address is listed (this is the
address of their usual storage facility and not the touring caravan site where the caravan
was stolen from). This demonstrated Mr and Mrs R were aware that they had a duty to notify
AIG about where the caravan was stored.
The schedule also states:
The policy says:
We will cover you against loss or damage to the caravan and its contents caused by an
insured peril.
Excluding
Theft of or loss or damage to the caravan while the caravan is not being used unless it is
kept at your home or at a storage address you have written and told us about and which we
have accepted. 
We will not pay for:
Loss or damage if you have not notified us of any changes to the storage location or securityarrangements of the caravan.
With that in mind, I think the policy is clear that for loss or theft when the caravan isnt in use
(for holiday purposes as defined under the policy terms) or isnt stored at their home or
storage address, then it wouldnt be covered under the policy. Therefore, I think it is fair to
say it was Mr and Mrs Rs responsibility to ensure they notified AIG of any change in storage
location or security arrangements. Mr and Mrs R didnt do this as they felt the caravan wasnt
being stored. But the location of where the caravan was being placed had changed, and it
wasnt due to holiday purposes. And the policy is clear, that AIG need to be informed so that
it could assess and approve the risk. However, Mr and Mrs R didnt do this.
Ive gone on to consider whether AIG would have provided cover had Mr and Mrs R told it
their caravan would be stored at the touring caravan park while repairs were carried out.
Having been sent he underwriting criteria, I am satisfied, AIG wouldnt have accepted this as
a suitable location, and as such it wouldnt have provided cover.
I appreciate the loss adjuster has said Mr and Mrs Rs caravan security met the policy
requirements. But when considering the loss adjusters comments about the security of the
touring caravan park (does not cater for more than 20 touring caravans) I cant agree it met
all the requirements AIG needed in order to provide cover. Thats because the policy
schedule states:
Storage
This must be a bona fide caravan storage business which caters for a minimum of 20 touring
caravans - the storage facility must have physical barriers around the entire compound  e.g.
Ditch, Security Fencing, Earth Mounds, Trees / Hedging. There must also be a locked gate
or electronically controlled barrier access at all times.
I appreciate this may not have been something Mr and Mrs R could easily establish
themselves. But if they had contacted AIG (in line with the policy) to check if the location was
suitable to leave their caravan overnight and unattended for the purpose to carry out
maintenance, I am satisfied (having reviewed the underwriting criteria) AIG would have
confirmed the caravan wouldnt have been covered.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Rs strength of feeling about the fact the caravan wasnt being
stored on the touring caravan park. Ive also noted they feel the security of the caravan park
was of a satisfactory standard. But unfortunately, the policy does define in use as being
intended for holiday purposes. And carrying out repairs while the caravan was unattended
wouldnt constitute as being in use. As such the caravans storage location had changed
and in order to ensure the caravan was covered Mr and Mrs R did have a responsibility, in
line with the terms of the policy, to ensure AIG was aware and happy to continue to provide
cover.
So, while I do empathise with Mr and Mrs Rs position, I cant say AIG acted unreasonably or
unfairly by declining their claim. AIG has acted in accordance with the policy terms and the
underwriting criteria. As such, Im not minded to ask AIG to do anything to put things right.
AIG and Mr and Mrs R had until 4 March 2021 to provide any additional points and/or 
information for me to consider. AIG agreed with my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs R didnt 
provide any further information in relation to AIGs decision to decline the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the above, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision for the 
reasons I have already explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman