DRN-3396497
The complaint
Miss L complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a claim she made on a travel
insurance policy.
What happened
On 2 January 2020, Miss L took out a single travel insurance policy through a broker, to
cover a backpacking trip shed planned to take between 6 January and 3 March 2020. Miss
L travelled abroad as planned. She travelled to a country Ill call V. She was due to fly on to
a country Ill call C on 18 February 2020, before returning to the UK.
However, on 28 January 2020, as a result of the spread of Covid-19, the Foreign,
Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel to C.
Miss L tried to contact AWP to ask for guidance but didnt receive a response. So on 15
February 2020, she re-routed her trip. She travelled on to a country Ill call B and then flew
back to the UK from B on 2 March 2020  ending her journey one day earlier than planned.
She made a claim for the unused costs associated with the rearrangement of her trip.
AWP turned down the claim. It said the policy provided cover for changes if the FCDO
advised against travel to an area a policyholder was travelling to, but only if the restrictions
were announced within seven days of a policyholders travel date. In this case, the FCDO
had advised against travelling to C three weeks before Miss L was due to fly there. So AWP
said the claim wasnt covered.
Miss L was unhappy with AWPs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the policy wording
made it clear that any FCDO advice needed to come into force in the seven days before a
policyholders departure in order for a claim to be covered. So he felt it would be fair for AWP
to accept the claim. He noted that the policy included a clause excluding claims relating to
epidemics and pandemics. But the World Health Organisation hadnt declared Covid-19 to 
be a pandemic until 11 March 2020. So he didnt think this exclusion applied to the
circumstances of Miss Ls claim. He recommended that AWP should settle Miss Ls claim for
her unused flight costs, together with interest.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think it was fair for AWP to turn down Miss Ls claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Miss Ls policy and the circumstances of the claim to decide whether AWP handled
the claim fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the policy terms as these form the basis of Miss Ls contract with
AWP. As Miss Ls trip had to re-routed due to the FCDO advising against all but essential
travel to C, I think it was appropriate for AWP to consider the claim under the Government
Travel Restrictions  Section 16 of the policy. This says:
We will pay up to £1,000 in total, for your part of unused;
 personal accommodation;
 transport charges;
 pre-booked tours;
 other travel expenses (including cancellation fees, visas and (travel provider) Multiflex
Pass);
 fees for any short term pre-booked vocational courses
all of which have been paid for or where there is a contract to pay that cannot be recovered
from anywhere else. We will provide this cover if the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or
any government or other official authority advise against travel to a country/region shown on
your travel itinerary within seven days of your scheduled;
 departure from your home country and the area forms a major part of your journey.
 date of visiting that area, if you are already travelling.
In this case, theres no dispute that Miss L decided against travelling to C on 18 February
2020 as planned because the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel to that
destination on 28 January 2020. AWP effectively says that for Miss L to be covered under
this section, FCDO advice against travel to C wouldve needed to be given no earlier than 11
February 2020. 11 February 2020 was seven days before she was due to travel from V on to
C.
On a strict interpretation of the policy terms then, given there was a three-week period
between the change in FCDO advice and Miss Ls planned date of travel to C, her claim isnt
strictly covered. However, I dont think this leads to a fair and reasonable outcome for the
reasons Ill go on to explore.
While it may not be unusual for travel insurers to apply time limits such as this to the cover
offered (and an insurer is entitled to limit its exposure to risk in this way), I think the seven
day time limit set out under this section of Miss Ls policy is a significant restriction on cover.
This is because a successful claim under this section of the policy would be dependent on
the date of the claim falling within what I think is a very narrow window of seven days.
As I think this time limit is a significant restriction on Miss Ls policy, I think it should have
been clearly highlighted to her both in her policy documentation and at the point of sale.
Neither the IPID, nor the Summary of Cover set out on page 2 of Miss Ls policy booklet
refers to the seven-day time limit restriction for a successful claim set out under Section 16. I
understand the IPID states that the document contains only a summary of the main cover
and exclusions and refers the customer to the full policy terms and conditions. But a
customer would need to go much further into the detail of their policy wording (to page 17) to
understand that they could only claim for government travel restrictions if their planned travel
was within a particular, narrow seven-day window. I dont think its fair or reasonable to
expect customers to be required to read the terms and conditions thoroughly from beginning
to end in order to understand important issues regarding what is and isnt covered, and I
think a customer would be entitled to expect a restriction like this to be more prominent (for
example, to be in the IPID).
Although the FCDO advice changed more than seven days before Miss L was due to travel,
I dont think this has unfairly disadvantaged AWPs position. I say that because the FCDO
advice against travel to C was still in place at the time Miss L was due to travel to it. Miss Ls
original trip hadnt been booked as part of a package. Shed booked the flightsindependently. The available evidence suggests that her pre-booked flights did go ahead as
planned. So it seems unlikely that Miss L would be entitled to any refund of her flight costs
from the airlines under EU regulations because the airlines didnt cancel the flights. So I
dont think she could have recovered any costs from any third party. And Im not persuaded
that just because Miss L had three weeks notice of the change in FCDO advice before she
was due to travel, she couldve done anything more to reduce her losses.
Miss Ls claim has the same components of a claim which AWP would have paid if the trip
dates had been changed three weeks earlier. So even if I thought AWP could reasonably
rely on the seven-day time limit restriction, Id be minded to direct AWP to reassess Miss Ls
claim on a fair and reasonable basis regardless.
AWP suggested to Miss L that she contact the travel provider which was named on her
policy. Miss L didnt book her trip through this company though  her flights were booked
independently through comparison websites and domestic airlines. So it seems unlikely that
shed have had any access to specialist backpacker travel advice or that shed have been
able to re-route her trip at any less cost than she actually did.
I note too that the policy specifically excludes any claims if a policyholder travels against
FCDO advice. So if she had travelled to C on 18 February 2020, Miss L wouldve been
acting against FCDO advice and therefore, wouldnt have been entitled to any cover under
the policy at all. It seems to me that this wouldve been an unfair position for Miss L to be left
in. And it seems she took reasonable steps to follow FCDO advice and mitigate her potential
losses.
On this basis, I currently find it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to assess Miss Ls
claim under the government restriction cover provided by the policy.
I accept the policy specifically excludes claims which are caused by an epidemic or
pandemic. But the World Health Organisation didnt deem Covid-19 to be a pandemic until
11 March 2020  over three weeks after Miss L rerouted her trip. So I dont think it would be
fair for AWP to apply this exclusion to Miss Ls claim on the facts of this case.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Miss L had nothing more to add.
AWP didnt respond by the deadline I gave, despite chases from our investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Miss L accepted my provisional decision and AWP didnt respond to it, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Miss Ls complaint.I direct AWP P&C SA to reassess Miss Ls claim under the government restriction
section of the policy, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman