DRN-3758610
The complaint
Mrs J complains through her representative that Everyday Lending Limited irresponsibly 
provided her with a high cost loan that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Everyday provided Mrs J with a loan of £2,000 on 22 March 2017, repayable over 24 months 
at the monthly rate of around £180. She struggled to pay the instalments and by 
arrangement made smaller payments towards the balance. She paid off the balance of the 
loan in March 2020 by taking out a loan through another provider. She complained through 
her representative to Everyday about irresponsible lending.
Everyday said it carried out necessary verification checks. These included obtaining and 
reviewing Mrs Js credit record, reviewing one months payslip and the most recent two 
months statements for Mrs Js bank account. It used ONS (Office for National Statistics) 
data to assess her outgoings. It assessed that the loan was affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our adjudicator said that, based on the 
checks it carried out she hadnt seen anything which suggested Everyday wouldve 
concluded that Mrs J wouldnt have been able to sustainably make the repayments needed 
for the loan.
Mrs J disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs J 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs J would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Js ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Everyday had to ensure 
that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs J undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs J. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
According to the credit report Everyday obtained at the time of the application, Mrs J had 
one loan for which she was paying £159 a month, two credit cards with balances on them 
totalling just over £1,000 and two mail order accounts with balances totalling around £2,400. 
Estimating that she would need to pay 5% of those balances she would have been paying 
around £333 a month on her existing credit commitments. None of those accounts were to 
be paid off by the new loan, so the instalment would be added to those commitments. Her 
income was verified at £1,931 a month, so she would have been spending about 26.5% of 
that on credit commitments. This was a little high so it depended on what her disposable 
income would have been.
Using ONS data Everyday assessed Mrs Js outgoings at about £676. She had a small 
overdraft, but I think looking at the bank statements that this was a reasonable assessment 
to make. I estimate that she would have had a disposable income, after paying the new loan 
instalment, of around £233. This was tight but I think it was affordable.
Mrs Js representative said in the complaint to Everyday that Mrs J had three accounts that 
were defaulted, one quite recently. Having looked at the credit report obtained by Everyday, I 
cant see any accounts marked as being in default. One of the accounts mentioned had a £0 
balance on it so I wouldnt expect that to be taken into account in any event. Credit reports 
might not show very recent records but if Mrs H was aware of this she should have told 
Everyday when making her application. 
I think Everyday carried out proportionate checks and that those checks wouldnt have 
alerted it to carry out any further assessment. Im sorry that Mrs J got into more difficulties 
after the loan was issued, but based on Everydays assessment at the time, I think it was 
reasonable for it to assess that the loan was affordable. So, I think it made a fair lending decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman