DRN-1186935
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim shes made on 
her Key Protection insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M experienced a fire on her land in which her caravan was destroyed. She kept the 
spare key for her car in the caravan and Ms M believes the key was destroyed in the fire. Ms 
M only realised what had happened several days later, so she submitted a claim on her key 
protection insurance policy. 
But IPA declined her claim. It said that any loss from the fire in her caravan should be 
claimed under the insurance covering the caravan. IPA also said the cover on the policy 
doesnt extend to broken or damaged items and, therefore, as the key was damaged in the 
fire, it would not be covered under the terms of the Key Cover Policy. IPA further advised 
that the claim shouldve been logged within 48 hours of realising the key had been lost. And 
as the request to raise a claim was not made until 14 days after the event the claim has 
been declined.
But Ms M remained unhappy, so she complained to our service. She said she had no 
insurance cover on the caravan, and she couldnt claim elsewhere for the key. She also 
advised that shed completely forgotten that the key was in the caravan until several days 
after the fire, and that the 48-hour exclusion in the policy was unfair. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He felt that IPA hadnt done anything 
wrong and he didnt uphold the complaint. But Ms M disagreed, and shes asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M was given a key protection insurance policy for free as part of the finance agreement 
for her car. And this policy has a very specific set of circumstances under which you can 
claim. The policy says cover will only start "In the event of any of the insured incidents. And 
the insured incidents are listed as follows:
Theft or loss of your keys - If your vehicle or house keys are stolen or lost anywhere 
in the UK, you must report this to both the police, obtaining a crime reference or lost 
property number. 
Vehicle keys  If your keys are locked in your vehicle or broken in any lock of your 
vehicle denying you access or use.
House keys  If your keys are locked in your house or broken in any external door 
lock denying you access to your property.
If you are stranded more than 20 miles from Home by theft or loss of your vehicle 
keys and have no access to your vehicle. 
The first thing I need to decide is whether an insured incident took place. Ms Ms caravan 
was destroyed in a fire. She stored the spare key for her car in the caravan. Weve no idea 
what happened to cause the fire. But Ms M says the remains of the key were never found. It 
was such a severe fire I expect it got totally melted. 
Based on this statement I dont think that the total destruction of the key in a fire in these 
specific circumstances, falls under any of the insured incidents that this policy covers. Ms M 
knew where the key was when the fire started, so it wasnt stolen or lost, and it was 
destroyed in a fire, not broken in a lock. The specific cover provided by this policy is set out 
very clearly in the policy terms and conditions. And unfortunately for Ms M there is no 
specific head of cover set out in the terms and conditions of this policy for the claim she has 
submitted for the destruction of her spare key in a fire. So, I dont think IPA have done 
anything wrong by declining the claim. 
I appreciate that Ms M has made an argument to say she wasnt aware until several days 
after the fire that the key had been destroyed. And that she believes the specific timeframe 
restrictions within which she could make a claim as set out in the policy are unfair in this 
instance. And I agree that this is a valid point. It could easily be argued especially given the 
unusual circumstances of this specific claim that the timeframe is restrictive. But as Ive 
found that there was no cover in place for the claim in the first instance, I dont believe when 
the claim was submitted has had any bearing on the outcome. So, I wont be making a 
finding on this point.
My final decision
 
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
This key protection insurance policy as provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA has no 
cover in place for this claim. So, it hasnt done anything wrong by declining the claim.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman