DRN-3158869
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was unable to make repayments to his credit card held with HSBC 
UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mr T holds a personal credit card with HSBC and has complained that he was unable to 
make repayments over the phone. He says he called on several occasions but was unable 
to get through to anyone and his calls were terminated, which meant that he was unable to 
make his repayments given that he does not use online banking and couldnt visit his local 
branch. This resulted in missed payment markers being recorded on his account, which Mr T 
thinks is unfair.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that HSBC had applied the 
late payment markers fairly, as Mr T had missed several payments, which he could have 
made through various other means rather than solely relying on phoning the bank. Mr T 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the reasons set out below.
I acknowledge that Mr T may not have always been able get through to an agent on the 
phone to make his repayments. But there were several other options open to him to make 
his repayments, such as using the automated telephone service, or by using online banking 
or visiting his local branch. I appreciate that he may not want to use online banking as he 
considers it impractical to have to remember login details etc, but that is his personal choice. 
From what I can see, Mr T hasnt been prevented from using online banking, and neither 
have HSBC prevented him from making a payment in branch or through any other means. 
He couldve also set up a direct debit for payments to be made automatically each month to 
save him from having to call HSBC. So, with several other options open to him to make his 
repayments, I do not consider they can be held responsible for the fact that Mr T could not 
make his repayments. 
Mr T says that HSBC refused to take a payment over the phone with him and also 
terminated the call. I accept that some of his calls may have been disconnected. But I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that any agent of HSBC refused to take payment over 
the phone. And I note that HSBC paid £50 compensation as part of a previous complaint as 
a gesture of goodwill for the troubles he said he was having getting through on the phone. 
So, even if Mr T was disconnected, I consider the compensation theyve paid for this to be 
fair in all the circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr T is unhappy that HSBC have recorded missed payment markers 
against his credit file. But they are duty bound to make accurate reports to the relevant credit 
referencing agencies. And given that he missed several repayments between January 2020 
and June 2021, I do not consider it unfair or unreasonable that HSBC have recorded this 
against his credit file, as they are obliged to do so. Even if HSBC were not able to take his 
payment over the phone, it still doesnt change the fact that there were multiple other ways 
that Mr T couldve made his repayments. It also wasnt just one repayment that he missed, it 
was several, and I dont consider it likely that HSBC refused to take payment over the phone 
every month that Mr T tried to make one, and there is no evidence to support this either. So, 
I see no reason that HSBC should have to remove the missed payment markers theyve 
recorded in these circumstances.
Mr T has also said that HSBC have been duplicating the missed payment markers and 
recording two per month instead of one. He has provided a partial screenshot of his 
Clearscore home page, which gives an overview of his repayment history. But it does not 
show any evidence of HSBC applying duplicate missed payment markers. Therefore, this is 
not something I will be asking them to rectify. 
I understand that Mr T is also unhappy with the fact that HSBC failed to log a complaint 
when he first reported his concerns, and because they also didnt call him back. However, 
complaint handling is not an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (it is not 
considered a financial service, for example). So it is therefore not something this service is 
able to consider as part of Mr Ts complaint. 
I recognise that this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for. But I do not consider HSBC to 
have acted unfairly by applying the late payment markers on his credit file, so I will not be 
directing them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman