DRN-4470527
The complaint
Miss H complains that the loan she had from Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited (trading as
My Community Bank) was unaffordable to her.
What happened
Miss H had one loan from My Community Bank in October 2020 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due
1 25 Oct 2020 £10,500 48m £289.73 31 Oct 2024
Miss H says My Community Bank didnt assess her income and expenditure before agreeing 
the loan. She says she couldnt afford the repayments and is now in a cycle of debt. Miss Hs 
representative says that My Community Bank also failed to provide a valid loan agreement.
My Community Bank says it conducted a creditworthiness assessment and verified Miss Hs 
income and expenditure with Open Banking. It says its checks indicated the repayments 
were sustainable for Miss H.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that, 
based on the information it had, the loan was affordable to Miss H. She also found that My 
Community Bank had provided evidence of the validity of the loan.
Miss Hs representative responded to say, in summary, that the agreement was unfair and 
key features werent explained, affordability was assessed without evidence of income or 
expenditure, assistance was not offered, and charges were added to the original debt.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision both to Miss H and to My Community Bank on 24 October 
2023. 
Ive summarised my findings below:
I was satisfied My Community Bank had carried out proportionate checks;
But I didnt consider the information indicated the loan was sustainably affordable to 
Miss H because:
oThe loan was for 48 months, and My Community Bank needed to be satisfied 
that the repayments were sustainable over that period;
oMy Community Banks affordability checks showed Miss H only had about 
£100 of disposable income each month;
oMiss Hs bank statements showed regular transfers out of the account for 
around £800 which didnt appear to have been included in the affordability 
analysis;
I saw evidence that showed:
oMiss Hs monthly income was £1,631;
oHer share of the mortgage was £254 per month;
oThere were regular monthly payments totalling £443 for another loan, 
insurance, gym membership and a standing order to her partner;
oHer minimum monthly credit commitment on a mail order account was around 
£50;
oFood and travel costs combined averaged about £370;
Miss H clarified that:
oShe was paying her mum £200 monthly for a loan her mum had taken out on 
her behalf;
oFurther transfers out of the account were for household bills, including 
utilities.
Even before the further transfers were taken into account, Miss H would have had only 
around £20 per month after shed made the new loan repayment. So, on that basis, I was 
satisfied that My Community Bank should have found the new lending to be unsustainable 
for Miss H.
In summary, even though I found My Community Bank carried out proportionate checks, I 
didnt find it made a fair lending decision, although I didnt consider it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in any other way.
Miss H provided no additional information.
My Community Bank responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As My Community Bank accepted my provisional decision, and neither party provided any 
additional information, I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited (trading as My 
Community Bank) should:
Add up the total amount of money Miss H received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss H made should be deducted from this amount;
oIf this results in Miss H having paid more than she received, any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)*. My Community Bank should also remove all adverse information regarding this 
loan from Miss Hs credit file;
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then My Community Bank should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Miss H. 
Once Miss H has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to 
the loan should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires My Community Bank to deduct tax from this interest. My
Community Bank should give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman