DRN-2832136
The complaint
Mr C complains that Studio Retail Limited mishandled his complaint about a faulty item he 
had purchased via a credit agreement with it.
 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr C ordered a computer case from Studio Retail. He has a credit 
agreement with Studio Retail and used that to make the purchase.
Mr C says that, when he installed his motherboard into the computer case the computer 
wouldnt then work. He later discovered that his motherboard had been damaged. He 
complained to Studio Retail and asked for a refund and compensation for the damage the 
item had caused to his computer.
Studio Retail asked Mr C to supply a video of the unit and advised that he may not have 
connected the header cables from the front panel correctly into the motherboard. But Mr C 
disagreed with that and said that he had correctly installed the motherboard into the case. 
Studio Retail says, out of all the computer case units it had sold of this make and model, 
only one had been returned and there had been no instances of similar complaints to Mr Cs.  
It also says it contacted the manufacturer who were able to confirm this type of error hadnt 
occurred before. 
Studio Retail says it wasnt possible for it to replicate the fault, but it accepted Mr Cs word 
that the computer case was faulty and so credited the value of the case back to Mr Cs 
account. However, although it upheld his complaint that the part had been faulty, it didnt 
agree that the computer case had caused the damage to Mr Cs motherboard, as it said 
there was no evidence of that.
Mr C was unhappy at Studio Retails decision and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. She said that Studio Retail 
had dealt with his complaint fairly, as it had investigated as far as it was able and credited 
him back the cost of the computer case. Our investigator said, as Studio Retail had only 
supplied the case, then it was possible that another component had caused the issue and 
that wouldnt be the responsibility of Studio Retail. She said there wasnt enough evidence to 
say the case had damaged Mr Cs motherboard.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view and the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C feels that Studio Retail havent listened to him and that he has had to 
spend money replacing parts that he believes were damaged by the faulty case. He says he 
tried the various components in another case and they still wont work, and that Studio 
Retails investigation into the matter was inadequate.
Studio Retail says that, due to the value of the computer case its practice is to accept a 
customers declaration that an item is faulty without requiring additional evidence. And, 
looking at the cost of the item, I think that is a reasonable and fair approach for Studio Retail 
to take. However, Mr C requested that he was also compensated for the damage he says 
was caused to his computer components that he had put into the case. He has described his 
motherboard as fried.
I think there may have been some misunderstanding over Studio Retails comment that it 
had been unable to replicate the fault. As I understand it, what Studio Retail meant by this, 
was that it was simply not possible for it to replicate the fault due to the internal components 
not being supplied with the product and so, due to the unique set-up chosen by Mr C, it 
would not be possible to recreate the same conditions to allow the fault to be replicated. 
Although I am not a computer expert, I accept that what Studio Retail has said is more likely 
than not correct, and I think its a reasonable conclusion for it to have drawn.
Ive seen that Studio Retail asked Mr C to supply a video of the set-up of the computer case 
and his computer. Ive also seen it passed this video to the manufacturer. The view was that 
the power button hadnt been correctly connected to the motherboard. I appreciate Mr C 
didnt accept this was the cause of the computer not turning on.
Mr C says that his motherboard was damaged by the computer case as he has tried the 
components in another case, and they will not now work. Studio Retail says there isnt any 
evidence that this item caused any damage. Studio Retail says its able to confirm there 
have been no similar complaints and, out of over sixty units sold, only one has been 
returned. The manufacturer has also confirmed this isnt a complaint it has had before.
So, although Studio Retail has accepted Mr Cs word the computer case is faulty, it hasnt 
been able to find any evidence that would support it was the computer case which caused 
the damage to Mr Cs computer components. And, I think Studio Retail has investigated the 
issue as far as it was able to in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my view, but I dont think that the way Studio Retail 
looked at Mr Cs complaint was inadequate or that it reached an unreasonable conclusion. 
As the components were not supplied with the case, I cant reasonably say that it was the 
computer case and not some other reason which caused the motherboard to no longer work. 
And it would therefore be unfair for me to hold Studio Retail responsible for any of Mr Cs 
components not now working.
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn GriffithOmbudsman