DRN-3429495
The complaint
Miss M complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited  trading as MINI Financial 
Services (BMWFS) told her that her hire purchase agreement was settled but then said she 
owed over £570. 
What happened
Miss M entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS in November 2017. She was 
provided with payment deferrals due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and after these 
she paid an additional amount to her original monthly payments to clear the arrears. She 
explains that after the additional payments were set up, she switched banks and her direct 
debits should have been transferred across. However, while her payments for the original 
monthly amount was switched her payment for the additional amount wasnt. Miss M says 
she wasnt aware that the additional payments werent being made and BMWFS didnt 
contact her about this. 
In November 2021, Miss M says she made the final payment and was told on the phone and 
by email that had her agreement had been settled. However, she was then told she still 
owed over £570. Miss M raised a compliant and received a final response saying she owed 
the money.
BMWFS issued a final response letter in January 2022. It said that Miss M called on 24 
November 2021 to get a quote to settle her agreement and she was told she would need to 
pay £10,501 which included the balloon payment and her arrears. On 29 November Miss M 
called to see if her balloon payment had cleared and it says she was told this would take a 
couple of days. It was also confirmed that there was £578 arears that would need to be paid 
before full clearance could be given. It said the letter Miss M had received was a subject 
clearance letter which didnt confirm she had no further obligations under the agreement. It 
said Miss M needed to pay the outstanding amount. 
Our investigator said that she couldnt comment on the arrears, payment arrangement and 
credit file as this was subject to a separate complaint being investigated by BMWFS. She 
considered whether BMWFS acted fairly by asking Miss M for the outstanding amount. She 
noted that Miss M had been advised on a call of the total amount to settle the agreement 
being £10,501 (which include the arrears and the final payment) and so when the final 
payment of £9,923 was made this still meant the arrears were outstanding. She noted the 
letter Miss M had received and understood why this could be confusing but said it didnt think 
this meant the outstanding amount didnt need to be paid. 
Miss M didnt agree with our investigators view. She didnt accept that the call notes from 
BMWFS should be relied on and said the calls were recorded and so should be provided. 
She didnt think her concern about how the outstanding amount had been calculated had 
been addressed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about Miss M being required to pay the arrears amount on her agreement 
after she says she received information that the agreement was settled. Miss M has raised 
other issues about the arrears and her credit file which it has been explained are being dealt 
with separately. I note Miss Ms comments about BMWFS not providing the calls, but in this 
case, I find that I have enough information in the call notes and the other evidence provided 
to make a decision.
Miss M entered a hire purchase agreement and was required to pay monthly repayments of 
£301. Miss M made these payments until April 2020 when, due to the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic she was provided with a payment deferral. I have looked through Miss Ms 
statement of account and can see that she made payments of £1 for three months and then 
returned to her full repayment amount in August 2020. Miss M was sent a letter about her 
options for paying the £900 shortfall that had arisen as a result of the payment deferral. I can 
see from her statement of account that she started making an additional payment each 
month from October 2020 to June 2021. 
Miss M has explained that she switched banks and following this only her original payment 
amount was taken and not the additional payment. I cannot say what caused the issue with 
her payments, but the statement of account shows that Miss Ms June 2021 payments for 
both the original amount and the additional payment were returned. Following this the 
additional payment amount wasnt reinstated and so there were arrears on her account. 
BMWFS system notes show that Miss M was provided with a settlement quote in July 2021 
and a further quote and notice of arrears in October 2021 which would have alerted Miss M 
to the issue of arrears on her account. When Miss M made contact on 24 November 2021 
about settling her agreement, the call notes show that she was told the outstanding amount 
of £10,501. The final payment due under the agreement was £9,923 and so she should have 
been aware there was an arrears payment to also be made. She then made contact on 29 
November and was told the payment had been taken and she would need to call back the 
next day to see if this had cleared. The notes at this time suggest full settlement payment 
being made, this didnt confirm that that the account was settled and said that this was 
subject to the funds being cleared. Based on the information I have seen I think Miss M 
should have been reasonably aware when making her final payment of £9,923 that there 
was an amount of £578 still outstanding.
Miss M has challenged where the £578 amount comes from and has asked about interest 
being charged. I have looked through the statement of account. Offsetting the additional 
amounts Miss M paid against the arrears arising from the payments deferrals and adding to 
this amount the June 2021 payments that were returned gives a total amount owing of £578.
Based on the information I have seen, I do not find I can say BMWFS did anything wrong by 
requiring the arrears to be paid before the agreement was settled and I think Miss M was 
given information when settling her agreement to be aware of the arrears. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jane ArcherOmbudsman