DRN-2267519
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S and Miss S complain that Aviva Insurance Limited acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by declining Miss S claim under a legal expenses insurance policy. They want 
matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a legal expenses insurance policy through their household insurance 
which covered members of their household, including Miss S. Miss S wanted to bring an 
employment tribunal claim and Mr S made a claim under the policy to provide Miss S with 
legal assistance. The solicitors who advised said that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of 
success. Aviva declined the claim but told Mr S he could send further evidence for review or 
get a second opinion at his own cost (if the second opinion was supportive, Aviva would 
refund the cost).
Mr S said another law firm had been willing to act, but couldnt as it had a conflict of interest. 
He said this was evidence that the claim did have a reasonable prospect of success, and the 
panel solicitors who advised Aviva were ones hed previously had a bad experience with 
several years ago. He also felt Avivas customer service had been poor. 
Mr S complained to Aviva. Its agent said that the panel solicitor was the solicitor who had to 
act until it became clear proceedings would be issued. It said that at Mr S request the 
instruction of the panel solicitor was paused and he was asked if he wanted to pay for his 
own solicitor or continue with the panel solicitor. The agent pointed out that it had kept the 
matter under review and sent Mr S reminder emails. It said that Mr S then said he wanted to 
use a particular firm to deal with the tribunal claim, so it said it would get its own assessment 
from the panel solicitor to check the claim had reasonable prospects of success and was 
proportionate to pursue. 
In the meantime, the agents said that Mr S chosen firm confirmed it couldnt act and the 
panel solicitor asked a barrister for his view of the claim who asked for more information 
from Mr S, which was supplied. The agent was aware that the deadline to issue the claim 
was imminent and asked Mr S which firm he wanted to use as his chosen firm wouldnt act. 
The panel solicitors then advised that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success 
so the claim was declined.
The agent accepted that Mr S had wanted to talk on the phone, but explained due to home 
working caused by the pandemic, this wasnt possible due to the rules about recording and 
storing calls, particularly as they were dealing with sensitive and confidential matters. The 
target was to respond to emails within three to five working days, which was done in Mr S 
case. The agent said it had chased the panel solicitors for a response, but it wasnt 
responsible for the barrister wanting more information and needing time. 
The final position was that Aviva had relied on legal advice it had been given by a suitably 
qualified lawyer, and if Mr S wanted to challenge it, he should provide a copy of a detailed 
second legal opinion and the matter would be considered again.
Mr and Mrs S and Miss S complained to us. Mr S confirmed that he had paid a solicitor 
privately to deal with the claim, but hadnt paid for a second legal opinion. The investigators 
view was that Aviva wasnt at fault. She said that the policy required claims to have a 
reasonable prospect of success and said if the policyholder didnt agree with the legal 
assessment, they could pay for their own second opinion (and be refunded if the second 
opinion was supportive of their position). The investigator said that Aviva was entitled to rely 
on the legal advice received as it was from a suitably qualified lawyer and Mr S hadnt got a 
supportive second legal opinion. She also didnt think that Aviva had caused unnecessary 
delays, acted reasonably in using email, and had warned Mr S of the time involved in getting 
a legal opinion from the panel solicitor or an external barrister.
Mr and Mrs S and Miss S disagreed. They said the claim had now been settled. The 
investigator said this didnt show that the claim had reasonable prospects of success as 
claims were settled for several reasons. Mr S said Aviva had relied on him being able to use 
a computer to email; the investigator said that phone calls werent necessarily instant as 
those dealing with matters might need time and Mr S had shown he could use email.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to Aviva, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy says that it only covers claims with a reasonable prospect of success. This is a 
standard term in such policies. The dispute in this case is about whether Aviva acted fairly 
and reasonably in declining the claim on this basis. 
While Mr S doesnt think much of the panel solicitors, Im satisfied that they were suitably 
qualified lawyers. But more to the point, they didnt advise  an experienced specialist 
barrister gave the advice and concluded that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success. 
His advice is nine pages long, and prepared after the barrister asked for more information, 
which shows care and time was taken. Aviva isnt a law firm; insurers are entitled to rely 
upon the advice given by suitably qualified lawyers, which is what happened here. I dont 
think it was unfair or unreasonable for Aviva to rely on the opinion it received in this case, 
particularly as Mr S criticism doesnt relate to the advice given itself.
But its also relevant that Aviva told Mr S that he could get a detailed second opinion and it 
would consider it, as well as any further evidence. From the information before me, it seems 
that Mr S preferred choice of law firm couldnt act due to a conflict of interest and theres no 
detailed legal opinion from it about the claim. I noted that Mr S found another firm in mid-
June 2020, and was reminded that to be covered he needed to get this second opinion. Mr S 
didnt do so. I think Avivas position is fair and reasonable and in line with standard industry 
practice and the policy. Settlement of the claim doesnt mean that the advice was obviously 
wrong as claims are settled for many reasons not connected to the strength of a case.
Mr S complains about Avivas customer service. I can see it took about two months for the 
claim to be assessed. But I also can see Aviva emailed Mr S and had to send further emails 
seeking a response, that Mr S was told the lawyers would need time to assess the claim 
(and how much time) and he asked for the instruction to be delayed, and that the barrister 
needed more information. I dont think Aviva caused any unnecessary delay, having 
reviewed the file.Aviva responded to emails fully within a reasonable time frame in my view. And while Mr S 
wouldve liked to speak on the phone, Aviva has explained in detail why it wasnt possible at 
the time and wouldve been inappropriate as its staff were working from home due to the 
pandemic. I also dont see that any practical difference wouldve been made if Mr S had 
been able to call as it wouldnt have changed the process that needed to be taken and he 
was able to email. I also bear in mind that a pandemic was ongoing, which affected the 
number of staff potentially able to work and meant staff had to work from home. I think Aviva 
acted fairly and reasonably and its customer service was appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, Miss S and Mrs S to accept or reject my 
decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman