DRN-3341570
The complaint
Mr M says Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Shelby provided to Mr M between November 
2019 and February 2020. Mr Ms lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Loan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 09/11/2019 15/11/2019 9 £750.00 £165.12
2 09/02/2020 Sold 6 £450.00 £147.04
Our Adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. Mr M thought that Shelby had 
admitted lending irresponsibly in its response to his complaint. He said Shelby should have 
checked his spending habits by looking at his bank statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Shelby needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Shelby should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Shelby was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M thought that Shelbys response to his complaint admitted that it had lent to him 
irresponsibly. But I disagree. I can see that the letter sets out Mr Ms complaint points and 
responds to them. Shelby has further clarified this to Mr M and apologised for any confusion 
since the complaint has come to us. 
Shelby asked Mr M for information about his income and outgoings and it carried out credit 
checks. Mr M said that his monthly income for loan one was £2,500 and his monthly 
outgoings were £1,000. For loan two, he said his income was £2,400 (which Shelby adjusted 
to £1,830) and his outgoings were £1,425. So both of the loan repayments looked affordable 
for Mr M. 
From what I can see, there was nothing untoward in the credit checks that Shelby carried out 
that should have prompted further checks. I cant see that the checks showed any signs of 
financial difficulties. There were no short-term loans outstanding or defaults in the last three 
years.
Mr M thought Shelby should have checked his bank statements before approving the loans. I 
accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Shelby obtained. And Mr Ms actual financial position 
might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been 
obtained. 
But Shelby could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mr M, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mr M. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Shelby needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Shelby carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Mr Ms actual financial 
position. 
Shelby relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Mr Ms declared income and Mr M only taking two loans, 
I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman