DRN-3063244
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card from Vanquis in November 2018. It was agreed with a limit of 
£250. In May 2020, the debt was sold to a debt collection agency.
Mr B complained. He said hes given the wrong information about his income on the 
application form. He said Vanquis didnt do enough checks on his situation when they 
agreed to issue the card. He wants the debt written off, the defaults removed from his credit 
file and interest and fees refunded.
Vanquis said Mr B passed their credit checks. Mr B had told them his income was £23,920 
per annum  they could only go on the information he told them at the time. At the time of his 
application, they could see that he had one defaulted debt  but that was 44 months before. 
He had other borrowing of £2,300. So  they agreed to the card with a modest limit of £250.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Mr B had declared his income to be 
£23,920, with household income of £27,500. Vanquis could see from his credit records that 
Mr B had other debts of £2,300. There was a defaulted debt of £200  but that was in March 
2015, a long time before. Vanquis had provided information which showed that one month 
after Mr B applied for the card  in December 2018  his other debts had gone up to £5,665. 
So, it looked like Mr B problems started after the card was given to him by Vanquis. This was 
confirmed by Mr Bs credit file  which showed that he took out more borrowing in December 
2018 and into 2019. Considering the modest limit of £250, he considered that Vanquis acted 
fairly.
Mr B asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether Vanquis 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so the 
higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then fewer 
checks can be made.
In Mr Bs case, he was given a limit of £250  I consider this to be a modest amount of debt, 
and so the checks that wed expect Vanquis to have completed could be less than if he had 
a much higher limit.
Ive seen Mr Bs application  he declared he had annual income of £23,920 and household 
income of £27,500. He told us this wasnt the case  and showed us his bank statements 
which didnt show any such income. But  Vanquis could only go on what they were told at 
the time by Mr B  I dont think anything they saw would mean they shouldve asked to see 
Mr Bs bank statements or proof of income, especially for the modest limit of £250. The 
application also said Mr B lived with his parents  which suggested his outgoings were fairly 
low.
Vanquis could see he had other debts of £2,300 with seven lenders at the time. Hed had a 
default of £200  but 44 months before. So  this was OK. I can see that by December 2018, 
his other debts had increased to £5,665  and by April 2020, they were £8,100, with 23 
lenders. So  it does look as though his problems started to get much worse after he took 
the card from Vanquis. And  I cant expect Vanquis to have known that at the time of Mr Bs 
application in November 2018. 
I can see that Mr Bs problems with Vanquis started almost straight away after he was given 
the card  with missed payments and over limit charges. His debt was sold to a debt 
collection agency in May 2020. But based on what Vanquis could see of his circumstances 
in November 2018, and what Mr B told them  I dont think they lent to him irresponsibly. 
And so  I wont be asking them to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman