DRN-3488305
The complaint
C complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) erroneously blocked its debit 
card when it requested an additional card, then made further errors that delayed issue of the 
new card.
To put things right, C wants NatWest to pay it the money it says it lost as a result, amounting 
to over £30,000.
C is represented by one of its directors, Mr C.
What happened
Mr C requested an additional debit card for his business, C. He says he was given incorrect 
information about how to do so and that when he did apply for the card, NatWest instead 
cancelled his existing card then sent a new card in the wrong name when he called to 
complain. 
Mr C also says NatWest made other errors in trying to rectify the issue, which our 
investigator set out in his opinion. Mr C says the upshot of this was that his business couldnt 
buy the sales leads it relied on, so it stopped trading.
After a delay in registering Mr Cs complaint, NatWest issued its final response letter on 15 
September 2021. It apologised for the mistakes and paid £500 in compensation in 
recognition of its errors. Mr C didnt accept NatWests offer, so he brought the complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mr C had completed the debit card 
application form incorrectly and that Cs bank statements showed payments to the company 
C bought leads from had continued. So, he wasnt persuaded that NatWest should shoulder 
all of the blame, and he didnt think C had demonstrated it had lost money as a result of the 
issues C had faced. 
Mr C didnt agree, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest accepts it made mistakes when Mr C applied for an additional card, and that it 
cancelled Cs existing debit card when it shouldnt have. But it says C was only without 
access to a debit card between 7 and 10 July 2021, and it provided evidence to support 
those dates. And it doesnt accept C has evidenced its loss, or that it took reasonable steps 
to mitigate its loss.
I asked Mr C to provide a breakdown of the £30,000 loss he had claimed, and to confirm 
what steps C had taken to mitigate that loss. And I asked him to provide evidence in support, 
where possible. I pointed out that Cs bank statements showed payments to the company it 
bought sales leads from totalling £3,900 in July 2021 (i.e. the month Cs card was cancelled) 
against £4,140 in June 2021 and £5,220 in May 2021. Which, on the face of it, suggested 
there was no interruption to Cs ability to buy leads.
Mr C said Cs income dropped from an average of £89,000 in the five months before the 
card was cancelled, to £70,000 in July 2021. But he didnt provide any evidence to support 
those claims, or his claim that that reduced income resulted from NatWests errors. 
Nor did Mr C provide any evidence to show C wasnt able to buy leads without its NatWest 
debit card. And he had previously told me that Cs income had dropped from just over 
£100,000 in March 2021 to £91,000 in April/May 2021, to £70,000 in July. Which suggests 
Cs income isnt fixed and so a drop from one month to the next isnt necessarily an 
indication that external factors are at play.
I dont doubt that C was inconvenienced as a result of NatWests errors, and that it 
experienced problems as a result of not having access to its debit card. But NatWest has 
paid C £500 in recognition of the errors, and Im satisfied that is sufficient compensation for 
the inconvenience C experienced. 
Mr C has told our service about the distress he went through in resolving this, but this 
complaint is brought by C, which is a separate legal entity to Mr C. And I can only award 
compensation for inconvenience experienced by C, and not any distress its directors or 
shareholders experience.
And, if Im to award compensation for consequential losses that C claims flow from 
NatWests errors, I have to be satisfied that (a) those losses have been incurred and (b) that 
they were incurred as a result of NatWests errors. 
The evidence Ive seen doesnt demonstrate a loss. And Mr C hasnt provided any 
persuasive evidence to support his claims. With that being the case, I cant reasonably ask 
NatWest to compensate C beyond the payment it has already made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman