DRN-3767597
The complaint
Miss E and Mr Es complaint is about National House-Building Council trading as NHBCs 
handling of a claim made under their building warranty.
All references to NHBC include its appointed agents.
What happened
Miss E and Mr E own a property covered by a ten-year Buildmark policy provided by NHBC. 
The start and end dates of the policy fall between 2015 and 2025.
The crux of this complaint concerns the progression of a claim NHBC accepted under the 
Buildmark policy some years ago. The defects and damage to Miss E and Mr Es property 
also affect other properties in the row. So NHBC says investigations are required in order to 
provide a lasting and effective structural repair to all of the properties.
Miss E and Mr E say theres been delays in NHBCs handling of the claim, and that the 
repairs havent progressed in a reasonable and timely manner. They say this has impacted 
them in selling the property, including when the market was favourable, and in potential loss 
of rent. Miss E and Mr E also highlighted the disruption the claim has had on their lives.
NHBC responded to Miss E and Mr E and provided a number of final response letters in 
relation to the matter. NHBCs most recent final response considered events between 
August 2020 and February 2022. It upheld Miss E and Mr Es concerns about the handling of 
their claim and offered £1,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss E and Mr E didnt agree with NHBCs response and referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that NHBC should pay a further £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Miss E and Mr E since August 2020. Bringing the total amount of 
compensation to £2,000.
Miss E and Mr E disagreed with our investigators findings. They didnt think the 
compensation amount fairly reflected:
The distress and inconvenience caused by NHBC.
The costs of them not being able to rent the property out.
Potential problems to the property because of the delay in repairing the original 
defects.
The freelance jobs Miss E had to turn down to deal with the claim.
NHBC also disagreed with our investigators findings. It said that £1,500 compensation was 
fair and reasonable for the timescale being considered and felt that the investigator had 
taken into account issues which were outside of the scope of this complaint.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
For the purposes of my decision, Im satisfied that I only have jurisdiction to consider the 
events between NHBCs previous final response around August 2020 up to the date of its 
final response around February 2022, a period of around 18 months. Im not considering any 
ongoing issues with the claim or whats happened before or since those dates.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for 
these reasons:
Miss E and Mr E have asked for compensation linked to the failed sale of their 
property, and for being unable to rent it out. And theyve outlined the future plans 
they wouldve had, but for NHBCs delay. Ive carefully considered the information 
theyve provided here, whilst taking into account the timescales I have jurisdiction to 
look at above.
As things stood in February 2022, the claim hadnt been concluded, nor was there 
any guarantee that it would do so given the level of investigations NHBC was 
required to carry out. 
To be able to uphold this point, Id need to be persuaded that NHBCs actions were 
directly responsible for causing Miss E and Mr E a consequential loss through either 
the sale of the property or in loss of rent, as opposed to the circumstances of the 
claim itself. I say this because I cant see that Miss E and Mr Es policy covers loss of 
rent. And the policy also states, NHBC will not be liable for the following:i) Any 
loss of enjoyment, loss of use, loss of income or business opportunity, inconvenience 
or distress, or any loss arising or cost incurred (or both) only indirectly, as a result of 
the events or circumstances that led to your claim or complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence available, Im more persuaded that the 
losses Miss E and Mr E are claiming for here are predominantly to do with the events 
and circumstances of the claim, as opposed to any direct actions taken by NHBC. 
So, Im not going to hold NHBC responsible for these losses. 
I do have some sympathy with Miss E and Mr Es experience of this claim. And I can 
understand their frustration with matters that havent progressed more quickly to 
date. But I can only consider the delays and service that NHBC is directly responsible 
for here.In determining whether our investigators recommendation for compensation is fair 
Ive considered a number of factors. Ive looked at any avoidable delays in the 
timeframe set out above, and NHBCs overall service  which includes the actions of 
its agents. Ive also considered the amount of time Miss E and Mr E spent dealing 
with the various issues in proportion to the overall complexity of the claim.
I have given much thought to the level of compensation that should be paid to Miss E 
and Mr E, and I have concluded that the sum of £2,000 total recommended by the 
investigator is fair. I appreciate that Miss E and Mr E think it should be greater, and 
that NHBC think £1,500 is enough. But I must bear in mind that whilst I am 
considering an 18-month period of the claim, the longer the claim goes on (as this 
has done for some years), the more heightened and compounded the distress and 
inconvenience is going to be for the consumers until it is resolved.
Therefore, whilst I can understand everyones point of view here, calculating awards 
for distress and inconvenience isnt an exact science. So, in all the circumstances, 
and bearing in mind the general level of awards our service makes in this area, I 
consider a total of £2,000 compensation is fair and reasonable.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about National House-Building Council 
trading as NHBC and I direct it to pay Miss E and Mr E an additional £500, bringing the total 
compensation to £2,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman