DRN-2812477
The complaint
Mr N complains that Equifax Limited has incorrectly reported him as previously being subject 
of an insolvency on his credit file. He wants the entry to be corrected and compensation.
What happened
Mr N tells us that he agreed a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS) and entered a Debt 
Payment Programme (DPP) in 2017. He says that this arrangement didnt involve an 
insolvency. Mr N states that he was able to clear his debts in 2019. He says that two Credit 
Reference Agencies are correctly reporting his credit record. But Equifax is still continuing to 
report the DAS as if it was an insolvency. Mr N says that this is affecting his efforts to obtain 
a mortgage.
Equifax told us that it didnt have a section on its reports specifically for DAS. It said that the 
records regarding a DAS appeared under the Court and Insolvency Information section. 
And that the data displayed was public record information which had been supplied by the 
DAS administrator. It further explained that the court date recorded was the approval date.  
And that any potential lenders viewing this information as part of a search would be able to 
see that this is a DAS, not an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) or County Court 
Judgment. It said that this information was being reported correctly. Equifax also told us that 
the credit report supplied by Mr N when making his complaint had been prepared by a 
different business, which Ill refer to as CS. And that the lay out of a DAS with CS was 
different.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
CS was a separate business to Equifax. He didnt feel that Equifax had made an error in the 
way it reported Mr Ns credit record. And he said that when hed entered the DAS / DPP Mr 
N had accepted that his details would be put on the publicly available DAS register.
Mr N didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr N feels strongly about this situation. And I understand that having repaid 
his debts hed be anxious that his credit file properly reflected this.
Within the credit industry, there are many different businesses providing a range of services.
And theres a lot of information relating to the credit history of individuals. But each business 
has its own style of recording information. And provided that the information recorded is fair 
and accurate its a matter for a business to choose how the information is displayed.
Equifax has explained that it doesnt have a separate section for the recording of a DAS. 
And its supplied information depicting how details of Mr Ns DAS are recorded. It appears in 
a section headed Court and Insolvency Information. And alongside the entry, Mr Ns 
account is described as a Debt Arrangement Scheme. The entry also shows the account to 
have been satisfied in June 2019. 
Whilst a DAS / DPP isnt an insolvency, it is an arrangement approved by the DAS 
administrator. And when such an order is made it becomes a matter of public record. So to 
record it under a heading which lists details of court and publicly available information is, I 
consider, fair and reasonable. Based on the information provided to me, Equifax has 
reported an accurate record of whats happened.
Importantly, its also reasonable to believe that prospective lenders are likely to be familiar 
with the different methods of reporting of the various Credit Reference Agencies. And as the 
Equifax record clearly identifies his arrangement as a DAS, its unlikely a lender would be 
misled simply by the section heading under which it was included.
The screen shot which Ive seen showing Mr Ns DAS recorded as an IVA  which is a type 
of insolvency - was produced by CS. I understand that there is a known issue about the way 
in which CS records a DAS. But this complaint relates to Equifax. And Im only able to look 
at the actions of Equifax. If Mr N considers that another business is recording his information 
inaccurately it would be necessary for him to pursue the matter with that business.
In summary, I find that the way in which Equifax has recorded the information about Mr Ns 
DAS is fair and accurate. And I shant ask it to do anything else. Accordingly, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman