DRN-4356288
The complaint
Mrs E complains that J D Williams & Company Limited, trading as Fashion World (J D 
Williams), lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs E applied for a shopping account with J D Williams in September 1996. Its not clear 
what her credit limit was at the time, but we know that in March 2009 it was £2,600. In June 
2009 it was increased to £3,000 and then to £3,500 in September 2014.
Mrs E complained to J D Williams that the lending had been unaffordable for her.
J D Williams explained that it didnt have any information available earlier than March 2009. 
But it had reviewed the lending decisions it made on Mrs Es account from that point 
onwards. It upheld Mrs Es complaint in relation to the June 2009 and September 2014 credit 
limit increases. It refunded Mrs E the interest and charges which had been applied to 
balances above £2,600.
Mrs E was not satisfied with the outcome of her complaint, so she brought it to this service. 
Our investigator thought that J D Williamss offer was fair, but Mrs E disagreed.
 
Our investigator looked at her case again but didnt agree with Mrs E.
As Mrs E didnt agree with the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Es complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why Ive 
reached this conclusion.
This service only has the power to review complaints about this type of lending where the 
lending decision was made on or after 6 April 2007. That is the date when this type of 
consumer credit became subject to this dispute resolution process. So, I can only look at the 
decisions made by J D Williams after 6 April 2007. And J D Williams has already agreed to 
uphold Mrs Es complaint about unaffordable lending from June 2009 when it was increased 
from £2,600. 
 
This means I only need to review the merits of any lending decisions made before that.
In this case, I dont know what decisions were made between when the account became 
regulated in April 2007 and the beginning of records held by J W Williams in March 2009. 
And Mrs E hasnt been able to provide evidence that any lending decision was made 
between those dates, either. So, I cant safely or fairly say that J D Williams did anything 
wrong at a point when its activities were regulated before March 2009. 
Mrs Es substantive complaint, though, is about the calculation of the redress J D Williams 
should pay in relation to the complaint that it had already upheld before Mrs E brought her 
complaint to this service.
 
Mrs E says that she was making large payments each month and had been paying at least 
£100 in interest each month. She is not satisfied that the redress paid by J D Williams 
reflects her actual loss.
 
It may help if I explain our approach to redress. When a complaint is upheld this service tries 
to put a consumer back in the same position they would have been if the act complained 
about hadnt happened.
 
In this case, the effect of the increase in Mrs Es credit limit increase in June 2009 was to 
provide her with £400 more credit. And in September 2014 it was increased again by a 
further £500. The total at that point was £3,500. In total, the increases complained about 
resulted in Mrs Es credit limit increasing from £2,600 to £3,500. 
This means that J D Williams only has to refund interest and charges it imposed on balances 
which Mrs E built up above £2,600. This is because I have not been able to fairly say that 
any lending decisions up to that point were inappropriate or unfair. 
So, while I appreciate that Mrs E has been (and is still) paying large amounts in interest and 
charges, those charges only relate to balances incurred up to the limit of £2,600.
Having reviewed J D Williams approach to redress carefully, I am satisfied that it has acted 
fairly. So, I dont award Mrs E any more compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mrs Es complaint. It follows that J D 
Williams & Company Limited does not have to do anything further, having already paid 
appropriate compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman