DRN-3109862
The complaint
Mrs O complains about a lifetime mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC, which was 
transferred into her name after her mother died in 1997. She says the mortgage should 
never have been put into her name as she was too young for this type of mortgage, she 
didnt know what was happening, and the debt has now increased significantly.
What happened
In 1989, Mrs Os late mother took out an equity release  or lifetime  mortgage of £20,000 
with Town & Country Building Society, which later merged with Woolwich, and then 
Barclays.
Mrs Os mother died in 1997. Mrs O is the personal representative of her mothers estate, 
and she decided to live in the property the mortgage was secured against. In 1998, title to 
the property was transferred into her name, and so was the mortgage. Mrs O says she knew 
the mortgage balance was around £36,000 at that time and that she was to repay it.
By 2019, the mortgage balance had increased to over £100,000. Mrs O complained and 
asked how it had got that high. She said she had paid Barclays more than the original 
£36,000 and shouldnt be asked to pay any more.
Barclays said the mortgage had been transferred to Mrs O in 1998, and she was too late to 
complain about it now, more than 20 years later.
Our investigator found Mrs O wasnt too late to complain, because he had seen copies of 
letters from 2003 which showed she had complained then but hadnt been sent a final 
response letter telling her she could refer her complaint to this service. Barclays accepted 
that, but said the complaint should be dismissed without further consideration, because it no 
longer holds records going back as far as the 1990s.
The investigator went on to consider the complaint, and concluded that Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong. He thought Mrs O knew she was taking on the property and the mortgage, 
and Barclays had been clear that she needed to make arrangements to pay back the debt  
but she hadnt paid anything towards it until 2010.
Mrs O didnt accept that conclusion. She thought the investigator had taken the banks side, 
and said she had wanted to make payments but the mortgage statements said none were 
required.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. 
My provisional findings were as follows:
First of all, to be clear, I agree with our investigator that this case does fall within our 
jurisdiction to consider. The documents Ive seen show that Mrs O complained to Barclays in 
2003  which was within six years of the mortgage being put into her name.
Secondly, Ill deal with Barclays argument that I should dismiss this complaint. While I 
wouldnt expect Barclays necessarily to have all relevant documents from the 1980s and 
1990s, the fact that it doesnt have them doesnt mean its appropriate for me to dismiss this 
complaint without further consideration. Im satisfied that there is enough information and 
evidence available for me to make a fair determination in this case, and doing so doesnt 
impair this services effective operation.
I turn now to the facts of the complaint. This is an unusual case. What should have 
happened following Mrs Os mothers death was repayment of the lifetime mortgage  by 
way of the proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property, money in the estate, or other 
means. However, Mrs O wanted to keep the property, and needed to take a mortgage in her 
own name in order to do so.
Mrs O was 34 years old in 1998. Lifetime mortgages are generally only available to 
borrowers over the age of 55. This is because  as with the Town & Country mortgage here 
 interest rolls up over time and no payments have to be made. This means the mortgage 
debt increases over time. This type of mortgage isnt usually the most suitable arrangement 
for younger borrowers.
I consider that this lifetime mortgage should never have been transferred into Mrs Os name, 
and it shouldnt then have been allowed to continue to run for more than 20 years.
Barclays says Mrs O complained in 2003 and its clear she knew then that something was 
wrong. I agree, and I think she was aware of the situation with the mortgage. I think she 
knew she was taking on both the property and the mortgage in 1998. Ive seen a copy of the 
transfer of title, which she signed, witnessed by her solicitors, in 1998. The transfer 
document said she was taking on the mortgage as if she had been the original Mortgagor.
There is nothing to indicate that any other mortgage with different terms was agreed later, 
statements were sent to Mrs O every year setting out the position of the mortgage and the 
increasing balance, and Barclays told Mrs O how the mortgage stood in response to her 
complaint in 2003.
Mrs O accepts she knew there was a problem and says she has tried to sort out the 
mortgage over the years, but  other than the 2003 complaint and a record from Barclays of 
an enquiry about the balance in 2005  Ive seen little evidence of that until she made this 
complaint in 2019.
Barclays has been able to provide statements going back to 2005. They show no payments 
were made to the mortgage between January 2005 and August 2010. Barclays 2003 letters 
indicate no payments to the mortgage were being made at that time either. I think it most 
likely that Mrs O didnt pay anything until 2010  which is when the loan-to-value ratio 
exceeded 75% and Barclays wrote to her and formally asked her for payments.
Until 2010, Barclays had sent letters each year saying Mrs O didnt need to pay anything. 
Since 2010, until she complained, Mrs O tried to keep up with the monthly interest payments 
 although she couldnt really afford to do so and had to agree reduced payments with 
Barclays.
In the circumstances, and faced with an increasing mortgage debt to which no payments 
were being made for more than ten years, I think Mrs O could have been more proactive. But the bank was the expert here, and I think its clear from Barclays records that it also 
knew something was wrong but it took no corrective action.
Barclays letter to Mrs O dated 29 December 2003 said: The original arrangement made by 
[Mrs Os late mother] cannot continue. It said Mrs O should begin making payments to 
cover at least the monthly interest, which at the time was around £340. But it didnt follow 
this up or explain that Mrs O should look into applying for a mortgage on standard terms. 
Instead, it sent annual statements saying no payments were required.
Barclays records show it also identified in 2007 that the mortgage should never have been 
transferred to Mrs O. But all it did was write to Mrs O saying she didnt need to pay anything 
until the mortgage balance reached 75% of the value of the property.
I think it should have been reasonably foreseeable to Barclays what would happen if it 
allowed things to carry on as they were: interest would continue to roll up and erode the 
equity in the property. That is, of course, what happened. The other important point is that 
the mortgage should never have been transferred into Mrs Os name on the same terms in 
the first place  and Barclays should have known that.
So, overall, I find that Barclays made mistakes and Mrs O should have been more proactive. 
I need to decide a fair way to put things right in the particular circumstances of this case.
Our usual approach where a mortgage is arranged on the wrong basis and this results in the 
borrower not having paid enough is to put the borrower in the position they would have been 
in had the mortgage been arranged correctly. We generally disregard any past savings the 
borrower has made because theyve made lower  or no  monthly payments. We adjust 
that approach if we consider that the borrower knew  or should reasonably have known  
about the problem.
Here, the mortgage was set up wrongly in 1998, but Mrs O knew about it. I consider a fair 
outcome is for Barclays and Mrs O to share responsibility for the resulting impact on the 
mortgage balance.
Im mindful that the mortgage is very likely to have been on a higher interest rate than it 
would have been had it been on standard terms for more than 20 years. I also have in mind 
that Mrs O has made payments to the mortgage between 2010 and 2019. While she has 
struggled at times to maintain the monthly payments of more than £400 which Barclays 
asked her for, if the £36,000 mortgage had been taken in 1998 on a standard residential 
basis, on capital and interest repayment terms, over a fairly standard term of 25 years, the 
monthly payments are likely to have been relatively affordable  even bearing in mind that 
mortgage interest rates in the late 1990s were generally much higher than they are now. I 
see no particular reason why this might not have been an option for Mrs O, it wasnt 
explored in later years when Barclays clearly knew about the problem, and I think its an 
appropriate basis on which to re-work this mortgage.
In all the circumstances, my provisional conclusion is that Barclays should re-work the 
mortgage as set out below.
Putting things right
I propose to require that Barclays re-work the mortgage as though it had been on Barclays 
standard variable interest rate from the date it was transferred into Mrs Os name in 1998, on 
a 25-year term, and paid on a capital and interest repayment basis.In re-working the mortgage in this way, Barclays should calculate what the current mortgage 
balance would be if Mrs O had made the correct payment each month, and write off 50% of 
any capital shortfall.
If re-working the mortgage in this way means that Mrs O has overpaid, Barclays should 
refund those overpayments to her, plus simple interest at an annual rate of 8%, from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
If Mrs O is entitled to receive interest as above, and Barclays deducts tax from that element 
of my proposed award, it should provide Mrs O with a tax deduction certificate so that she 
can claim the tax back from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I invited Mrs O and Barclays to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted 
me to consider before making my final decision.
Mrs O said she had provided all the information she had and she had no more to add. 
Barclays asked for more time to reply so it could do some calculations. Despite an extension 
of time  which has now expired  and reminders, it didnt provide any further response.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has said they disagree with my provisional decision, so I confirm that decision 
and require Barclays to put things right as set out below.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
- re-work the mortgage as though it had been on Barclays standard variable interest rate 
from the date it was transferred into Mrs Os name in 1998, on a 25-year term, and paid 
on a capital and interest repayment basis;
- in re-working the mortgage in this way, Barclays should calculate what the current 
mortgage balance would be if Mrs O had made the correct payment each month, and 
write off 50% of any capital shortfall;
- if re-working the mortgage in this way means that Mrs O has overpaid, Barclays should 
refund those overpayments to her, plus simple interest at an annual rate of 8%, from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
- if Mrs O is entitled to receive interest as above, and Barclays deducts tax from that 
element of my award, it should provide Mrs O with a tax deduction certificate so that she 
can claim the tax back from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021. 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman