DRN-4512162
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled her motor 
insurance policy.
Advantage is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Advantage has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In December 2022, Mrs K renewed her motor insurance policy with Advantage. Shortly after, 
Mrs K contacted Advantage regarding incorrect information on her policy which was causing 
her to be charged a higher premium. She says her monthly payments were put on hold 
during the complaint process to stop her overpaying any further. 
Mrs Ks monthly instalments were reduced due to her previously overpaying on the policy. 
However, in mid-2023 Mrs K noticed that not all of the details had been rectified, so she 
contacted the complaint handler who had dealt with her complaint. 
Mrs K says the complaint handler sent her an email saying she would get back to her on 1 
August 2023. However, she didnt hear back. Advantage wrote to Mrs K informing her that 
her direct debit payment for July hadnt gone through. It sent her a further notification saying 
the policy would be cancelled if she didnt make the payment. 
Mrs K emailed Advantage and said she had frozen that months payment until the issue was 
resolved. She said that despite proving the named driver on her policy had a non-fault 
accident, it was still showing as a fault accident. Mrs K sent some further emails chasing for 
a response. 
Nine days after its previous notification, Advantage told Mrs K that her policy had been 
cancelled. Mrs K sent further emails to Advantage. She didnt think her policy should have 
been cancelled when she had an ongoing complaint.
Advantage said the previous handler had explained that her recalculated premiums were to 
reduce Mrs Ks direct debits in February 2023. It said her policy had been correctly cancelled 
as her payment had not been made. There had been a number of issues with payments 
since her policy had first started, so it was unable to reinstate it. Advantage apologised that 
the previous complaint handler had not contacted Mrs K as promised. It paid Mrs K £50 to 
compensate her for not providing her the service it should have.
Mrs K remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns. Shortly after 
bringing her complaint to us, she told us that the named driver on the policy had been 
stopped by the police for driving without insurance. Mrs Ks car was impounded, and she 
had to pay for it to be released as well as paying for impound release insurance. She was 
also concerned that the named driver would be getting points on his licence that would 
impact his career if they werent successful in appealing the polices decision.
After our investigator contacted Advantage, it said it had recalculated Mrs Ks premiums to 
take into account that the named driver was non-fault, and she was due a refund of £109.67. 
Our investigator thought Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld in part. She thought there was 
some poor service in that the complaint handler didnt respond to Mrs Ks emails. But she 
thought Mrs K could have done more to try to resolve the issue with Advantage. She didnt 
think Advantage had cancelled Mrs Ks policy unfairly or unreasonably. She also thought  
Mrs K was aware that her vehicle was no longer insured when the named driver was caught 
by the police. She recommended Advantage pay Mrs K a total of £200 (including the £150 it 
had already paid) to compensate her for poor service. She also recommended that 
Advantage refund Mrs K the £109.67 it owed her with 8% simple interest from the date     
Mrs K had notified it the error had not been corrected.
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators outcome. She said shed emailed Advantage several 
times after it had initially sent the notice of cancellation explaining that the matter was with 
the complaints department. Shed received emails saying someone would respond within 
five days, but no one did. She wasnt able to call as she was abroad.
Mrs K said when shed sent her initial complaint in December 2022, shed told Advantage 
shed paused her payments until the matter was rectified.  It had sent her a notice of 
cancellation, but it had put a stop to this after shed emailed it. She said the protocol was not 
followed in the same way on this occasion. 
Mrs K said she wanted Advantage to reinstate her policy and credit the overpayments and 
she would commence monthly payments. 
Mrs K also commented that the overpayment credit would have covered the monthly 
payments for July and August 2023. She said the policy should not have been cancelled at 
all and the payments going forward would have been lower than before. 
As Mrs K disagrees with our investigators outcome, her complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
The policys terms and conditions say:
Any instalment agreed under a Credit Agreement must be paid on time. If an instalment isnt 
received by the date its due, we, on behalf of your Insurer, will give at least seven days 
notice of cancellation in writing to the last known address that we have on file by first class 
post or email. The Policy will end after the seven days notice runs out.
The policy renewal documents from December 2022 show monthly instalments of £104.34 a 
month. On 23 January 2023, Advantage sent Mrs K a letter informing her that her car 
insurance had been changed. Any claims/incidents for Mrs K had been changed from yes 
to no and two accidents for Mrs K had been removed from the policy. 
Advantage has provided a copy of an updated payment schedule from April 2023, showing 
Mrs K was required to pay £69.54 a month from April to November 2023. Its also sent us a 
screenshot showing that Mrs K was up to date with these instalments until June 2023. However, the direct debit payment due on 28 July was rejected by Mrs Ks bank. It was also 
rejected when Advantage attempted to call for it again on 7 August 2023.
Mrs K says she contacted Advantage on 23 July 2023 and pointed out that she was still 
overpaying her insurance. She says the complaint handler who had dealt with her complaint 
in late 2022 / early 2023 told her she would get back to her on 1 August 2023. Mrs K says 
she told the complaint handler she would be holding payments like shed done before to 
ensure she did not overpay. 
I can see that Advantage wrote to Mrs K on 31 July 2023, to inform her that her last direct 
debit hadnt gone through. It said it would make further attempts to take the payment but if it 
still hadnt been able to take it by 16 August 2023, it would cancel her policy.
On 8 August 2023, Advantage sent Mrs K another letter and email saying it had still not 
received the payment.  It said: Please dont ignore this letter or your policy may be 
cancelled. It said it would try to take the payment from the card it had on file for Mrs K on 
13 August. If it still hadnt been able to take payment by 16 August 2023, her policy would be 
cancelled. Mrs K was also given a phone number to call if she was worried about paying. 
Mrs K has provided copies of emails she sent in response to Advantages notifications on 8, 
9 and 13 August 2023. She said shed frozen that months payment until the issue was 
resolved as she didnt want to keep overpaying. She said that despite proving the named 
driver had a non-fault accident it was still showing as a fault accident on her policy.
On 17 August 2023, Advantage informed Mrs K that it had cancelled her policy.
Mrs K feels its unfair that Advantage cancelled her policy when it hadnt addressed her 
concern that she was overpaying her motor insurance. She says she wasnt able to call 
Advantage to discuss the matter because she was abroad. But she appears to have made a 
conscious decision to withhold her payment. And I havent seen any evidence to show that 
Advantage agreed Mrs K could stop paying her instalments while it was looking into her 
concerns. 
Mrs K has commented that the credit due from Advantage amending the policy would have 
covered the missed payment. However, the policy hadnt been amended when Advantage 
cancelled her policy. The policys terms and conditions required Mrs K to make payments in 
line with her instalments. So, she needed to keep paying the instalment amounts to avoid 
the policy being cancelled. 
Mrs K has confirmed receipt of two notifications from Advantage which clearly explained 
what would happen if she didnt pay the payment that was due. It also gave her more than 
seven days notice of its intention to cancel the policy if it didnt receive the payment in time. 
So, Im satisfied that Advantages decision was fair and in line with the policys terms and 
conditions.
Mrs K says she was unaware that the policy had been cancelled when the named driver was 
caught driving without insurance. She says she was led to believe that while she referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman service, the policy would stay live as a decision had 
not yet been made.
However, I can see that Advantage notified Mrs K that it had cancelled her insurance on 17 
August 2023. And Mrs K responded to this on 18 August 2023, saying she thought it was 
unfair that her policy had been cancelled. Moreover, when Mrs K referred her complaint to our service in early September 2023, she 
provided a copy of Advantages response to her complaint dated 31 August 2023. This letter 
confirms that the policy had been cancelled and said Advantage was unable to reinstate it. 
On the complaint form she submitted to us Mrs K says shed had to pay for public transport, 
taxis and temporary insurance. So, Im satisfied that Mrs K was aware that her policy had 
been cancelled when the named driver was caught driving without insurance on 4 October 
2023. 
Mrs K has provided a copy of an email she sent to Advantage on 24 January 2023, with a 
screenshot of an email from another insurance company with the same date. The email from 
the other insurance company says the incident the named driver was involved with in May 
2020 had been closed as non-fault. 
Advantage doesnt appear to have amended Mrs Ks policy to reflect this information at the 
time. However, it says that Mrs K is due a refund of £109.67 because of this. I think it would 
be fair for Advantage to pay Mrs K this amount plus 8% simple interest per year calculated 
from 24 January 2023 until the date the refund is paid. 
Advantage has acknowledged that its communication with Mrs K has been poor, and it 
should have responded to her emails. Advantage should also have amended Mrs Ks 
premium when she first notified it that the incident the named driver was involved in had 
been closed as non-fault. Advantage has accepted our investigators recommendation to pay 
Mrs K a total of £200 for distress and inconvenience. And I think this is reasonable. As its 
already paid Mrs K £50, it should pay her a further £150.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mrs K who I understand has been dealing with 
some extremely difficult circumstances including a bereavement. However, Im satisfied that 
Advantage acted in line with the policys terms and conditions when it cancelled her policy. It 
also made her aware of the cancellation, so I cant say its responsible for the named driver 
being caught driving without insurance. 
Putting things right
Advantage should:
Refund the £109.67 due as a result of the policy amendment and
Add interest to the above at 8% simple per year* from 24 January 2023 until the date 
the refund is paid.
Pay Mrs K £150 for distress and inconvenience.
*If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs K a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman