DRN-4393037
The complaint
Mr P complains British Gas Insurance Limited caused water damage to his property 
following a claim for a blocked drain under a HomeCare insurance policy. 
Reference to British Gas include their agents. 
What happened
In November 2022, British Gas attended Mr Ps property under his HomeCare policy. Mr P 
had reported the bath and basin were draining water slowly  leaving standing water. An 
engineer unblocked an external hopper and arranged for a plumber to attend to leaks 
causing internal damage to the kitchen below. The plumber arrived and found the bath waste 
pipe was disconnected, so they carried out repairs. 
Mr P says the first engineer arrived at 9:15am and carried out work in the bathroom using 
equipment. He says the engineer then went downstairs to look at pipework, and the water 
leak was found. After this, Mr P says the engineer checked the hopper outside, saw it was 
blocked, and as they didnt have ladders, they left to get these and returned to clear the 
blockage. 
Mr P says no water damage was present prior to the engineers visit, and what he reported 
initially to British Gas supports this. He complained to British Gas about the damage caused. 
British Gas engineer denied liability, but British Gas decided to overturn this decision based 
on the evidence available. However, British Gas changed this decision and decided not to 
cover the water damage, but paid Mr P £100 compensation for giving him conflicting 
information. They also say they havent collected two excess payments from him. Mr P 
remained unhappy, so he approached our Service for an impartial review. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought British Gas more likely 
than not caused the leak. Therefore, he recommended they cover the water damage repairs, 
and pay Mr P a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
British Gas didnt agree. They said, broadly, that: 
Their engineer had no reason to check the kitchen (where damage occurred) prior to 
removing debris from the hopper. 
The root cause of slow draining was the result of the blockage, and once this was 
removed, water escaped, causing the damage. 
Photos show water staining and ceiling cracking  and grout and sealant in the 
bathroom was in poor condition. The water mark on the ceiling was small, which 
supports water only escaped once the blockage was removed. And water damage 
seen around the door is excessive, which they suggest has been occurring overtime. 
Debris in the hopper could have travelled upwards causing the bath waste pipe to 
become disconnected. 
Mr P could have caused the bath waste pipe to become disconnected when trying to 
resolve the draining problem prior to contacting British Gas. 
These points didnt change the investigators view. He responded to say, broadly, that: 
Mr P hadnt reported water damage when raising a claim with British Gas, nor does 
the engineers report confirm this occurred prior to them commencing works. 
The bath and basin were said to be draining slowly  that was the reason Mr P 
contacted British Gas. So, he wasnt persuaded the bath waste pipe was 
disconnected prior to the engineers visit. If it was, its unlikely standing water would 
have been a problem. 
He wasnt persuaded stones/debris travelled up a vertical pipe and this resulted in 
the pipe becoming disconnected. 
He also looked at the time stamp on photos taken by the engineer which suggested 
these were taken at the end of their visit  after works had taken place. 
As British Gas didnt agree, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a finely balanced dispute involving conflicting opinions on the likely cause of water 
damage. What I must decide is whether Im persuaded on balance that damage occurred as 
Mr Ps described or is it more likely due to the reasons British Gas put forward. 
British Gas say the root cause of the standing water was a blocked hopper. And once the 
blockage was removed and normal water flow was returned, water leaking will find its 
easiest way out as it did in this case. The blockage masked the disconnected waste pipe 
problem and once the hopper was unblocked, fresh water escaped. This suggests British 
Gas considers the waste pipe was detached prior to their visit. They also say Mr P could 
have caused this when attempting to locate the problem prior to contacting them. 
If that was the case, and the waste pipe was detached prior to British Gas attending, it 
seems unlikely Mr P would have been experiencing standing water in the bath. So, Im not 
persuaded the evidence supports the waste pipe was detached prior to British Gas visit. 
British Gas also say debris/stones in the hopper could have travelled up the external pipe 
causing the waste pipe to become attached. But I find it unlikely debris travelled vertically up 
the pipe on the side of the property and caused the problem. 
The engineer started works in the bathroom. Mr P says the engineer then went downstairs 
and told him water was leaking  which Mr P described as pouring water. And this occurred 
prior to the engineer removing the blockage in the hopper. Ive found Mr Ps testimony to be 
both plausible and consistent throughout. I also note the engineer had to go and get ladders 
during the visit because they didnt have any with them when they arrived. And time stamps 
on photos of the damage show these were taken over an hour after the engineer first 
arrived. These photos in my view do not support damage was already occurring prior to 
them starting works  or that its more likely than not damage only happened after the hopper 
was unblocked. 
Ive kept in mind British Gas initially disagreed with the engineers decision not to accept 
liability. They communicated this to Mr P after reviewing the evidence from all parties. 
However, they later overturned their decision and didnt accept responsibility for the resultant 
damage which Im not satisfied on balance was fair and reasonable. 
I note British Gas say some damage seen in photos should be considered as pre-existing. Namely, the damage around the kitchen door. But their engineer reported a water leak 
coming from the bathroom on the ceiling and down the walls. This is consistent with the 
damage Mr P is claiming for, so Im not persuaded the evidence supports damage was pre-
existing. 
All things considered  Im not satisfied British Gas acted fairly and reasonably when not 
accepting responsibility for the damage caused. I find it more likely than not that damage 
occurred in the way Mr P described  and a leak wasnt present prior to British Gas 
attending and undertaking works. Therefore, it follows, Ill be directing British Gas to put 
matters right for Mr P. 
Putting things right
British Gas must cover the resultant water damage to Mr Ps property as the result of the 
water leak from the bath waste pipe. British Gas should either arrange the repairs or work 
with Mr P to settle the reasonable costs of repairs by his own contractors. 
I acknowledge British Gas paid Mr P £100 compensation for providing conflicting information 
over liability. But Mr Ps been living with a partially damaged kitchen I think British Gas ought 
to have put right  having initially told him they would based on the evidence available at that 
time. Therefore, I find the £200 compensation in total our investigator recommended for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused Mr P to be fair, reasonable, and 
proportionate in all the circumstances. So, British Gas must also pay Mr P a further £100 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I uphold the complaint. I now require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to put matters right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman