DRN-3160084
The complaint
Mr G holds a joint account with Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds Bank) has refused to refund 
payments Mr G made to a company I will refer to as Company T in this decision.  Mr G says 
Company T was not a legitimate investment trading firm.  He argues that they operated a 
scam which resulted in him losing his money.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
Mr G made several payments to Company T.  He used his Lloyds Bank Visa debit card to 
make these payments (linked to a joint account held with Mrs G).  In short, Mr G says he is a 
victim of a multi-layered scam operation orchestrated by Company T whereby he lost his 
funds.  He has told our service, amongst other things, All the activities conducted by 
[Company T] were fraudulent, manipulative and pushy sales techniques by the company 
representatives took advantage of my inexperience trading. 
Mr G asked Lloyds Bank to try to recover his money.  As this did not happen, he raised a 
complaint which he also referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  He thought that 
Lloyds Bank declining to pursue a chargeback where there were no reasonable prospects of 
success  was neither an unfair or unreasonable exercise of its discretion.  He also 
considered that Company T appeared to be a legitimate business, and whilst it may have 
made a bad bargain, they were operating at the time with authorisation from the Australian 
Securities & Investments Commission (ASIC) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  
Therefore, the investigator said he could not see that Lloyds Bank could have prevented Mr 
Gs losses with the available evidence it had at the time.  For these reasons, he did not ask 
Lloyds Bank to make a refund.
Mr G did not accept our investigators findings.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr G for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time.  This is 
because they were made by Mr G using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by Lloyds Bank.  These, therefore, must be regarded as authorised payments.  This is 
important because, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of Mr and 
Mrs Gs bank account, they are presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.  But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not constitute 
unauthorised investment advice.
So, the first question I need to consider is whether Company T were fraudsters.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as binary options is in fact a scam.  
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses.
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading.  However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).
In simpler terms, some platforms/merchants may have used sales and promotional methods 
that could be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but 
this does not always amount to fraud.
When considering this for Mr Gs case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad.  
Ive searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators.  And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in 
place to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially 
being fraudulent.
Upon checking both of these, it is my understanding that Company T have no adverse 
information reported about them.  Indeed, my own research has not resulted in any credible 
information to show they were fraudulent.  
Rather, from what I have found, Company T were regulated during the time the payments 
concerned were made.  I note our investigator thought Company T were regulated by both 
the FCA and ASIC.  However, having considered this, I am satisfied that Company T were 
only regulated by the ASIC.  I must therefore take into account that there is strong evidence here  particularly because there are no regulator warnings that were published at the 
material time  that Company T had not been identified as a fraudulent company when the 
payments were made.  
I do not shy away from the fact Mr G says he has found negative reviews online about 
Company T.  However, whilst I acknowledge this could be seen as circumstantial evidence 
that helps paint an overall picture of Company T  I am not persuaded that it is sufficient 
evidence of fraud.  I say this because I must place weight on credible evidence  for 
example, warnings about companies placed on IOSCOs Alerts Portal and/or those 
published on the FCA website.  In Mr Gs case, there are no such warnings about Company 
T.  Moreover, as I have mentioned, they were regulated by the ASIC at the time.
Therefore, I must follow the evidence before me and, essentially, I have seen no credible 
evidence to persuade me with any degree of certainty that Company T were operating a 
scam.  So, taking everything into consideration, Im not persuaded that Company T were in 
fact a fraudulent company.
Finally, some banks may now choose not to allow transactions such as those Mr G made, 
because of the risks involved.  But the fact remains that this was not an illegal activity, and 
many customers now demand faster payments out of their account  which the regulations 
are designed to facilitate. 
As explained previously, Lloyds Banks duty is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams; 
it is not to give investment advice or protect consumers from bad bargains.  Ultimately, Mr G 
paid a legitimate company.  To that end, I cannot safely conclude that Lloyds Bank acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about Mr Gs payments before 
they were let go.  It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman