DRN-3684769
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are business partners. They complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC is unfairly 
charging them higher monthly payments on their Bounce Back Loan than was agreed at the 
outset.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out a Bounce Back Loan of £40,000 with Barclays in May 2020. 
Mr and Mrs J say they expected monthly payments to be £666.67, as that was the figure 
quoted in the loan agreement and other correspondence from the bank. But when payments 
began to be collected by Direct Debit in June 2021, the amount was higher  at around 
£750.
When Mr J complained, Barclays explained that the £666.67 was the amount of capital that 
needed to be repaid each month  and that there was an additional amount on top of that to 
cover the interest. It accepted that an initial letter confirming the Direct Debit instruction had 
incorrectly stated that the payment would be £666.67, but said that other correspondence  
including the loan agreement  stated that the monthly payment would be £666.67 plus 
interest. 
Mr J remained unhappy and asked us to look into things. He thought Barclays was asking for 
a higher amount than was initially advised and didnt think this was fair. He explained that 
the partnership had based its calculations on the £666.67 quoted in the agreement when 
planning their finances to survive and rebuild during the coronavirus pandemic. So he 
wanted Barclays to honour this payment amount.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint, but didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, he thought Barclays had done enough to explain that interest would be charged 
on top of the £666.67 capital repayment. So he didnt think it would be fair to ask Barclays to 
forego the interest payments, as Mr J was seeking. 
Mr J didnt accept our investigators view, primarily on the basis that the Direct Debit 
confirmation letter had quoted the instalment amount as £666.67 with no mention of any 
additional amount for interest being due. So with no resolution, the matter was passed to me 
to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I intended to uphold the complaint 
and how I thought Barclays should put things right. I said:
Id expect Barclays to have provided Mr and Mrs J with clear information about the 
Bounce Back Loan before they were bound by its terms, so that they could make an 
informed decision as to whether they wished to proceed. This ought to have included 
the amount of the repayments theyd be required to make.
This would typically be set out in the loan agreement. With regard to the payments, Mr 
and Mrs Js loan agreement said:
Starting 13 months after the date of first drawdown, the Borrower will repay 
the capital by making:
60 instalments of £666.67 payable monthly.
In addition, at the same time as each monthly repayment of capital, the 
Borrower shall also pay the interest that has accrued on the account at that 
time. The interest amount will reduce over the life of the loan as the capital 
is repaid.
On the one hand, then, I think it was clear that Mr and Mrs J would be paying more 
than just the £666.67 with a variable amount of interest being due. And Barclays is 
acting in accordance with the terms of the agreement in requiring Mr and Mrs J to pay 
interest on top of their capital repayments. On the other, there was no mention of what 
this amount would be. Ive not seen that Barclays advised Mr and Mrs J of the total 
instalment amount that theyd be expected to pay at any point prior to them taking out 
the loan, or indeed prior to the first payment being taken  as I would expect it to have 
done.
This shortcoming was further compounded by an error in the letter that Barclays sent 
Mr and Mrs J when subsequently confirming the Direct Debit had been set up. This 
said that the instalment amount would be £666.67  with no mention of any additional 
amount for the interest.
Taking all of this into account, I think Barclays could and should have done more to 
inform Mr and Mrs J as to the amount of the monthly payments theyd have to make. 
So Ive gone on to consider how Barclays should put things right.
Our general approach to compensation is to put the parties back in the position they 
would be in if the error hadnt occurred. So here, the question is whether Mr and Mrs J 
would be in a different position if theyd known the correct instalment amount prior to 
entering into the agreement. I dont think they would be. Mr J has accepted, quite 
honestly, that he and Mrs J would still have gone ahead with the loan even with 
knowledge of the higher instalment amount. So I dont think theyre any worse off as a 
result of Barclays errors  as theyve got the loan they wanted, and theyre paying the 
amount that would always have been due. 
It follows that I dont think it would be fair to bind Barclays to the £666.67 figure it 
quoted, with no entitlement to require the additional interest amount on top. And as 
noted above, the terms of the loan agreement were clear in that an additional interest 
amount would always be payable on top of the £666.67  so the bank is acting in 
accordance with the contract in the amounts its collecting from Mr and Mrs J. I dont 
think the Direct Debit confirmation letter could be said to supersede or override that 
agreement.
I do, though, think this matter has caused Mr and Mrs J some understandable concern 
and avoidable inconvenience. They had planned their business finances around the 
£666.67 figure and, given what Ive said above, did so with some justification. While 
theyve confirmed that they havent suffered a financial loss in reliance on this figure, 
theyve had to alter their projections and are faced with a higher payment  and less 
profit and therefore earnings  than theyd anticipated. Theyve also spent time and trouble in trying to clarify the position with Barclays, which could all have been avoided 
if the bank had provided adequate information at the outset.
Taking all of this into account, and subject to any further information I receive in 
response to this provisional decision, I think it would be fair for Barclays to pay Mr and 
Mrs J compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the banks 
errors.
Both parties responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision, albeit that Mr J 
said he still thought Barclays should be bound by the contents of its Direct Debit confirmation 
letter as it was held out to be an agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new information or evidence for me to consider, Ive not seen 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
I recognise the outcome is still unsatisfactory for Mr J and I can understand his point of view, 
although I dont think the Direct Debit letter was held out as being an agreement  it was 
accurately entitled as a Confirmation of the set-up of your Direct Debit Instruction. In any 
case, I dont think that the letter ought fairly to alter the terms of the loan agreement for the 
reasons previously given.
This final decision, therefore, simply confirms my provisional findings as set out above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs J 
compensation of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman