DRN-2715089
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy they were sold by 
TenetConnect in 1998. They consider the policy was mis-sold because they werent told 
about the risks associated with the policy and were led to believe it would pay off the 
mortgage and leave them with a lump sum at the end of the term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W took out twin mortgage endowment policies in 1998. They were designed to, 
in combination, produce sufficient funds to pay out £54,580 at maturity. The policies also 
provided the same amount in life and critical illness cover for each of them, so that the whole 
mortgage would be paid off in either of those events. The policies were with-profits plans and 
had a term of 25 years. 
The fact find document completed before the sale of the policies recorded Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances and needs. It detailed that both Mr and Mrs W were in their mid-twenties, 
employed and had joined their employers pension schemes. They had salaries of £12,000 
and £10,219 respectively. At that time, they were not married and their purpose for seeking 
advice was because they were buying their first home together for £56,500. They needed to 
borrow £54,579 for the purchase. The deposit was held in a savings account with a total of 
£4,000 in it. The amount of risk they were willing to accept in relation to their mortgage was 
recorded as two, where one was low and five adventurous.  
They were provided with an illustration of benefits and potential maturity values for the 
policies. The maturity values for the policies were based on assumed growth rates. At 7% 
annual growth the policies were projected to pay the mortgage off. The 7.5% and 10% 
growth rates showed the policy maturing for more than needed to repay the mortgage. The 
lower growth rate of 5% showed a significant shortfall in the amount needed. It was stated 
These figures are only examples and are not guaranteed  they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What you will get back depends on how your investment grows.
Mr and Mrs W accepted the recommendation for the twin endowment policies to protect and 
repay the mortgage.
The financial adviser provided Mr and Mrs W with a written record of the advice he gave 
them  a reasons why letter  a few days after their meeting.  It was recorded that there 
had been a discussion about the advantages and disadvantages of repayment and 
interest-only mortgages. An interest-only mortgage with the endowment policies as the 
repayment method was recommended, as this was compatible with Mr and Mrs Ws plans 
for house moves in the future. It was detailed that the endowment policies were 
recommended as they were designed to pay off your mortgage at the end of the mortgage 
term, based on an assumed growth rate of 7% p.a. This growth rate is not guaranteed and 
the premium calculated may need to be increased if the growth rate is less than 7%. It was 
also confirmed that Mr and Mrs W were provided with an illustration, a key features 
document (highlighting the terms and conditions of the policy, including projected surrender 
values). It also confirmed the with-profits fund provided the low risk investment profile they 
wanted. 
In the early 2000s Mr and Mrs W have said they started hearing bad press about 
endowment mortgages and were concerned the mortgage wouldnt be paid off. They asked 
TenetConnect to obtain values for the policies, including surrender values, in 2000. This 
information was provided by the life assurance company. In 2002 they asked the life 
assurance company directly for quotes to change the endowment policies to reduce the life 
cover to a minimum, but it appears the policies were surrendered instead. They also 
changed their mortgage to a repayment basis at that time. 
Mr and Mrs W raised a complaint with TenetConnect in 2019. TenetConnect didnt respond 
to the merits of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. It explained that it believed that as the 
endowment policies had been taken out more than six years earlier and surrendered more 
than three years before the complaint was made, the complaint had been made outside the 
relevant timescales contained in this services rules.
Mr and Mrs W werent satisfied with TenetConnects response and referred their complaint 
to this service for consideration. When they did so, TenetConnect objected to us considering 
the complaint as it didnt think it fell within our jurisdiction because it had been made to late.
One of my ombudsman colleagues considered TenetConnects objection to us looking into 
the complaint. She concluded the complaint was one that we could consider, as the 
evidence didnt support that Mr and Mrs W had, or ought to have had, sufficient knowledge 
to have complained before they did. As such, their complaint couldnt be time-barred as 
TenetConnect had suggested.
Our investigator considered the merits of the complaint. She didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld as she was satisfied the policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs W. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an ombudsman for consideration. They said they believed they should be 
compensated fairly for their losses resulting from the policies that were mis-sold to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Before considering the merits of the complaint, I have considered our jurisdiction to consider 
the complaint. I would confirm that I agree with my ombudsman colleague that this is a 
complaint we can consider. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the policies sold and the mortgage Mr and Mrs W were taking, the details match 
on term and amounts. So the suitability of the policies comes down to the risks associated 
with the policies and the amount of risk Mr and Mrs W were aware of and willing to take in 
relation to their mortgage.
Before advice was given to Mr and Mrs W the financial adviser discussed how they felt about 
risk in relation to their mortgage. They selected two on the five-point scale, indicating they 
were willing to accept a low to medium level of risk. The policy they were recommended was 
invested in a with-profits fund, which would have at that time been considered to represent a 
low level of risk. As such, the policy sold represented a slightly lower level of risk than 
Mr and Mrs W said they were willing to accept in 1998.
In addition, the documentation detailed that the amount Mr and Mrs W would get back from 
their policies wasnt guaranteed and that they could receive back less than they needed to repay their mortgage. This was further emphasised by the financial adviser in the reasons 
why letter he sent them confirming the advice hed given and the reasons for it.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs W were made aware of the risks associated with the 
policies they were sold, and they were willing to accept that risk at the time. As such, I cant 
find that the policies were unsuitable for them or that they were mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 18 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman