DRN-2447151
The complaint
Mr P complains  through a representative  that an adviser recommended and sold him an 
unsuitable whole-of-life product in 1989. Responsibility for that recommendation now sits 
with Phoenix Life Limited. 
What happened
Mr Ps complaint accepts that having life cover was a condition of a 20-year mortgage that 
he took out in 1989. But his complaint focusses on it probably being cheaper to have had 
decreasing term life cover. That would have meant the amount the policy paid out if Mr P 
died  the sum assured  went down in line with how much was left to pay on the mortgage. 
Mr P was actually recommended and sold a whole-of-life policy. That meant the sum 
assured was fixed at the full mortgage value. Mr Ps policy would pay this amount if he died, 
and if got one of the critical illnesses listed in the policys terms.
In response to Mr Ps complaint, Phoenix Life have said it wasnt possible in 1989 to get a 
decreasing term life cover policy that included critical illness cover. And theyve said they 
arent aware of any stand-alone critical illness cover policies that could have been sold 
alongside a decreasing term life cover policy. So the most suitable option for Mr P  in order 
to have the critical illness cover  was to have a whole-of-life policy. 
Mr Ps representatives have disagreed with this position, saying critical illness cover wasnt 
needed to get the mortgage, so it was unsuitable to recommend it to Mr P. Theyve also 
suggested it would have been possible to get a stand-alone critical illness policy in 1989. 
The complaint came to us for investigation. There werent a lot of records left from 1989. But 
it seemed Mr P had debts that he was repaying using his income. Critical illness cover 
protected his ability to continue paying off his debts, even if he became ill and couldnt work.
So our investigator found that the recommendation and sale of a whole-of-life policy was 
reasonable, as this was the only way Mr P could have had the critical illness cover, which 
seemed to suit his needs at the time. Mr Ps representatives disagreed, so the matters come 
to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr P may be disappointed to hear it, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Its difficult to say for certain what Mr P discussed with his adviser in 1989, because of a lack 
of evidence from the time. Thats understandable, given how long its been since the sale, 
and since the policy ended. Weve got a few documents, but none that explain the advisers 
reasoning behind recommending a critical illness cover product to Mr P. 
So Ive considered the suitability of the 1989 recommendation in terms of whether the 
product was wholly unsuitable. Thats to say, given what I know of Mr Ps circumstances at 
the time, was critical illness cover the wrong thing for him to have. 
Here, I see Mr P had debts that he was repaying from his income. If hed become critically ill 
and couldnt work, his ability to keep paying towards those debts would have been affected. 
So, whether it was needed to get the mortgage or not, critical illness cover provided a 
protection to Mr P. It gave him a benefit, given his circumstances.
I appreciate there may have been other products that provided less cover to Mr P, for a 
lower cost. But that alone doesnt make the product he was sold wholly unsuitable for him. 
Mr Ps representatives have said about the possibility of Mr P getting a stand-alone critical 
illness cover policy. But theyve not given us any specific details of a policy that could have 
done this in 1989. Nor is there evidence that the combined cost of getting decreasing term 
life cover and separate critical illness cover was cheaper or of more benefit to Mr P. 
Theres nothing in the circumstances described to us that shows me it was wholly unsuitable 
for Mr P to have life and critical illness cover in 1989. The life cover allowed him to get the 
mortgage he wanted. And the critical illness cover protected his ability to repay the 
mortgage, if he became ill and couldnt work. 
So from that conclusion, I then find it was reasonable for Phoenix Life to recommend a 
whole-or-life product to Mr P. Theyve said thats the only way he could get both life and 
critical illness cover. And Ive seen nothing that shows theyre wrong about that. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman