DRN-3861149
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt fully consider FCA guidelines about interest 
only mortgages coming to an end when declining her request for a five-year extension on 
her mortgage term.
What happened
In 2008, Ms M took an interest only mortgage for approximately £315,000 with Lloyds over a 
12-year term. The mortgage offer says Ms M intended to repay the mortgage using the 
proceeds from an ISA and confirms that overpayments of up to 10% per year are allowed on 
the mortgage without charge.
Ms M describes herself as elderly and clinically vulnerable, with physical and mental health 
conditions. We know from the evidence shes sent us that she has a heart condition 
requiring surgery. And that surgery has been postponed due to a cancer diagnosis requiring 
separate surgery and radio or chemotherapy. She says her cancer is treatable but not 
curable and her oncologist told her she is unlikely to live more than five years. Ms M says 
she informed Lloyds of her health issues in March 2021. However, I can see that Ms Ms 
health prognosis changes with time as she receives the results of tests.
My understanding from what Ms M has told us is that she started living away from the 
property around or before the time of the first covid lockdown  March 2020  to be close to 
her daughter. And because of her health conditions had to self-isolate for a significant period 
of time. She also receives regular treatment from a hospital close to her rented address, so 
hasnt returned to live in the mortgaged property. 
Lloyds wrote to Ms M in February 2018 asking her to call to discuss her plans for repayment 
of the mortgage. It wrote to her again in March 2020 acknowledging that shed since made 
such a call. Lloydss contact notes show Ms M asked for a five-year term extension on       
27 March 2020. It declined her request, so she complained about that. It addressed that 
point and other issues in its final response letter dated 1 September 2020. Lloyds said it 
declined Ms Ms request for a five-year term extension as it hadnt been able to assess 
affordability and there was no repayment vehicle in place. So, it said, it wasnt in either 
partys best interest to extend the mortgage term by five years. Lloyds also said it is unable 
to change its criteria or policy to suit individual customers. And she should call to discuss 
matters further.
Ms M says Lloyds has refused to discuss matters via email  her preferred method of 
contact  instead insisting on phone calls. But she says shes spoken to a different call 
handler every time and has had to explain her situation from scratch. Ms M has provided us 
with details of 18 calls she made to Lloyds in 2022, to try to reach an agreement. She says 
that adds to the stress of dealing with her mortgage and is counterproductive to her 
response to the medical treatment shes receiving. And shes been advised by her GP to 
avoid stressful situations so is not now talking directly with Lloyds. Dissatisfied with Lloydss 
response, Ms M asked us to consider her complaint.
Our investigator thought Lloyds should do more to help Ms M. She said, given all the 
circumstances, Lloyds should allow Ms M to prioritise her health over the repayment of her 
mortgage. To resolve Ms Ms complaint, our investigator said Lloyds should extend her 
mortgage term by two years as a temporary forbearance measure. She also informally 
asked whether it would consider a five-year term extension rather than two. Lloyds has told 
us that it hasnt ruled a term extension out but, before it could make a decision, it would want 
to speak to Ms M to clarify a number of matters.
As Ms M has said she is unable to discuss her circumstances with Lloyds at this time  due 
to the effect she fears that will have on her health  no resolution could be reached. So, her 
complaint has been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Ms Ms complaint, Ive thought about whether Lloyds has dealt with her fairly and 
reasonably with regard to her mortgage reaching the end of its term, given her 
circumstances.
The term of Ms Ms mortgage came to an end in January 2021. So, ordinarily, Id think it fair 
that Lloyds would seek the repayment of the mortgage and pursue the borrower reasonably 
to that end. However, I dont think Ms Ms circumstances (as outlined above) make this an 
ordinary situation. So, I would expect Lloyds to deal with Ms M sensitively and be flexible in 
its approach to finding a solution.
Ms M says that Lloyds has failed to follow the FCAs finalised guidance to lenders published 
in 2013  Dealing fairly with interest only mortgage customers who risk being unable to 
repay their loan. Section 6.1 of that guidance says:
In general, where a mortgage has reached maturity without the capital being repaid, 
the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) of the mortgage will continue until the loan is 
repaid. That means the borrower will still be a customer of the firm and must be 
treated fairly under Principle 6. Most contracts are likely to require monthly payments 
to be made until the loan is repaid.
Principle 6 in the FCA handbook says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ive borne those things in mind  and Ive also taken into account the FCAs guidance on the 
treatment of vulnerable customers. Im satisfied Ms Ms health conditions mean she is a 
vulnerable customer. And that they mean its likely she has a disability as defined by the 
Equality Act, meaning Lloyds needs to make reasonable adjustments where appropriate. Ive 
taken that into account too.
Of particular concern to Ms M is the difficulty shes experienced communicating with Lloyds 
since the mortgage term came to an end. As Ive said above, Ms Ms provided details of 18 
calls she made to Lloyds since 2020. She said every time she called, she had to speak to a 
different member of staff and explain her circumstances from scratch. I understand that task 
became more challenging for her the more she became unwell.
In its response to our investigators opinion, Lloyds outlined an example of a time when it 
arranged to call Ms M and having gone through security, the line went dead. And Ms M didnt call back after that to discuss the repayment of the mortgage. Ms M has commented 
on that incident in an email to Lloyds on 16 May 2022. She said she was left disappointed 
because Lloydss representative  a mortgage adviser  said he had a resolution to her 
issue before she was cut-off. But the representative never attempted to call her back. She 
expressed concern that she was not allowed to call or email Lloyds at that time. I take it from 
that she meant she was unable to initiate contact directly with a mortgage adviser. Ms Ms is 
a very different perspective from Lloydss of that particular event. And, with that in mind and 
the list of calls Ms M says shes made, Im not persuaded that there has been a lack of effort 
on Ms Ms behalf to engage with Lloyds to reach a solution.
As Ive said, the task of engaging with Lloyds became more challenging for Ms M as her 
health deteriorated. Ms M says she would have found it much less impactful if Lloyds agreed 
to communicate with her via email. While Lloyds has told us it will do everything we can to 
help and support her, my understanding is that it remains resolute that it will not enter into 
discussions with her via email to resolve the issue of the repayment of her mortgage. It 
insists on her calling into its mortgage centre. I think Lloydss stance on that particular issue 
is inflexible, given Ms Ms health concerns. And, given the same health concerns, I think that 
inflexibility is at odds with the spirit of the FCAs general guidance as summarised by 
principle 6 and the other factors Ive set out above.
I also understand that Ms M continues to make mortgage payments and her account is not in 
arrears. So, with principle 6 in mind, Lloyds should view the mortgage loan as continuing 
until it is repaid, under its current terms and conditions  as outlined in section 6.1 of the 
FCAs finalised guidance to lenders published in 2013  Dealing fairly with interest only 
mortgage customers who risk being unable to repay their loan. I say that because I think 
principle six compels Lloyds to consider Ms Ms current health concerns as paramount when 
assessing her best interests, and then to treat her fairly with that in mind. I think fairly under 
these circumstances  circumstances which are extreme from Ms Ms point of view  means 
adopting a flexible, bespoke approach which may be different from what it ordinarily does.
I accept that, ordinarily, Lloyds would want to establish how Ms M will repay the mortgage at 
the end of the extended term and that the contractual monthly payments are affordable and 
sustainable throughout the extended term. And I understand that, for Lloyds, a telephone 
conversation with Ms M to assess her circumstances and her income and expenditure would 
be the most efficient way forward. But Ms M says that process, be that by phone or any 
other method currently, would be detrimental to her health. Given the medical evidence     
Ms M has provided  the necessary details of which all parties are aware of  Im persuaded 
that is true, and that her best interests are currently served by her focussing all her energy 
on her health.
To be clear, I am not suggesting that it is unreasonable for Lloyds to expect Ms M to repay 
her mortgage. And she will need to ensure that she is able to do so. Its reasonable that 
Lloyds wants to understand what her plans for repayment are  though it should make 
reasonable adjustments to how it goes about discussing that with her. However, in Ms Ms 
very particular circumstances, I think now is not the time for this to be her focus. In my view, 
its fair and reasonable that Lloyds gives Ms M some breathing space to concentrate on her 
health and treatment. As long as she continues to make the monthly interest payments in the 
meantime, discussion of how the mortgage can be brought to an end is best postponed for 
now.
Lloyds has also suggested that Ms Ms daughter act for her to engage with it to reach a 
solution. However, Ms M has told us of a compelling reason why that would not currently be 
appropriate. While she has explained that reason fully to us  and Im persuaded by it      
Ms M says she feels that shes not at liberty to share that information with Lloyds. As that 
information is sensitive and personal, Id ask that Lloyds accepts my judgement on it on trust.
Putting things right
Ive thought about whether, given what Ive said above, it would be appropriate for Lloyds to 
extend Ms Ms mortgage for the five years shes asked for. However, while she is currently 
making payments and says she would like to return to work as soon as she makes enough 
of a recovery to do so, affordability into the long term remains an uncertainty. Shes currently 
making the payments and has income through renting out property. I know she hopes to 
return to work as well, but its not clear how realistic that is, at least in the short term. I am 
persuaded that Ms M needs time to focus on her health for a sustained period. But I think 
five years is a long period when Ms Ms position is uncertain  taking into account as well 
that its reasonable to expect Lloyds to be able to keep the situation under review. 
Ms M has said that she has been told by medical professionals that she may not live longer 
than five years. And shes said the sale of the property would become the repayment vehicle 
for her mortgage in the event of her death. But given the volatility of her circumstances, 
despite her intentions to return to work, I think a two-year term extension as a forbearance 
measure, would be more appropriate. At the end of two years, a further extension may be 
appropriate  but thats a matter to be reviewed at the time.
As a resolution to Ms Ms complaint, Lloyds should:
Extend Ms Ms mortgage by two years from the date we notify Lloyds she has 
accepted this decision, if she does so, as a forbearance measure.
Keep communication to a minimum during that two-year period to allow Ms M to 
focus on her health.
Review Ms Ms circumstances at the end of that two-year period with a view to 
finding a solution that fully considers all circumstances, including her health.
Communicate with her in a way that is appropriate for her, giving due regard to her 
health concerns at that time. Lloyds should consider referring the management of her 
account to its vulnerable customer team to provide her with the specialist support she 
needs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman