DRN-3706340
The complaint
A and A complain that Advisory Insurance Brokers Limited (AIB) mis-sold them their 
commercial property insurance. 
What happened
A and A approached AIB to find them an insurance policy for their farm. They made it clear 
that theyd like cover for storm damage to live timber.
AIB said this type of cover wasnt available from any of its panel of insurers. A and A 
purchased one of the policies on the understanding it didnt offer the cover for storm damage 
to live timber.
After a storm, A and As property suffered some damage to its live timber. While A and A 
were assessing the damage with a help of a third party, that third party asked if they were 
insured for the damage. When A and A said they werent, the third party was surprised 
because they said cover was available on the market.
A and A complained to AIB. They thought the policy had been mis-sold to them. They 
thought this because they said AIB gave them the impression that cover for storm damage to 
live timber wasnt available at all. They think AIB should have done more to let them know 
that while it wasnt something it could offer them, it was something available from other 
brokers and insurers. Theyve said had it done so, they would have bought a policy with 
cover for storm damage to live timber and then be covered for the damage to their property.
AIB didnt uphold A and As complaint. It said it made it clear that the policy didnt provide 
cover for storm damage to live timber and said A and A bought it on that understanding. It 
said it didnt need to explain that the cover was available from other brokers or insurers.
A and A remained unhappy and brought their complaint to us. One of our investigators didnt 
recommend it be upheld. He thought AIB had done what it needed to do when selling this 
policy and didnt think it had been mis-sold.
A and A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it, Ill explain why.
As this was an advised sale, AIB needed to make sure the policy it sold A and A met 
its requirements and/or make clear what requirements it wasnt able to meet.
Its clear that cover for storm damage to live timber was one of A and As 
requirements.
AIB made it clear that cover for storm damage to live timber wasnt something it 
could offer A and A from any of its panel of insurers.
AIB arent required to let A and A know what cover is available from other 
businesses. And nothing Ive seen from AIB gives the impression this cover isnt 
available on the market; it simply shows AIB cant offer this cover.
A and A are under no obligation to use AIB to source their insurance policy and were 
free to use other brokers or insurers when looking for cover.
A and A took out the policy with AIB - which met all their other requirements - with the 
full understanding that cover for storm damage to live timber wasnt covered. So, I 
dont find it mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A and A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman