DRN-3553128
The complaint
Miss D complains through her representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent her money on 
a high cost loan she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Miss D with a loan of £4,000 on 18 September 2015, repayable at the 
monthly rate of around £168. She said that she had a number of debts, including payday 
loans at the time. She was also making regular payments to debt collectors. 
AvantCredit said that it carried out all the necessary verification checks, including reviewing 
an up to date bank statement, verifying Miss Ds income and carrying out a credit check. It 
assessed that she was able to afford the loan repayments.
Our adjudicator said after factoring in her overall outgoings (her expenses and credit 
commitments including this loan), it didnt seem like Miss D had any positive disposable 
income left over. So, he didnt think this was going to lead to a sustainable pattern of lending. 
He said that AvantCredit hadnt made a fair lending decision.
AvantCredit disagreed. It pointed out that in her complaint to us that Miss D said she was 
going to consolidate various credit card debts and loans. So it said It was reasonable to 
assume that she would have done this, leaving her with a monthly disposable income of 
around £188. This is taking into account her various defaulted debts. It estimated a payment 
for these noting that several hadnt had any payments made over a number of years.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss D would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss D would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ds ability to make the repayments under the agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss D undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss D. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The loan represented a considerable financial commitment for Miss D, bearing in mind her 
assessed income of £1,400. It was also for a long period. So AvantCredit a shouldve carried 
a thorough assessment of Miss Ds financial circumstances
AvantCredit says the loan was for consolidation of debts. Indeed this is what Miss D said in 
her complaint to us. Specifically a credit card and mail order debts. But I can find no record 
of this in the application made to AvantCredit. The application form noted that the loan 
purpose was vacation. I have to assume that at the time of the application, AvantCredit 
didnt anticipate the loan would be used for consolidation of credit, and made its decision to 
lend accordingly.
Theres no credit check report with AvantCredits files. So Ive used AvantCredits calculation 
of Miss Ds credit commitments and what those would be after the loan was issued. It said 
that Miss D had seven defaults on her credit file but could only trace that regular payments 
had been made on three of those, totalling £89 a month. I can see from Miss Ds bank 
statements that she was paying £25 a month to a financial institution specialising in debt 
collection. So I would think that probably accounts for the other defaulted debts.
AvantCredit assessed that with minimum payments on other accounts Miss D was spending 
around £733.40 in total per month, which is 52% of her stated income of £1,400. The only 
debt I can see that Miss D paid off was a mail order account which with a monthly payment 
of 5% would have saved her about £48 a month. But adding in the new loan payment, 
Miss D would have been spending 61% of her income on credit commitments. This was very 
high and a clear indication that Miss D wouldnt have been able to afford the loan repayments. Bearing in mind that this loan wasnt specified for debt consolidation, and that 
AvantCredit made no attempt to pay off any of the loans before releasing the loan advance 
to Miss D, I think that figure had to be taken as the correct post loan figure.
Turning to her disposable income, again apart from the mail order account I cant assume 
that Miss D paid or that it was reasonable for AvantCredit to have assumed she would pay 
off any other debts. Her post loan credit commitments would have amounted to £853.40 
(£733.40 plus £168 loan payment, less £48 mail order payment). Then, adding her outgoings 
of £751, this would have left her with a negative disposable income of more than -£200.
So I think its clear that without any debt consolidation this loan wasnt affordable to Miss D. I 
dont think that AvantCredit made a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Miss D has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think AvantCredit should refund all interest 
and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan. 
Treat any payments made by Miss D as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Miss D has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Miss Ds 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman