DRN-3619227
The complaint
Ms I complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, recorded a marker against her 
name on a fraud prevention database - CIFAS.
What happened
Ms I applied for a mortgage with Halifax, via a broker, in 2016. Halifax approved the 
mortgage but in 2017 recorded a marker for application fraud against her name on the 
CIFAS fraud database. The database is a cross-industry fraud prevention database which 
allows financial services providers to share relevant information, subject to safeguards. 
In 2022, Ms I found out about the fraud marker following an application for a credit card with 
Halifax. She made a data subject access request (DSAR) to CIFAS which showed that 
Halifax recorded a marker against her name for application fraud in 2017. 
Ms I made a complaint to Halifax. It responded and declined the complaint but agreed to 
remove the marker. 
Unhappy with this, Ms I referred the matter to this service. Our investigator didnt think 
Halifax had acted unfairly in applying the marker and, as it had since been removed, didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld or any further action was needed from Halifax. 
Ms I disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter. She says this matter 
has been very distressing and that she has been unable to obtain credit from other lenders 
as a result of the marker. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
CIFAS issues principles for its members (which are available on its website) which set out 
the standard of proof to be applied in making an entry on the database. Making an entry 
doesnt require proof of fraud or a criminal conviction. 
The standard to be applied is that Halifax should have had clear, relevant and rigorous 
evidence such that it could confidently report the matter to the authorities should it choose to 
do so  so the standard is not proof of fraud, but reasonable suspicion of fraud. And 
although the principles were issued in 2018, I think they represented existing good practice. 
Halifax has explained that it applied the marker following an internal audit. It said the marker 
was applied due to inconsistencies in the information provided. And whilst it would have 
been preferable for this information to have been checked at the time of the application 
rather than after it had been approved - Ive reviewed the information and I dont consider 
that the decision to enter the marker was an unreasonable one. 
I understand the difficult position that Ms I is in and her comments about the effect this had 
on her over the last few years, but I dont think that Halifax treated her unfairly when it 
entered the marker. 
I can appreciate Ms Is concerns and frustrations with other lenders declining her 
applications. But I dont consider it fair to hold Halifax responsible for the actions of other 
lenders. It is for other lenders to make their own investigations and enquiries rather than 
declining any applications just because of the presence of a CIFAS marker  this is set out in 
CIFASs guidance to its members. 
I also note that the record reflects that the facility was granted  which would have also been 
visible for other lenders to see. If Ms I is unhappy with the decisions reached by other 
lenders  she will need to address her concerns to them directly.    
Halifax has now agreed to remove this marker due to the length of time that has passed 
since it was applied. As I dont consider it was an unreasonable decision to apply this marker 
and it has now been removed  I dont require Halifax to take any further action to resolve 
this complaint. 
Whilst I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Ms I, having considered 
everything, I dont think I can fairly uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman