DRN-2675355
The complaint
H, a limited liability partnership (LLP) complains that Metro Bank Plc didnt do enough when 
they were victims of an online investment scam. Mr H, one of the partners, brings the 
complaint on Hs behalf.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr H himself, where I mean H the LLP. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In February 2019 Mr H made a series of debit card payments to a merchant Ill refer to as F. 
The payments totalled around £11,500. At the time Mr H believed he was crediting a 
legitimate investment platform as he had the intention to trade stocks and shares. 
Having made the payments, Mr H then saw online that there were negative reports about F. 
He tried to withdraw his money but wasnt able to as F ignored his requests. Mr H realised 
hed likely been the victim of a scam and contacted Metro Bank. He asked them to help him 
get his money back through a chargeback. 
Metro Bank looked into this but ultimately said they couldnt assist. They said there was no 
protection under the chargeback scheme in these circumstances. Mr H complained and 
when Metro Bank maintained their position the complaint was referred to our service. One of 
our investigators sympathised with Mr Hs position but didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. Mr H disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Metro Bank are bound by the card scheme providers chargeback rules which in this case is 
Mastercard. Whilst there is no right to a chargeback, I generally consider it to be good 
practice that a chargeback be raised if there is a reasonable chance of it succeeding. But a 
chargeback can only be made within the scheme rules. 
Under the Mastercard scheme rules there is limited protection for payments going to 
investments. Our service has clarified with Mastercard that there may be a chargeback route 
to pursue if the merchant doesnt make available on its platform funds transferred to it. But in 
this case, Mr H has confirmed that funds were showing as available in his trading account. 
The nature of his claim is that F were operating a scam, and this isnt something the 
chargeback scheme provides protection against. So, I dont think Metro Bank acted unfairly 
when declining to take a chargeback further, as I dont think there was an avenue for them to 
pursue that had any prospect of success. 
Our investigator also considered whether Metro Bank ought to have intervened when the 
initial payments were made. He concluded that the four debit card payments werent so 
unusual that he would have expected Metro Bank to have intervened at the time. Mr H 
disputes this, he has quoted from and referenced the British Standard Institute (BSI) PAS 
17271 (2017)  Protecting Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code. Ive 
considered all of this and it isnt in dispute that Metro Bank has (and had) obligations to be 
alert to fraud and to act in its customers best interests. So, the starting point here is whether 
the instructions Mr H gave to Metro Bank (either individually or collectively) were unusual in 
relation to the typical account activity. 
Clearly there is a balance to be struck between allowing customers free access to their funds 
and being alert to instances of fraud and scams. Mr Hs account is a business account. As 
such, its not unusual to expect a different type of activity and potentially larger payments 
being made when compared to a personal account. The balance of the account (after the 
payments had all been made) was also still nearly £10,000. So this isnt a case where an 
account was drained and all available funds were used (which can be an indicator of fraud). 
Overall, I dont think Metro Bank were wrong to allow the payments to be made. I dont think 
the activity was so unusual for this particular account where I think it would have been 
reasonable to expect them to have intervened and to have spoken to Mr H before 
processing them. 
Mr H has also referenced another complaint he had with our service in relation to similar 
circumstances with a different bank. He points out that complaint was found in his favour. As 
our investigator pointed out, each complaint is considered on its own merits. But to assist 
Mr Hs understanding, his other complaint involved a credit card (which attracts additional 
protections beyond the chargeback scheme available for a debit card). It also involved a 
different card provider with different chargeback scheme rules. So, there are material 
differences between the cases.
Im sorry Mr H has lost money in this way. But I dont think Metro Bank reasonably ought to 
have done more at the time the payments were made, nor do I think they ought to have done 
more to try to pursue a chargeback. As such, I cant fairly tell them to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman