DRN-4191051
The complaint
Ms M and Mr R complain that U K Insurance Limited (hereafter UKI) unfairly declined their 
travel insurance claim.  
What happened
Ms M and Mr R have worldwide family travel insurance underwritten by UKI. In September 
2022 they booked a multi-stop trip within Europe by train to destinations Ill call city 1 and 
city 2. 
Unfortunately, two days before their scheduled departure, the trains Ms M and Mr R were 
due to travel to city 1 on were cancelled. This was because of industrial action in a country 
the trains needed to arrive at and depart from. So, knowing theyd be unable to reach city 1 
in time Ms M and Mr R rearranged their trip  cancelling their travel to and stay in city 1 
altogether and instead booking flights to reach city 2 on the same date theyd originally 
planned to arrive there. 
Ms M and Mr R complained as UKI told them the circumstances of their claim fell outside the 
scope of the policy. Namely, because industrial action wasnt an insured event under the 
cancellation cover and the requirements for abandonment cover werent met either. 
Unhappy with that position, Ms M and Mr R brought their complaint to this service. They told 
us they wanted the costs of rearranging their travel covered, compensation for the stress 
UKI had caused them, and their travel insurance policy reviewed. 
Our investigator thought UKI had declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy so 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. But Ms M and Mr R disagreed and said there 
were fundamental failings in the way UKI had both worded the travel insurance policy and 
responded to their claim. They asked for the complaint be looked at by an ombudsman, and 
so it is now with me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ill not be responding directly to every point made; Ill focus instead on those 
matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint.
Despite my empathy with the position Ms M and Mr R found themselves in, for the reasons 
Ill now explain I too am satisfied that UKI declined this claim reasonably and in line with the 
relevant policy terms:
UKI has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and not to reject 
them unreasonably. 
Travel insurance isnt designed to cover every eventuality. Rather, policies are 
underwritten to provide cover for a list of specific events or circumstances. The cover 
available to Ms M and Mr R is detailed in their policys terms and conditions. 
A specific list of reasons for cancellation is set out within those terms and 
conditions. I wont recite that list here as it is somewhat lengthy and both sides are 
familiar with it. But the circumstances leading to Ms M and Mr R cancelling some of 
their travel plans arent captured within these cancellation provisions. So UKI was 
acting in line with the relevant terms when declining this claim on that basis. 
Similarly, the terms and conditions provide a list of reasons where abandonment 
cover would apply. As this list is shorter, Ill include it here for ease of reading:
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if 
you choose to abandon your trip on your outward journey at your point of departure 
because your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is:
1. Delayed by more than 12 hours (6 hours for a trip of four nights or less) beyond 
the departure time shown on your travel ticket on your outward journey.
2. Cancelled following a delay and your transport operator is unable to provide you 
with a replacement from your point of departure within 12 hours of the original 
departure time of your outward journey.
So although disappointing for Ms M and Mr R, the circumstances leading to them 
cancelling some of their travel plans arent captured by the abandonment provision 
either. 
I appreciate Ms M and Mr R say there are fundamental failings in the policys wording 
but as I noted above travel insurance is not designed to cover every or any 
eventuality. I think the cancellation and abandonment provisions were set out clearly 
and Im not persuaded that UKIs declination  on the grounds of this claim falling 
outside the scope of the policy  was unreasonable.
For all of the reasons given above I am not upholding this complaint. I recognise Ms M and 
Mr R may be further disappointed, but I hope theyll appreciate why Ill not be directing UKI 
to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman