DRN-3142183
The complaint
Mr A complains that hes been unfairly treated by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) with the 
price it charged for his building and contents insurance policy over a number of years.
What happened
Mr As buildings and contents insurance was taken out with his bank, (company B) in 1962 
and he was insured by it or a predecessor brand of the bank until the policy was cancelled in 
2019. Company B isnt an underwriter but an intermediary providing the insurance under its 
brand. Over the years different insurers have provided the background cover, underwriting 
the policy. Aviva took over the underwriting of Mr As policy from 2012 and was responsible 
for the price increases from this point onwards. The premium charged for the first year that 
Aviva provided the insurance cost £719.39.  
Mr A is represented by his son whos brought the complaint to this service after a Power of 
Attorney was granted for Mr A. Mr As son was reviewing and consolidating Mr As accounts 
including those with company B when a renewal invite was received for the home insurance. 
Mr As son was shocked to see the premium quoted for the renewal was almost £900 for the 
year.
Mr As son looked online and found what he considered to be a similar suitable alternative 
policy with more cover than Mr A previously had. The total cost of this policy was less than 
£200 per year. Mr As son feels company B should have been aware his father is vulnerable 
as he speaks little English. And in 2004 company B was found to have mis-sold an 
investment product to Mr and A his wife. His son believes it should have been clear from this 
and Mr As interactions with branch staff that he was vulnerable. He complained to company 
B about the price of the home insurance and that Mr A had been treated unfairly.
The complaint was answered by company B but it was passed back and forth to Aviva and 
company B offered £50 in recognition of how the complaint was handled. 
As Aviva is responsible for the price increases on Mr As policy the complaint was set up 
against it with this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and said that she didnt 
think Aviva had acted unfairly with how it had priced Mr As policy or how it had treated him. 
Although she acknowledged the policy Mr A had was expensive, she felt the price increases 
overtime where justified and inline with how Aviva approached and priced its policies for 
other customers. So she didnt ask that Aviva do anything else.
Mr A didnt agree with our investigators assessment so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mr A and his son but Ill explain why Ive reached this 
decision. 
Mr As son feels strongly that company B and its knowledge of Mr A means it should have 
been aware he is vulnerable. And it took advantage of this when it allowed him to take out 
the policy with it. However, this complaint does not focus on the actions of company B or 
whether it took advantage of Mr A with how the price of the policy is set. This is because it 
doesnt underwrite the policy or set the price. Aviva is responsible for setting the price and 
with this being questioned, Aviva is responsible for the complaint. But I understand why 
Mr As son feels the branch staff could have stepped in to provide further support to his 
father.
When looking at complaints about insurance pricing, its important to set out the role of this 
service and myself. It is not for me to tell a business what it should charge when agreeing to 
provide cover, this is a commercial decision that it is entitled to make. But I can check that a 
customer is treated fairly when a business prices the policy. 
Aviva provided the insurance from 2012 through until Mr As policy was cancelled in 2019. I 
need to decide whether I think its reasonable to say Aviva would have been aware of any 
vulnerability with Mr A and whether I think its treated him fairly based on its knowledge of 
this and how its priced the policy.
Mr As son said his father hasnt and wouldnt have interacted with Aviva about the cost of 
his policy. His son has said his English is limited and hed find it difficult to interact with the 
businesses due to this. He also thinks if he did, it would have been clear he was vulnerable.
Avivas said Mr A called it directly in 2017 to amend how he pays for his insurance from an 
annual payment to a monthly payment and the policy was re-keyed at this point. If feels this 
demonstrated Mr A was able to call and discuss the policy with it. The notes indicate it was 
clear Mr A was hard of hearing and written confirmation was sent out. 
I understand the points raised by Mr As son about the complaint with company B previously, 
but I dont think it would be fair to say that Aviva would have been aware of any vulnerability 
because of this. It didnt take over the underwriting of Mr As policy until 2012 and would 
have no knowledge of any previous interaction with company B or the level of engagement 
Mr A had with his policy.
Although disputed by Mr As son, the system notes indicate Mr A did call Aviva in 2017 to 
amend how the policy was paid for. And as Ive said above, it was noted that Mr A was hard 
of hearing. I think from this point it could be said that Aviva had notice of some underlying 
vulnerabilities with Mr A.
Despite calling to amend how the premium was paid, I dont think its fair to say Mr A was 
engaged with the cost of his policy or questioned the price. He accepted and paid this at 
renewal without question and moved to monthly payments to make this easier. So he was 
inert on the price. But I dont think Aviva treated him unfairly or took advantage of his lack of 
engagement or any vulnerability. 
Ive reviewed the pricing information provided by Aviva. Its not been able to provide the 
loadings for 2012 and 2013, but Ive seen the subsequent years information and am happy 
these give me a fair reflection of how its priced the policy. I cant share this with Mr A as its 
commercially sensitive but I can explain why Im satisfied the price increase to his policy 
have been applied fairly.In 2014 Avivas view of the risk was considerably different to how it viewed the risk of the 
insurance in 2019. In fact the risk price within the policy more than doubled within this 
period. Despite this, Mr As price didnt increase at the same rate, the total percentage 
increase in price over this period of time was only around 25%. So Im satisfied the 
increases in price were applied because of Avivas changing view of the risk and not 
because it sought to take advantage of Mr A and his lack of engagement. And it did what it 
could to reduce the impact of this changing view of the risk by capping the annual increases 
to the price.
I understand the frustration Mr As son has at the vast difference in price between the policy 
Mr A had and the one he was able to find for him. But a difference in price doesnt mean one 
price is right and the other wrong. All insurers will view and price risk differently with each 
having its own models in place to help assess and apply this. Together with this, insurers will 
often offer heavy new customer discounts to attract new customers which can result in the 
difference in the underlying approach to risk being exaggerated. 
In this case Im satisfied that Aviva has treated Mr A fairly. Its priced his policy inline with its 
view of the risk. Ive not seen anything to suggest the price increases where driven by a lack 
of engagement from Mr A or a perception that theyd be accepted due to any underlying 
vulnerability. So I dont think Aviva needs to do anything to put things right with Mr As 
complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman