DRN-2933991
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy about the way John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) has 
dealt with disputed transactions on her account which she says she didnt make or otherwise 
authorise.
Mrs B is represented by Mr B in this complaint. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide a brief summary of events below.
Mrs B has a credit card account with John Lewis.
In May and June 2020, there were several disputed transactions made on Mrs Bs account.  
Her son, Mr B, says he has Power of Attorney (POA) over his mothers affairs.  He says he 
has spent several hours corresponding with John Lewis to try to sort out the transactions.  
However, John Lewis didnt allow Mr B to do this because it says it didnt have a POA 
proving he had authority over Mrs Bs affairs.
As Mr B reached an impasse with John Lewis, he referred a complaint on Mrs Bs behalf to 
our service in January 2021.
Before the complaint was considered by us, John Lewis wrote to Mrs B in April 2021.  In that 
letter, John Lewis said as it had not received a POA granting Mr B control over Mrs Bs 
affairs, it couldnt act on his instructions.  But, having reviewed things, John Lewis explained, 
amongst other things, that it had decided to credit Mrs Bs account with the sum of the 
disputed transactions, including interest and unpaid direct debit fees.  It also said it had 
requested an amendment to be made to remove any adverse data and defaults registered 
with the Credit Reference Agencies against Mrs B.  John Lewis added that whilst it made no 
error and followed the correct policy, it accepted that there had been some service failures.  
For this reason, it offered Mrs B £100 as compensation. 
One of our investigators then considered Mrs Bs complaint.  He thought what John Lewis 
had done to put things right regarding the disputed transactions was fair  including the £100 
compensation it offered.
Mr B responded stating that Mrs B didnt accept our investigators findings.  In broad 
summary, Mr B accepts that the disputed transactions have now been resolved, so the only 
issue in dispute is compensation.  He explains that there were previous issues concerning 
disputed transactions on Mrs Bs account in 2019.  On that occasion, Mr B says he provided 
John Lewis with a POA which resulted in him being able to resolve things.  So, Mr B argues 
that either John Lewis has the POA he provided previously; or if it doesnt, it allowed him to 
sort out the 2019 disputed transactions without one.  In either scenario, Mr B argues John 
Lewis shouldve allowed him to sort out the 2020 disputed transactions on Mrs Bs behalf. 
Our investigator asked John Lewis whether it was willing to reconsider its level of 
compensation, which it refused to do.  Our investigator communicated this to Mr B and said 
his view remained the same.  Mr B responded reiterating his position and provided copies of 
Mrs Bs statements showing the 2019 disputed transactions. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
As the disputed transactions are no longer in issue, I will only focus on whether the level of 
compensation John Lewis has offered is fair.
Mr B says he provided John Lewis with a POA in or around late 2019, so he could sort out 
disputed transactions on Mrs Bs account.  He says the POA was accepted, which allowed 
him to correspond with John Lewis.  Consequently, John Lewis credited the disputed sums 
to Mrs Bs account.  Mr B has provided our investigator with Mrs Bs statements showing 
said sums being debited and credited from her account.
However, John Lewis has provided evidence of its internal records which show that the 2019 
disputed sums were credited to Mrs Bs account not because it had dealt with Mr B, but 
because it had in fact spoken to Mrs B directly.  So, Im not persuaded, on balance, that 
John Lewis was provided with a POA then.  I say this because I find it unlikely that if a POA 
had been provided, Mrs B would then speak to John Lewis directly to sort out the disputed 
transactions herself, rather than let Mr B do it.  Moreover, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest John Lewis had a POA on record at the time, or that one was sent to it.
Mr B didnt send John Lewis a POA when he started corresponding with it about the 2020 
disputed transactions.  Because of this, I dont find John Lewiss repeated requests for a 
POA  before it could move forward  to be unreasonable.
A POA is legal document that lets someone (in this case, Mrs B) appoint one or more people 
to act on their behalf.  This can be for property and financial matters, and/or for health and 
welfare matters.  With that in mind, John Lewis wouldve needed to be satisfied that Mr B 
had the authority to handle Mrs Bs affairs before it could take things further.  So, without a 
POA to confirm this, John Lewis was unable to correspond with Mr B in the way he wanted.  
John Lewis made this clear in several of its correspondence with both Mr B and Mrs B.  It 
also made it clear what was required to move things forward.
Mr B argues that although John Lewis says it has never received a POA, it nevertheless, in 
the end, refunded the 2020 transactions.  John Lewis says it did this as a goodwill gesture  
not because of a request from Mr B.  It also says it made this decision as it was too late for it 
to investigate the transactions as fraud.  I dont find this unreasonable.  I acknowledge Mr 
Bs point that if John Lewis was able to do this without a POA, it shouldve done so sooner.  
However, ultimately, this was down to John Lewiss discretion  something which I cant 
interfere with.  It is a matter for John Lewis to decide which parts of its policy and procedure 
it wants to follow or depart from.So, taking all the above factors together, Im satisfied John Lewis acted reasonably in its 
requests for a POA.  John Lewis has offered Mrs B £100 for poor service, which seems fair 
and reasonable to me. 
Putting things right
John Lewis Financial Services Limited should pay Mrs B £100 if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman