DRN-3962745
The complaint
Miss R says TSB Bank Plc has treated her unfairly in relation to reporting on her credit file.
What happened
In 2012 Miss R entered into Debt Payment Plan (DPP) under the Debt Arrangement Scheme 
(DAS for short) for ten years which has now been completed. Miss R complained whilst the 
DPP was live that she felt her credit report shouldnt unfairly reflect the presence of a 
DPP/DAS then or in future. So she wanted a default registered in the past in order, as she 
argued, to fairly reflect her creditworthiness and not treat her unfairly. So she complained to 
TSB about how its reporting on her credit file.
TSB looked into the matter and said it had recorded a default recently on her file, but it 
shouldnt have done so. So it explained it was having that removed. As far as the DPP was 
concerned TSB said it was properly reporting it. And it was factually correct, so it felt it hadnt 
done anything wrong. So it didnt think it should have to do more. So Miss R brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt TSB should add a default backdated to 2012. TSB disagreed and 
reiterated it had done nothing wrong. It also pointed to guidance regarding the DAS scheme 
which said reporting of a DPP/DAS would continue after the DPP was paid off. Our 
Investigator didnt feel this made a difference. TSB remained unhappy and so this complaint 
came to me for a decision.
In December 2022 I issued a provisional decision saying that TSB hadnt done anything 
wrong. Both parties have received my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision both parties acknowledged receiving it. TSB didnt 
have anything further to add. Miss R said she wanted to make further representations and 
asked for extension, which I agreed. Just before the extension expired Miss R asked for a 
further extension. The further extension was agreed with the proviso that there would be no 
further extensions. A week has now passed since the end of the second extension period 
and no further submissions have been made by Miss R or her representative. Accordingly, 
and in the interests of finality for both parties I now issue this my final decision.
Having received no persuasive arguments from either party I see no reason to deviate from 
my rationale as set out in my provisional decision and below. Accordingly Miss Rs complaint 
is unsuccessful for the reasons given in this decision.
The DAS is a Scottish Government backed scheme and is the only statutory debt 
management plan in the UK (the mechanism that an individual has under the DAS to pay 
their debts is called a DPP). This Scheme allows those in debt to pay off debts over an 
extended period of time while giving them protection from creditors. It can last for any 
reasonable length of time and once approved will freeze all interest, fees and charges on the 
debt included, resulting in them being waived if the debtor fully completes the agreed 
repayments within the agreed timeframe. 
With regard to what is recorded by firms the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has 
published principles for firms to follow when reporting information on credit files. Broadly, 
these set out that information reported to Credit Reference Agencies should be fair and 
accurate. There is also guidance that says a firm must show whether a consumer is in a 
Debt Management Plan or DPP. It also sets out that when an account is closed and isnt 
defaulted then the record of the account will remain on the credit file for six years from the 
date of closure.
It is important to note that anyone entering into a DPP under the DAS will be recorded on the 
DAS Register, which is accessible to and monitored by credit reference agencies. So Credit 
Reference Agencies can report on the existence of the DPP on Miss Rs credit file 
irrespective of what TSB report on the matter.
It is also important to note that a DPP under the DAS is a statutory function, set up by the 
Scottish Government and formally run under legislation. As such it is distinguished from all 
the other forms of debt management plan. It is also clear that even if the account was 
defaulted, this wouldnt necessarily lead to the DAS disappearing from the credit file bearing 
in mind Miss R was paying towards the DPP until recently and TSB is obliged to report 
accurately and fairly. So Im not persuaded the course of action recommended in earlier 
assessments would have achieved what Miss R wanted, namely her paying a DPP under 
the DAS not appearing on her credit file. And I dont think TSBs reporting of her DPP would 
be unfair or inaccurate.
Miss R has pointed to FCA rules on how firms treat their customers in default or arrears and 
specifically in regard to treating them fairly. However it is clear that it isnt disputed that Miss 
R was paying her debts under a DDP under the DAS, so it is an accurate state of affairs to 
be reported. And now that it is completed, and the debts paid off, her DPP will be marked as 
settled and removed from the DAS register in line with the scheme rules and as explained on 
the DAS website.
I note the argument that if an account is defaulted it disappears after six years but that isnt 
necessarily accurate. If there is an outstanding balance that can continue to be reported as 
an unsatisfied balance. And that would not be unfair to report because it would be accurate. 
So although this DPP is longer than six years it doesnt necessarily follow that reporting it is 
unfair. And it doesnt detract from TSBs duty to report accurately the presence of a DPP. 
And ultimately, if Miss R wasnt properly advised of the consequences of entering the DAS 
originally (specifically in relation to how and for how long it would appear on her credit file) 
that doesnt sit with TSB as it didnt set up the DPP under the DAS originally.
It should also be remembered that a DPP under a DAS enables consumers to pay their 
debts in full, in a managed, planned and statutorily backed manner. And it is for future 
creditors to consider the presence of a DPP under the DAS in relation to their lending 
criteria. And although it should be reported, which Miss R feels is unfair, it should be 
remembered that the arrangement of a DAS does provide a number of advantages during its 
existence including having no unsatisfied balances (which would continue to be reported). 
Miss R also points to other creditors under the DAS defaulting her account with them. This 
may be so. But it doesnt necessarily follow that TSB has done anything wrong because of 
this. And there is no dispute Miss R entered and has now finished the DPP under the DAS. 
And Credit Reference Agencies can report the DPP whilst its reported on the DAS register.Accordingly Im not persuaded TSB has done anything wrong by reporting the DAS. And it 
correctly amended the reporting once it realised that it had made a mistake. So it is my 
decision that this complaint does not succeed, and TSB have nothing further to do in relation 
to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank Plc. It has 
nothing further to do in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman