DRN-4084723
The complaint
Mr S complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly blocked and closed his account. Hes also 
unhappy with the service he was provided by Metro.
What happened
The detailed background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr S had a current account with Metro which he used to receive his pension payments and 
pay his bills. He says he knew exactly what went in and out of his account and as a result 
never checked his bank statements. 
Between February 2021 and February 2022, sixty-four payments were made into and out of 
Mr Ss account totalling just under £25,000. 
In early September 2022, Metro was notified by another bank that their customer, who I will 
refer to as Mr T, had been the victim of a romance scam and that the payments Mr S had 
received into his account between February 2021 and February 2022, were fraudulent. 
Following this, Metro took the view that it needed to look into the payments and how Mr S 
was operating his account. So, it blocked Mr Ss account and reviewed the account.
Mr S discovered that Metro had restricted his account when he tried to take some money out 
of a cash machine and couldnt do so. Mr S went into a branch to try and find out if there as 
a problem with his account. He says the staff were unhelpful and wouldnt give him much 
information and that when he called Metro, he couldnt speak to the banks fraud 
department. So, he says he wasnt able to put across his side of things, which would have 
shown he hadnt done anything to warrant Metro blocking his account.
As part of its review Metro asked Mr S to provide an explanation about the transactions. 
Mr S emailed Metro and said that that he was unaware of the transactions from Mr T on his 
account as he never checked his statements, he said he didnt know Mr T and wasnt aware 
that the money paid into his account was fraudulent. He said he hadnt done anything wrong, 
and Metros actions had left him without access to his money which made things very difficult 
and stressful for him. Mr S also said he had suffered from sleepless nights and panic attacks 
as a result of Metro blocking his account.
Metro looked at Mr Ss explanation for the activity on his account and decided to close his 
account. The bank wrote to Mr S giving him seven days notice to make alternative banking 
arrangements.
Mr S complained and said Metro were treating him like a criminal. And said the bank were 
treating him unfairly by closing his account. Metro said it hadnt done anything wrong when it 
had blocked Mr Ss account and asked him for information. Metro also said it had closed 
Mr Ss account in line with the terms and conditions of his account. However, it 
acknowledged that its service had fallen short when Mr S had called the banks call centre 
about the block on his account and asked to speak to a manager. Metro said it was wrong 
when its staff told him that there wasnt a manager available. So, it apologised to Mr S for 
any upset this had caused him.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators reviewed the complaint.  
He said Metro hadnt treated Mr S unfairly when it had blocked and closed his account. And 
said it had done so in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Mr S disagreed. He 
said he hasnt been allowed to defend himself and Metro have acted as judge and jury 
accusing him of money laundering, which isnt right as hes never done anything illegal. So, 
he says Metro treated him unfairly when it blocked and closed his account. And that the 
investigator must be on the payroll of Metro because he didnt uphold his complaint. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to address Mr Ss comments that Metro has accused him of money laundering 
so should have reported the matter to the police. Our service is an informal alternative to the 
courts. And I cant make a finding as to whether the law has been broken, and I dont need 
to in order to decide this complaint. So, whilst the law is a relevant consideration , we dont 
look at complaints in the same way a court or the police might. Were able to reach an 
outcome based on what we believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I also appreciate Mr S was disappointed by the investigators opinion and I can see that he 
has provided a detailed response to what he said about his complaint. Id like to reassure 
Mr S that Ive considered the whole file and whats hes said. But Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because I 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. No discourtesy is intended by me in 
taking this approach. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr S and 
Metro have said before reaching my decision.
In response to the investigators view, Mr S has said he is concerned that the investigator is 
on the payroll of Metro bank - with the implication being that the bank is influencing our 
conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service 
our approach is to consider what both parties say and then reach our own independent 
conclusions on that evidence. That is what we have done in this complaint. If Mr S does not 
agree with our view, he does not have to accept it, and if he does not accept this final 
decision, he will be free to continue to pursue his concerns by other means should he wish 
to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how to go about doing that.
Having looked at all the evidence, including the information Metro and Mr S has now 
provided to this service, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Metro to 
block Mr Ss account. Fraud is a serious matter, and one way financial businesses and 
banks can help to tackle fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts when allegedly 
fraudulent payments are received into them. And thats what happened here. I should also 
add that Metro is not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of a fraud 
of financial crime before it decided to block his account.
Metro has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in 
line with what most financial businesses would do in the same situation. It also enabled Metro to consider how best to react to the report it had received from Mr Ts bank and what 
Mr S told them about the transactions that had been made on his account. Im also satisfied 
that in doing so Metro were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I 
accept, that Metros actions caused Mr S inconvenience when it blocked his account, I cant 
say it did anything wrong and treated him unfairly in doing so. 
Metro have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Ss account. The terms 
explain that the bank can close the account immediately and by providing two months 
notice. In this case Metro closed Mr Ss account with seven days notice. For Metro to act 
fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for immediate closure  and 
having looked at these terms, and all the evidence, including how Mr S was operating his 
account, and his explanation for the activity on his account, in my view that was reasonable. 
I say this because Mr S told Metro and this service that he had no knowledge about any of 
the money paid into his account by Mr T. Hes said he was completely unaware of all the 
transactions (sixty four in total) as he never checked his bank statement or account. But I 
dont think this can be true. I say this because after each payment was received into Mr Ss 
account from Mr T, the money was immediately transferred to another account in Mr Ss 
name. This would have required some awareness of the activity on the account. Mr S hasnt 
disputed these transactions. So, theres no plausible explanation for how any unknown third 
party was able to gain access to Mr Ss account over a period of a year and carry out these 
transactions. Its also unclear why anyone other than Mr S would move money from his 
Metro account into another account controlled by Mr S. It simply makes no sense. 
Mr S hasnt been able to offer any explanation for how an unknown third party was able to 
obtain his bank account details, which were needed to pay in the fraudulent funds. I think its 
unlikely that an unknown third party without any connection to Mr S wouldve been able to do 
this. I also think its most unlikely that an unknown third party would pay funds into Mr Ss 
account unless they were confident that they would be able to withdraw the money or 
transfer the funds to another account from which they could withdraw it. So, taken together 
this all suggests to me that Mr S knows rather more about the fraudulent activity on his 
account than hes been prepared to tell us or Metro.
So, when I weigh everything up, Im satisfied that Metro were entitled to close Mr Ss 
account as it has already done. And Im not persuaded Metro treated Mr S unfairly when 
they closed his account with seven days notice. Ive also kept in mind that Mr S appears to 
have had access to at least one other account, which I think wouldve minimised the impact 
of the seven day closure period. 
Finally, Mr S says he isnt happy that he couldnt speak to a manager when he called Metro 
and feels that he wasnt allowed to provide an explanation about the activity on his account 
and defend himself. Metro has accepted that the service it provided Mr S when he called the 
bank, fell short and it has apologised for telling M S that he wasnt able to speak to a 
manager. Im satisfied that an apology is a reasonable and fair way to resolve this aspect of 
Mr Ss complaint. So, I wont be asking Metro to do anything more. 
In summary, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Metro has acted unreasonably and 
treated Mr S unfairly when it blocked and closed his account. So, I wont be asking Metro to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman