DRN-3555988
The complaint and what happened
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to protect him from falling victim to 
an investment scam and subsequently refused to refund his loss. He made a debit card 
payment of £1,000 in June 2021 to a cryptocurrency exchange  B  to purchase 
cryptocurrency, before sending it on to a trading platform which turned out to be a scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr J accepts that he authorised the transaction in question. So, under the relevant 
regulations, he is considered liable unless theres evidence that HSBC could and 
should reasonably have done more to protect him against the risk of fraud and 
scams, and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
There wasnt, and to my knowledge still isnt, a duty on a payment service provider to 
check the regulatory status of a merchant before executing an authorised payment 
instruction. Although it isnt unreasonable to expect the payment service provider to 
pay attention to any warnings about the merchant from UK and overseas regulators, 
there were no regulator warnings about B at the time Mr J authorised the payment. 
And given the amount involved, I dont consider the payment as particularly unusual 
or suspicious such that it ought to have triggered HSBCs fraud detection systems. 
Afterall, it must balance the extent to which it intervenes in payments to try and 
prevent fraud against the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing or delaying legitimate 
transactions.  
Ive also considered whether HSBC could have done more to try and recover Mr Js 
money via a chargeback claim when it became aware of the situation. But a 
chargeback in this instance would have most likely failed, given the transaction Mr J 
used his HSBC card for was to pay B (a legitimate company) for the purchase of 
cryptocurrency, which was duly received. The loss Mr J has complained about 
occurred when he paid the cryptocurrency to the fraudulent broker/trader. So, he 
couldnt claim that he didnt receive the goods or services paid for from his HSBC 
account; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
In summary, I dont think HSBC ought to have prevented the authorised payment from being 
sent, and I dont think there was a viable route for it to raise a chargeback. I realise that this 
will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr J. But I can only fairly make an award if I 
think that HSBCs errors caused, or contributed to, his loss. In this case, I think that its the 
cruel actions of the scammers that caused the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman