DRN-2079863
The complaint
Mr I complains about lending made to him by HSBC UK Bank Plc, which it withdrew soon 
after it was made.
What happened
Mr I said he needed funding for studies. HSBC gave him a student overdraft, but then it 
said that his account was suspended, and closed, for not having any funds paid into it. He 
said he hadnt been given any time to make a payment into the account. Mr I wanted 
HSBC to remove any adverse marks on his credit file, so this didnt affect his financial 
position in future.
HSBC said Mr I opened his account on 2 August 2018. It gave him account information at 
the time, then wrote to him setting out the overdraft agreement on 3 August. On 6 August 
it wrote to him again to say no money had been paid into his account, and he needed to 
resume regular payments. It asked him to get in touch if he wasnt able to do that.
HSBC wrote again on 15 August to repeat that it expected to see regular payments into 
his account. It wanted to see those, if it was going to leave his overdraft in place. It said 
then that failure to respond to the letter or pay money into the account might result in 
further action, including cancellation of his arranged overdraft limit, cancellation of his 
debit card, and the issue of a formal notice for repayment of his borrowing.
On 10 September HSBC wrote to say it had cancelled his overdraft. HSBC didnt think it 
had done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said HSBC had written to 
Mr I to say he needed to make a payment into the account. The account was open for 
more than a month before it was moved to collections, and no payments were made 
immediately after that either. He didnt think the decision to close off the account was 
unfair. (Mr I appears to have interpreted this to mean that his account was closed at this 
stage, although in fact it was only finally closed some time later.)
Mr I disagreed, he said he was unemployed when he took out the account, and hed told 
HSBC that. He said he finished his studies on 7 September, and was actively looking for a 
job from then on. He said he was told his account had closed some time between 12 and 
16 September, so he was told about this before he got any letter.
Mr I said hed set up agreements to repay since then, but hadnt been able to meet them. 
He didnt think hed been told about requirements to fund the account when it was opened, 
and argued that this breached the rules about information that has to be given to 
borrowers. He said if he wasnt told about a requirement, he didnt think he should be held 
to it. He didnt think that HSBC had acted fairly when handling his case.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said the terms of the account had been given 
to Mr I, and the overdraft letter he was sent did say he would need to pay in money once a 
month. Our investigator thought this met the rules on what information needed to be given 
to Mr I. Our investigator also thought Mr I had been reminded of these requirements 
before his account was sent to collections.
Our investigator said HSBC had understood Mr I had an income of £4,800 per year. And 
he seemed to have declared the same level of income when he discussed this debt later 
with HSBC. Our investigator noted that Mr I told us he was unemployed at the time the 
account was opened, but our investigator said that if this had been clear to HSBC, then it 
wouldve been unlikely to lend him this money.
Our investigator didnt think it made a difference that the account was closed quickly, 
because Mr I hadnt ever made any repayments. He thought the account wouldve 
been closed anyway. Our investigator didnt think HSBC needed to do anything 
differently.
Mr I wrote again to say that he was complaining about the account closure, and any 
negative marks on his credit file. He said that wed referred to monthly payments having to 
be made, but hadnt said anything about the bank saying that they would offer financial 
support should I not be able to make monthly payments. He thought HSBC should at least 
have asked about his financial situation before closing the account. And he thought that 
more attention shouldve been paid to the rules on information that he shouldve been 
given when the account was opened. Mr I said that the income HSBC recorded mightve 
been his student finance, which was strictly just for his studies.
HSBC said if Mr I was complaining about the impact on his credit file, that would be a 
new complaint. He hadnt complained about that previously. And HSBC said it had 
offered Mr I support with his circumstances when it wrote to him.
Our investigator said hed open a new complaint for Mr I about the impact of this account 
closure on his credit file. And he said Mr I hadnt paid any money from student finances 
into the account either. HSBC would expect him to do that.
Our investigator still thought the rules had been followed, and Mr I was given the 
relevant information when he opened the account. So HSBC hadnt done anything 
wrong.
Mr I wrote again. He still didnt think the rules had been followed. He said we hadnt 
addressed the consequences of closing a student account just over a month after it 
was opened. He didnt think that any notice should start from earlier than a month after 
the account was opened. He said that the brochure he was given mentioned financial 
support options, but he hadnt been provided with these by HSBC.
Our investigator still thought HSBC had met the relevant rules on information to be given 
to borrowers, and he set out how he felt it did that, for both of the rules Mr I referred to. 
Our
investigator said the required points were part of the information Mr I was given. The 
lending conditions included a requirement for regular, monthly payments. And Mr I hadnt 
made any payment. He also didnt contact the bank to tell it he couldnt afford to pay.
Our investigator said Mr I hadnt shown that things wouldve been different if HSBC had 
waited longer to take steps. There was no requirement on HSBC to wait a month before 
any notice period started to run. Our investigator also said HSBC had offered support to Mr 
I, by asking it to get in touch if he couldnt pay.Mr I wrote back to say that banks need to give 30 days notice before closing an account 
and HSBC hadnt done that. He only found out about the closure when he spoke to HSBC. 
He said that any requirement to pay into the account monthly (which he could never have 
met anyway) couldnt be used to get round that requirement for notice for closing accounts. 
He said he couldnt see where the bank was entitled to ask for the money back at any time.
Mr I also said that decisions like transferring his account to collections and restricting it 
shouldnt have been taken without discussing this with him. And he said that the bank 
hadnt offered him support. When he did talk to HSBC, he said it made clear it wouldnt 
receive any support because his account was closed. Mr I wanted his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman.
Our investigator clarified that Mr Is account wasnt closed straight away. It was sent to 
collections, as it was overdrawn by £1,000 so he couldnt actually use it. He told Mr I where 
he could find the provisions setting out that the overdraft is repayable on demand. Advance 
notice of removal of the overdraft was given on 15 August. Our investigator said the 
account wasnt closed until well after a default notice was sent.
Our investigator said as Mr I had consistently given his income as £400 per month, he 
thought it was reasonable for HSBC to conclude that Mr I did have some income.
Our investigator said HSBC had invited Mr I to talk to it before it took steps to remove the 
overdraft or to restrict the account. The collections team had kept the account open for 
some time, allowing Mr I the opportunity to try to remedy the situation, but he wasnt able 
to. The account was finally closed in March 2019.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I asked further questions of both sides. As this is a 
complicated case, Ill start with a brief summary of the background, as we now know 
it to be. Then Ill divide up my findings into the key points.
Background
We know HSBC started a student account for Mr I, then removed the overdraft very 
soon after this. Both HSBC and Mr I have referred to this account being opened at 
the start of August 2018. But from statements HSBC have now sent us, I can see 
that the account was actually already open in 2012. (It may have been opened in 
this year, or considerably before this.) So the account must have been converted to 
a student account, rather than opened, in August 2018.
There are no transactions at all visible on this account between August 2012 and 
the accounts conversion to student status. Theres then one withdrawal, for the 
full overdraft amount on 3 August 2018, which was paid to a university. There are 
no further transactions after this.
The lending HSBC made to Mr IMr I has repeatedly challenged the information he was given when his account 
was opened. As Mr I himself has referred to a brochure he got when the account 
type was changed, I think he was given the student account welcome pack. This 
contains details of his overdraft, including that it was interest free. The pack does 
set out that the bank will usually require monthly repayments, and that overdrafts 
are repayable on demand. I dont think that HSBC has failed to provide Mr I with 
the relevant information when he changed this account to a student account.
Mr I has repeatedly told us that he didnt have any income at the time that the 
lending was made. But his application, and the income and expenditure forms 
that Mr I completed with HSBC after this lending was withdrawn, all record a 
monthly income of £400 per month. I think its likely Mr I told HSBC this was his 
income.
Mr I also told us that he was ending his studies in summer 2018. He said he 
needed the money from this overdraft to make a final payment to his university. I 
can see thats what the money was spent on.
It is difficult to understand why HSBC would lend Mr I £1,000 through a student 
overdraft, at the very end of his period of studies. HSBC has shown us that 
student accounts are usually converted to graduate accounts at the end of July of 
the year of graduation. Mr I told us he was due to graduate from this course in 
September 2018. And he has shown us proof of his student status, which confirms 
what he says about graduating in September 2018. But he was given a student 
account, with this overdraft, in August 2018. HSBCs rules and what Mr I has told 
us, suggest he was no longer eligible for it.
I think its likely that HSBC made a mistake when it converted this account to 
a student account, and agreed an interest free overdraft. That raises 
questions over whether Mr I shouldve been lent this money, and if not, then 
what HSBC should do now.
Ive explained I think its likely that Mr I told HSBC that he had an income of £400 
per month when it lent him money. I think Mr I also told HSBC that he was 
graduating shortly, and would be looking for work.
If I thought that HSBC had lent Mr I money irresponsibly, then I would be likely to 
say that it shouldnt make any profit out of this lending. So it shouldnt be able to 
charge him interest. But HSBC has never done that. The latest information I have 
says that Mr I still only owes the £1,000 he originally borrowed.
On the information I have, I cant say that this amount of lending was so clearly 
inappropriate or irresponsible that Mr I shouldnt have to pay it back at all. I dont 
think that HSBC has made a mistake by telling Mr I he does have to pay this back.
HSBC removing the overdraft
After Mr I used his overdraft to pay his university, HSBC then moved swiftly to 
query why Mr I wasnt paying any money into his account. Initially it asked him 
either to pay money in, or to contact it to discuss why not. Mr I didnt do either. 
HSBC then warned Mr I that the overdraft might be withdrawn, but Mr I still didnt 
contact it. He says he didnt get these letters. I think they were sent, and if Mr I 
didnt get them, that wouldnt be HSBCs fault.Mr I has queried why HSBC moved so quickly to remove the overdraft. Its not 
clear to me whether this happened because HSBC realised Mr I wasnt entitled to 
a student account, or if it happened because Mr Is account hadnt had any funds 
paid in, either as a student account or prior to this, for the last six years.
I do think that the removal of Mr Is overdraft happened quickly. And this could be 
unfair in some circumstances. If, for example, a customer had explained to their 
bank why payments were delayed, and was just about to make a payment when 
their overdraft was withdrawn, I might well say that was unreasonable.
But, like our investigator, I dont think that what HSBC did was unfair in this case. 
Thats because, like him, I dont think that the outcome wouldve been any 
different if HSBC had waited longer. Mr I has never funded this account, or made 
any payments towards his debt. Hes told us he just wasnt able to. So I think that 
if HSBC had given Mr I a longer grace period before asking him to make 
payments onto the account, then his overdraft would still have been removed. This 
would just have happened later.
HSBCs collections action
I initially suggested I wouldnt look at the issues Mr I encountered once his account 
was passed to HSBCs collections team. HSBC thought that the impact on Mr Is 
credit file should be a separate complaint. However, I think that if this was a 
separate complaint, my conclusions above would have a significant impact on it. 
And I also think that its in the interests of both sides to deal with these issues now. 
So Ill deal with this here.
Mr I said HSBC hadnt offered him financial support when he got into difficulties. I 
wasnt quite clear what Mr I meant by financial support. HSBC hasnt got to make 
payments to Mr I if hes in financial difficulties. It does have to offer him support 
with managing his finances in those circumstances. And I think by asking him 
throughout this process to get in touch with it, HSBC was seeking to offer that 
support. Because HSBC did that, I also dont think it took steps without giving him 
any opportunity to discuss with it what was happening.
I think HSBC acted appropriately in contacting Mr I, and asking him to set up a 
repayment plan. Mr I accepts that he hasnt made any payments. So I dont think 
HSBC made a mistake when it then decided to default this debt, and close the 
account. And Ive seen the correspondence HSBC sent Mr I about this. I dont think 
that HSBC failed to give Mr I notice of the steps it was taking.
Mr I also wanted us to consider the impact this had on his credit file. But because I 
dont think that HSBC made a mistake by defaulting Mr Is debt, or closing his 
account, I dont think that HSBC would have to take steps to remedy any adverse 
impact on Mr Is credit file.
There is one point on Mr Is credit file that would have been different if HSBC had 
given Mr I more time to repay this debt. If HSBC had given him longer to pay the 
money back, his date of default would be more recent than March 2019. But I 
wont ask HSBC to change the date of default on this debt now, as that would be 
to Mr Is detriment.
I know Mr I will be disappointed, but despite having found that HSBC made 
mistakes in this case, I dont think those mistakes were to Mr Is detriment. So I dont think that HSBC has to do any more now. And that also means that I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC didnt reply. Mr I wrote to make some further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I said he thought Id misunderstood the reasons surrounding the complaint. His points are 
set out in italics below, and I will comment on each in turn.
Mr I said he wasnt complaining that he had to repay the overdraft fee. He said anyone who 
opens an account with an overdraft fee expects that. 
Im not sure what Mr I means by this. As I set out in my provisional decision, Mr I has never 
been charged any fees for the lending HSBC made to him. All HSBC has ever asked is for 
him to pay back the money it lent him. And Ive said its not unfair for HSBC to do that.
Mr I said he had made it clear that there was an initial agreement to allow payments to this 
debt to be placed on hold. 
HSBC did put a hold on charges and interest for two months, after Mr I spoke with the bank 
in late October and told it he was in financial difficulties. HSBC wrote to Mr I then, and said 
that it wouldnt ask him to make any repayments for a while, but encouraged him to pay if he 
could. It also said that it would be managing his account in line with its normal procedures. It 
issued a letter during this time, telling him that his account was moving towards default, and 
saying that credit reference agencies would be informed of this. 
This payment hold ran until January 2019, when HSBC wrote to ask Mr I to update it on his 
financial position, and started to call him about the debt again. But HSBC has, as Ive 
explained, never applied any fees or interest to this debt. 
 
Mr I said when he wanted to then agree a payment plan with the bank, it told him that this 
payment plan would not stop the bank from entering a notice on his credit file. And it 
wouldnt prevent the bank from moving his account on to third party debt collectors. Mr I said 
that after hearing this, he made clear that he would wait for the investigation to be completed 
by our service  before he would discuss anything further, because his aim was to avoid any 
of this being marked on his credit file, or having to deal with any third party debt collector 
before he agreed any payment plan with the bank.
Mr I said that wed referred to the fact that he hadnt made a payment, but hadnt referred to 
the reasons why not. He thought that both these points should be considered, otherwise 
inequities could be found in the final ruling.
I hadnt previously considered the above argument, that Mr I had refused to repay because 
he was worried about the effect on his credit file, because Mr I hasnt said this to us before. On 2 December, Mr I emailed us and said that 
there has been agreements, but due to me not being able to meet them, I have 
informed the bank of this fact, which has seen a recent agreement struck between 
the bank and myself. I aim too keep this, and hope that it will be affordable for 
myself. 
And on 18 December, he said 
I was unable to make payments due to other responsibilities that I had. 
That doesnt seem to me to be consistent with what Mr I says above, that he refused to 
make repayments because he was concerned his credit file would still be affected. 
It is usual, when a bank makes an agreement to accept small repayments towards a debt, 
for the bank to explain to the customer whether their credit file will be affected by the 
arrangement. And if the payments are much smaller than originally envisaged, then its 
common for this to show on someones credit file. Thats not automatically unfair. 
But I dont think I need to reach a view on whether this wouldve been unfair in this particular 
case, because Mr I has previously told us that this isnt why he didnt make the repayments 
hed agreed. Hes repeatedly told us he just couldnt afford to. 
Mr I said that Id found the bank account was closed in March 2019. But he said he was told 
in September that he would not be able to make payments into that account because it had 
been closed. And he said hed tried to use the card at a cash machine, and was unable to 
utilise any of the services that are available to customers. So regardless of what the bank 
told us, he said he would strongly disagree and say that the account had stopped functioning 
as an active bank account from 10th September 2018.
I think this is in line with the position as our investigator set it out for Mr I. His account wasnt 
closed in September. It was sent to collections, as it was overdrawn by £1,000 so he couldnt 
use it. But I dont think that means he was unable to make payments towards this debt.
Mr I said he didnt know how HSBC had reached the figure it held for his income. He said it 
might be his student finance, divided over the year. He said that it was common for
students to not be employed at some point during their studies. And he had made clear to 
the bank that he was unemployed. He had no wage.
Ive said that I think Mr I told HSBC he had an income of £400 per month. But I note what Mr 
I says now about not having any income at all, and Ive assessed what he is saying now with 
this in mind.
Mr I said hed asked the bank to lend him money, and after a thorough check he was found 
to be eligible. So he didnt believe that the bank acted wrongly in allowing him to benefit from 
its student lending. He said that helps students facing financial hardships, like he was, and 
he hoped the bank didnt stop this. But he was appealing the banks actions, because he had 
been treated unfairly. 
I havent commented on whether HSBC should engage in student lending. That isnt part of 
my role. I have commented on the lending HSBC made to Mr I. I said that, given Mr I was 
due to graduate in September 2018, and HSBC told us that student accounts are usually 
converted to graduate accounts at the end of July of the year of graduation, it is doubtful 
whether he in particular was eligible for a student account, and student overdraft, at the time 
it was given. I dont think that calls into question HSBCs overall student lending. Mr I said he hoped Id consider this, and reach a different view. 
I hope the above shows that I have considered each of Mr Is points. But I havent changed 
my mind. I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr l to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman