DRN-2078950
The complaint
Mr A complains about problems that came up when he tried to transfer money from an 
account in the USA to his current account with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). 
What happened
To transfer the money from his American account, Mr A needed to fill in a form. The form 
asked for a routing number  a feature of American banking. Mr A called Nationwide on 
27 December 2019 to ask for this, but they said hed need bank identifier codes (BICs) 
instead. 
Nationwide dont directly receive international money transfers  theres an intermediary 
bank involved as well. Nationwide explained this to Mr A, and gave him their BIC and one for 
the intermediary bank. 
The American bank went through the details Mr A had put on his form. They noted the 
intermediary bank was a different business to Nationwide. Mr A decided to check this with 
Nationwide, so he called them again, at 3:45pm on New Years Eve. But Mr A found all but 
the phone line for lost or stolen cards had closed early that day, at 3pm. 
Mr A tried again on 2 January, and was again told hed need the two BICs. Nationwide said 
on this call that the BIC for the intermediary was only needed if the form asked for it. 
Mr A complained. He felt Nationwide shouldnt have reduced their telephone service on New 
Years Eve, as it wasnt a national holiday. And he felt they hadnt given him the correct 
information initially to fill in the form to do the transfer. He also complained that hed called 
the number to make a complaint on 2 January, but felt he wasnt speaking to a complaint 
handler. 
Nationwide said it was a business decision to reduce the telephone service on New Years 
Eve, and said they had put a warning about doing so on their website. They also said the 
complaint process they used had call takers take the details of any complaints and then pass 
these to a specialist team. Theyve also said that the details given to Mr A about what was 
needed to transfer money internationally were accurate. 
Our investigator agreed with Nationwides response, but Mr A still wasnt happy. He noted 
that a transfer done in 2018 had used slightly different details, and gone through without a 
problem. He felt it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have given him the intermediary 
banks details. He also questioned whether the website had said about the phone line 
closing early.
As its unresolved, the matters come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr A will probably be disappointed to hear it, Ive found that Nationwides 
service was reasonable on all parts of this complaint. Ill go through each point in turn to 
explain. 
Its true that New Years Eve wasnt a national holiday. But that doesnt mean Nationwide 
had to be open at specific times that day. They could reasonably make a business decision 
to change their level of service. And while I accept other businesses might have decided to 
handle New Years Eve differently to Nationwide, that doesnt make what they did 
unreasonable.
Theres been discussion about the notice given on Nationwides website before they closed 
parts of their phone line service. Its a shame Nationwide havent been able to show us a 
record of what was on there, but I dont really see this is the issue. Mr A wasnt complaining 
that he expected the phone lines to be open because of something Nationwide said on their 
website. His argument is more that New Years Eve is not a national holiday, so he expected 
things to be as they always were. Nationwide dont look to have set that expectation for 
Mr A, so I find no issue in their not meeting it. 
Turning to the BICs and other details Nationwide gave Mr A, our investigation has confirmed 
these were accurate. So with the details Nationwide gave Mr A on the 27 December calls, it 
should have been possible for this transfer to go through, as the details were accurate. 
Theyd also explained to Mr A that they used an intermediary bank. And this detail is noted 
on every account statement and a section of Nationwides website. A further call on New 
Years Eve would simply have confirmed the details Mr A already had. 
I dont see this then as an issue with the accuracy of the information Nationwide gave Mr A. 
Instead, it seems like either the form Mr A had to fill in wasnt clear about what it needed, or 
the American bank got confused that there was an intermediary bank. I dont see either of 
those issues as Nationwides doing though. They didnt write the American banks form, and 
they shouldnt be held responsible for another business being confused by details that were 
accurate. 
Similarly, the fact that the American bank was able to process the transfer more efficiently 
with the details used in 2018, doesnt make the details Nationwide gave in 2019 any less 
correct. I come back to the point that Nationwide could reasonably expect another financial 
service provider to be able to understand the accurate banking details theyd given Mr A. 
As a final point, Ive thought about how Nationwide dealt with Mr As complaint. I see he 
raised his issues at the start of January, and received a response by the middle of the 
month. I see that as a process thats listened to Mr As concerns and responded promptly. I 
find thats consistent with a reasonable complaint handling process. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman