DRN-3320147
The complaint
Mr B complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
rejecting a claim under his pet insurance policy, on the grounds that the policy didnt provide 
cover for issues caused by a pets behavioural problems.
What happened
Mr B had a cat covered by a pet insurance policy with Red Sands. In May 2021 Mr B noticed 
the cat attempting to urinate inside his house and a local pet store recommended a urinary 
health product. But later the same day Mr B took the cat to an emergency vet as hed 
noticed blood in the cats urine. The vet diagnosed cystitis and administered treatment.
In accordance with the claims procedure for the policy, the vet submitted a claim form for the 
cost of treatment to Red Sands. Red Sands then contacted Mr B to say that theyd assessed 
the claim but were declining it as the condition had been referred to as stress related 
cystitis. Red Sands said that this arose from a behavioural problem with Mr Bs cat, adding 
that, under the terms of the policy, treatment of conditions arising from behavioural problems 
was excluded. 
Unhappy at Red Sands position, Mr B contacted the vet who treated his cat and they told 
Red Sands that the cat had shown symptoms of cystitis, which they considered to be a case 
of idiopathic1 cystitis. The vet added that while stress plays a role in triggering that type of 
cystitis, it wasnt a behavioural problem (but pathophysiological2). Red Sands considered 
what the vet had said but concluded that it didnt prove the condition wasnt behaviour 
related. They said they would review the claim if Mr B could provide further evidence and 
tests to prove that the cause wasnt due to stress.
Mr B complained to Red Sands, but they didnt uphold his complaint. In their final response 
they said that notes on the claim submitted from the visit to the vet indicated that the cat had 
been stressed due to fox cubs in the garden of Mr Bs property and that the cats medical 
history included reference to the cat having been seen with stress-related cystitis. Red 
Sands went on to say that as the condition was stress-related, the policy didnt provide 
cover, pointing to the policy exclusion for the cost of treatment for behavioural problems. 
Red Sands also said that as the vet had given no cause of the cystitis, they considered the 
cystitis was stress-related and so fell within the exclusion. Based on this they maintained 
their decision to decline the claim.
Unhappy at Red Sands response, Mr B complained to this service. The main part of his 
complaint was that Red Sands had unfairly declined his claim. He maintained that the cats 
condition wasnt the result of stress or a behavioural problem, so Red Sands had unfairly 
applied the behavioural problems exclusion. He wanted Red Sands to accept his claim and 
pay for the cost of treatment.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He concluded the evidence from the vets 
case notes was that the condition of Mr Bs cat was related to stress, despite the further 
1 Meaning unknown cause (source: Miriam-Webster Dictionary)
2 Defined as the effects of disease on body function (source: Collins Dictionary of Medicine)  
statement that the cystitis wasnt a behavioural condition. The investigator noted that the 
policy definition of a behavioural condition was a change in the normal behaviour of a pet 
indicating the pet experiencing a negative emotional state. Based on the evidence the 
investigator concluded that it was reasonable to conclude that the cat was experiencing 
stress and that consequently there had been a change in the cats behaviour. Therefore, Red 
Sands had acted in line with the policy terms and conditions in declining the claim. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. The key reason for disagreeing was the vets view that it wasnt a behavioural 
issue, so it was unfair for Red Sands to reject the claim under the behavioural clause.
In my findings, I disagreed with the investigators view that Red Sands had acted fairly in 
declining the claim. I wasnt persuaded by Red Sands argument that the vets view that the 
cystitis wasnt caused by a behavioural issue didnt prove that the condition wasnt behaviour 
related. I noted the vets clear opinion that, while stress played a part in cystitis, the case 
was idiopathic cystitis (there wasnt a clear cause) and that behavioural problems werent the 
cause. I also noted the approach of this service is that the onus is on insurers to show that 
an exclusion applies, I didnt think it reasonable for Red Sands to say the vets conclusion 
didnt prove the condition wasnt behaviour related.
Based on these considerations, I concluded that Red Sands hadnt, on the balance of 
probabilities, done enough to show that they acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
exclusion to decline the claim. 
Because I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands has acted fairly towards Mr B. 
The main issue in Mr Bs complaint is whether Red Sands acted fairly in applying the policy 
exclusion for behavioural problems to decline the claim. Mr B says that they acted unfairly in 
applying the exclusion, pointing to the statements from his vet that the problem (cystitis) 
wasnt caused by a behavioural issue. Red Sands view is that other evidence from the case 
notes and claim indicate that the cystitis was stress-related and that this meant that theyd 
acted fairly in applying the exclusion. Red Sands also argue that as no cause of the cystitis 
had been provided, they considered it was stress-related and so fell within the exclusion. 
Ive considered both views carefully. Where a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on 
them to show that an insured event (peril) applies. In this case, theres no doubt that Mr Bs 
cat had a condition that required treatment, for which the vet submitted a claim (and 
supporting case notes). But where an insurer relies on an exclusion to decline a claim, the 
onus is on them to show the exclusion applies - it isnt for the policyholder to show that it 
doesnt apply.
The wording of the exclusion applied by Red Sands is contained within Section 1: Vet Fees 
of the policy, under the heading 1.3 Exclusions, which states:
The following are excluded from cover:1.3.12 The cost of any treatment for behavioural problems, training or therapy of 
for any conditions arising out of the same: 
The policy doesnt specifically define behavioural problems, but it defines behavioural 
condition as:
a change in the normal behaviour of your pet that signals your pet is experiencing 
a negative emotional state.
Red Sands maintain that the cystitis was related to stress, pointing to the case notes that 
mention stress as well as the medication prescribed being to reduce stress. Red Sands also 
say that the vets view that the cystitis wasnt caused by a behavioural issue didnt prove that 
the condition wasnt behaviour related. 
Ive considered this view carefully, but Im not persuaded by it. While the claim form and 
associated medical history do refer to stress, the specific diagnosis on the case notes simply 
states cystitis. Ive also considered the vets clear opinion that, while stress plays a part in 
cystitis, having examined the cat at the time of the treatment the case was considered to be 
idiopathic cystitis (so there wasnt a clear cause). The vet also states that, in their opinion, 
behavioural problems werent the cause. In considering the vets view, Red Sands say that 
that as no cause of the cystitis had been provided, it didnt prove the condition wasnt 
behaviour related. However, given our approach is that the onus is on insurers have to show 
that an exclusion applies, I dont think it was reasonable for Red Sands to say that the vets 
conclusion didnt prove that the condition wasnt behaviour related.
Based on these considerations, Ive concluded that Red Sands havent, on the balance of 
probabilities, done enough to show that they acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
exclusion to decline the claim. Given this conclusion, to put things right I think Red Sands 
cant rely on the exclusion to decline the claim and should assess the claim in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I 
intend to require Red Sands Insurance (Europe) limited to:
Assess the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Mr B didnt respond by the date requested for comments.
Red Sands responded to say that they had no further information to provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
 
As neither Mr B nor Red Sands have provided any further information or substantive 
comments, I havent changed my view to uphold Mr Bs complaint and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require 
Red Sands Insurance (Europe) limited to:
Assess the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman