DRN-2879195
The complaint
Mrs S & Mr S complain that Cumberland Building Society (Cumberland) made changes to 
their savings account, resulting in less favourable terms.
What happened
Mrs S & Mr S says in September 2019 Cumberland wrote to them to advise the terms of 
their existing savings account were changing resulting in a reduced interest rate and more 
importantly that they now needed to give 30 days-notice for any withdrawals. Mrs S & Mr S 
says this was inconvenient for them and at this time in their lives they do not wish to have to 
make alternative  financial arrangements to manage their daily affairs. Mrs S & Mr S says 
they are loyal customers of Cumberland and do not feel they should have to give 30 days-
notice and want Cumberland to remove this requirement.
Cumberland says they gave Mrs S & Mr S sufficient notice of the changes to the terms and 
conditions of their savings account. It says they have also suggested alternative 
arrangements, to overcome Mrs Ss & Mr Ss concerns. Cumberland says they have done 
nothing wrong here.  
Mrs S & Mr S werent happy with Cumberlands response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Cumberland were within their rights to alter the terms of its savings products and that 
wasnt something this service could ask them to change  that was the role of the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mrs S & Mr S werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating for Mrs S & Mr S to learn the terms of their savings 
account were to change, meaning it would offer lower interest returns. More importantly to 
them, it also meant going forward, they had to give 30 days-notice on all future withdrawals 
or incur interest penalties. When looking at this complaint I will consider if Cumberland acted 
unfairly when changing the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss & Mr Ss savings account.
Mrs Ss & Mr Ss issue here centres around the inconvenience caused to them by the 
change in the 30 day-notice period they must now provide, each time they wish to make 
withdrawals from their account. Mrs S & Mr S have explained to this service they make 
regular modest cash withdrawals, and this helps them to manage their day to day finances. 
Mrs S & Mr S says they feel Cumberlands reasons behind the changes to the terms of their 
savings account, are in Cumberlands interests only.  
Mrs S & Mr S also make mention that these changes have also added to their 
inconvenience, given the backdrop of the Covid pandemic, as their local Cumberland branch 
wasnt operating to its full opening hours. Its fair to say the backdrop of the pandemic here 
meant that many businesses faced problems that resulted in inconvenience to its customers, 
so its important that this is taken into account when trying to establish what is fair and 
reasonable to impartially resolve a complaint. And here, while Mrs S & Mr S suffered some 
inconvenience as the branch opening times had changed, I am satisfied this was 
unavoidable due to the problems caused by the pandemic.
What is important here is while the changes to the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss & Mr Ss 
savings account were less favourable to them, thats not to say Cumberland cant make 
changes to its products and services, from time to time. I can see Cumberland gave 
reasonable notice in writing to Mrs S & Mr S of these changes and did attempt to find 
practical solutions to help them going forward. I say this because Cumberland suggested 
Mrs S & Mr S could either, make larger pre notified withdrawals less frequently, or open a 
secondary savings account alongside their main savings, to cover their day to day expenses 
- reducing any interest penalties as a result. 
Although I do understand that Mrs S & Mr S dont feel they wish to make these changes at 
this time in their life, my role isnt to tell Cumberland what products and services they must 
offer and what terms should apply to them. The investigator has explained the extent of our 
powers here and mentioned the FCA regulate how businesses like Cumberland should 
operate. I understand Mrs S & Mr S did refer this matter to the FCA and they informed them 
this service should look at individual cases such as these  which we have. 
While they may not wish to do so, I am satisfied Mrs S & Mr S could consider other options 
available to them with other banks or building societies or take up the offer of a meeting with 
a Cumberland advisor to establish the best outcome to meet their daily needs. Cumberlands 
offer to do this is a fair and reasonable solution in the circumstances. It follows, while Mrs S 
& Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Cumberland 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman