DRN-4223030
The complaint
Mrs D complains because Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) stopped 
paying her income protection insurance claim. 
What happened
Mrs D is insured under a group income protection insurance policy, provided by L&G. Mrs D 
first became absent from work in 2021 and L&G began paying a claim for incapacity benefit.
In October 2022, after reviewing the claim, L&G said it wouldnt pay any further incapacity 
benefit after January 2023. L&G said this was because it thought Mrs Ds symptoms no 
longer met the policy definition of incapacity. When Mrs D complained, L&G reviewed 
additional medical evidence but didnt change its position.
Unhappy, Mrs D brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said she didnt think L&G 
needed to recommence paying Mrs Ds claim. Mrs D didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion and provided further medical evidence. As no resolution was reached, Mrs Ds 
complaint has now been referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my decision about Mrs Ds complaint. 
The policy which Mrs D is insured under pays a benefit if Mrs D is incapacitated by an illness 
or injury so that she is unable to undertake all occupations which L&G consider appropriate 
to her experience, training or education. So, Mrs D must be unable to carry out not only her 
own occupation, but any suited occupations too. 
I understand Mrs D says her medical condition hasnt improved since the claim was first 
paid. L&G initially accepted Mrs Ds claim based on limited medical evidence. It may be the 
case that, if L&G had asked for more medical information at the outset, Mrs Ds claim might 
not have been paid at all. L&G is entitled to review Mrs Ds claim at regular, reasonable 
intervals to satisfy itself that she meets the policy criteria for a benefit to be paid. This 
includes requesting up-to-date medical evidence. The issue which I need to decide is 
whether L&G has demonstrated, based on the available medical evidence, that Mrs D 
doesnt meet the policy definition of incapacity and that she could work in a suited 
occupation. 
Ive considered all the medical evidence that has been provided, but Im only referencing the 
evidence which is material to my final decision. In particular, evidence relating to the period 
of time when Mrs Ds claim was being paid isnt relevant to this decision. 
Mrs D has provided statements of fitness to work from her GP, saying that she is unable to 
work due to osteoarthritis. While these statements do carry some evidential weight, I 
wouldnt usually consider that statements based on self-reported symptoms are sufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that a policyholder cannot carry out their own, or any suited, 
occupation. The threshold for a GP to issue such statements and/or the criteria which Mrs D 
would need to meet to receive state benefits are not necessarily the same as the policy 
criteria for a claim to be paid.
Ive carefully considered the letter from Mrs Ds GP dated 6 June 2023, which says that Mrs 
D has been certified as unfit to undertake any form of work. But I also need to take into 
account the much more detailed Functional Capacity Evaluations which were carried out on 
3 August 2022 and 13 September 2022. These reports conclude that Mrs Ds reported levels 
of disability and pain are not barriers which prevent her from returning to work in a suited 
occupation. And the reports specifically comment on Mrs Ds frequent ability to sit and 
occasional ability to stand during the working day, with regular and frequent breaks. 
The Transferable Skills Analysis report dated 7 October 2022 identified four possible suited 
occupations which Mrs D could carry out, with reasonable adjustments provided by the 
employer, based on her abilities as set out in the Functional Capacity Evaluations. 
Based on the level of detail contained within them about Mrs Ds functional abilities, I think 
the reports of 3 August 2022, 13 September 2022 and 7 October 2022 are more persuasive 
than the statements of fitness to work and the letter provided by Mrs Ds GP. 
I dont doubt Mrs Ds diagnosis or that she is unwell, and Im very sorry to hear about the 
levels of pain she experiences. But I dont think the available medical evidence supports a 
conclusion that Mrs D meets the policy definition of incapacity and is unable to carry out a 
suited occupation. This means I dont think L&G has acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
stopping Mrs Ds claim payments and I wont be directing L&G to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman