DRN-3948250
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed his account. He would 
like his funds in the account and compensation.
What happened
Mr D had an account with Halifax.
Halifax received notification that their customer was deceased, and they released the funds 
in the account to the next of kin and closed the account. Later Mr D contacted Halifax to 
clarify the situation.
Halifax asked Mr D for information to show his identity. Mr D provided a number of 
documents. Halifax were unhappy with the documents provided as there were discrepancies 
in these. Halifax didnt allow Mr D access to the funds in the account.
Mr D was unhappy with Halifaxs decision, so he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things. She thought Halifax was right to request the 
documents that they had and as there were concerns about the discrepancy in those 
documents Halifax was right to deny Mr D access to the funds in the account.
Mr D was unhappy with the view. As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr D and 
Halifax have said before reaching my decision.
This is an unusual situation; Halifax closed the accounts as it received information and 
documentation to show that the account holder Mr D had passed away. Halifax have agreed 
they shouldnt have released the funds to the next of kin who sent the documents. 
Mr D has subsequently contacted Halifax. He has said that he would like access to the funds 
in his account. Halifax have agreed they shouldnt have released the funds to the next of kin. 
Halifax like other financial businesses is subject to UK legislation which places extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish the 
purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there may be 
penalties if they dont. Financial institutions like Halifax must also satisfy themselves of the 
identity of their customers. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. 
Halifax have asked Mr D to provide documents relating to his identity in view of the situation 
here. They are perfectly entitled to do so, and I would expect them to ask for these 
documents. I dont think they have treated Mr D unfairly by asking for this information. 
Mr D has provided Halifax with documents relating to his identity. Having reviewed the 
documents Halifax isnt satisfied because of discrepancies in the documents provided. I 
have looked at the documents myself and I can understand why Halifax has concerns. 
Halifax is responsible for safeguarding their customers money and in asking for the 
documents and considering what has been supplied I would expect them to request further 
clarification to verify Mr Ds identity. I dont think they are acting unfairly here.
I am satisfied that Halifax are entitled to deny Mr D access to the funds in the account until 
Halifax are able to ascertain Mr Ds identity and therefore establish his entitlement to the 
funds in his account. Im satisfied they are not acting unfairly, and I wont be asking them to 
do anything else here.  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman