DRN-2312889
The complaint
Miss B has complained NewDay Ltd, trading as Debenhams Storecard, is expecting her to 
pay for transactions she didnt make.
What happened
In March 2019 Miss B took out a Debenhams credit card when she was in a store. Soon 
after she got sent her permanent card. At this time Miss B was in a relationship. Her partner 
was extremely controlling and threatened her. Within a few months she realised hed taken 
her Debenhams card and used it without her consent. She complained to NewDay.
Initially Miss B told NewDay shed not taken out the card at all. As they knew she had, they 
felt her credibility was in doubt. They found it difficult to believe shed not completed the 
disputed transactions herself. 
Miss B was struggling with the end of her relationship and finding out the type of person her 
partner was. She brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence. He saw no reason to doubt Miss Bs testimony. 
Some of the transactions  after those that Miss B admitted shed made  had been made in 
a different physical location to Miss Bs so he asked NewDay to cancel three disputed 
transactions. As thered been a period when Miss B had made no payments towards her 
debt, NewDay had added a default to her credit record. Our investigator also asked NewDay 
to remove that and pay Miss B for the distress caused to her.
NewDay remained sceptical about what happened. Theyve asked an ombudsman to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Miss B has been represented in her complaint by her mother. Shes told us about what 
Miss B  and her family  has been through because of Miss Bs former relationship. The 
police have been involved and supported Miss B as a victim of domestic abuse. Throughout 
this process NewDay has been kept informed of this.
So I find it surprising NewDay has continued to dispute what happened. I appreciate firstly 
Miss B told them shed not opened the account and was unclear what transactions she 
carried out. But I think NewDay should have considered what Miss B went through. Its clear 
shes young and extremely upset about her experience. I dont believe the inconsistencies in 
her story should imply her story overall is not convincing.
The key issue is around consent. There are three disputed transactions made in late March 
2019 either online or using the card and PIN. Miss B has explained how her partner took her 
card. Her PIN wasnt kept separately so easy for her partner to locate. I suspect the ease of 
locating the PIN wouldnt have limited his ability to use her card without the PIN. The large 
disputed transaction is for £250 and was completed online so no PIN would have been 
required.
I think there is enough evidence, based on Miss Bs and her familys testimony, to suggest 
Miss B didnt authorise the three disputed transactions. Im also aware that throughout the 
period since she took out the card, she has tried to make payments and limit any damage to 
her credit record.
In coming to this conclusion, Ive also noted NewDays representations to our investigator 
following his initial view of 15 July 2020. This includes the fact Miss B most likely registered 
her card online with NewDay. I dont believe this impacts my decision.
Putting things right
Ive already confirmed I believe there were three disputed transactions. These amount to 
£266.49 as noted on Miss Bs first statement dated 4 April 2019. These amounts will need to 
be credited back to Miss Bs account.  
NewDay has also added interest, late payment fees and charges to Miss Bs account.
Im aware that by mid-July 2020 Miss B had repaid £349.30 which far exceeds her own 
transactions of £233.13. If shes still paying £10 a month, there will be even more to repay 
her.
NewDay can add interest at the account rate to Miss Bs transactions until she repaid this 
amount in full. After that theyll need to refund money Miss B has repaid and add 8% simple 
interest to that.
NewDay wrote to Miss B in March 2020 confirming a default was to be added to her credit 
record. Based on the repayments I can see Miss B has made (which NewDay confirmed in 
an email on 8 October 2020), I believe these will always have exceeded any requirement to 
make a minimum repayment so any adverse records, including the default, on Miss Bs 
credit file will have to be removed.
Our investigator felt that NewDay should pay Miss B £100 in compensation. I agree this 
would be fair. I say this mainly because NewDay were slow in passing Miss Bs account to 
their team managing vulnerable consumers and the impact this had on her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct NewDay Ltd, trading as 
Debenhams, to:
Deduct transactions totalling £266.49 from Miss Bs account, including related 
interest and any fees;
Refund any money Miss B has paid in excess of her £233.13 debt and associated 
interest;
Add 8% simple interest to that money from the dates she paid it until the date of 
settlement; 
Remove any negative data, including a default, from Miss Bs credit record; and
Pay Miss B £100 for the trouble caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman