DRN-3601278
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) dealt with 
his request for assistance as a result of financial difficulties.
What happened
On 19 April 2017, Mr P was supplied with a used commercial vehicle through a hire 
purchase agreement with VWFS. The agreement was for £22,500 over 46 months; with 45 
monthly repayments of £399.72, and a final payment of £8,560 (plus a £10 Option to 
Purchase Fee) if Mr P wanted to keep the vehicle.
In May 2020, Mr Ps income was affected because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. 
And VWFS granted him a payment deferral (otherwise known as a payment holiday) for the 
payments that were due between April and August 2020. In September 2020, Mr P let 
VWFS know that hed been made redundant and asked for a further payment deferral. But 
VWFS declined this request as they no longer thought it was a suitable option. Instead they 
gave Mr P 60-days breathing space and explained his options to end the agreement.
In December 2020, Mr P contacted VWFS about his situation, and discussed repaying his 
arrears. He paid token payments of £25 in January and February 2021, before making a 
three-month payment arrangement from March 2021. Mr P made these payments and then 
stopped paying. VWFS defaulted and terminated the agreement in October 2021. Mr P then 
cleared the amount outstanding in December 2021.
Mr P wasnt happy with what had happened and complained to VWFS. He was also 
unhappy that VWFS were only contactable by phone; that theyd provided incorrect 
settlement figures, which made it difficult for him to sell the vehicle; that theyd tried to take 
the £2,500 arrears payment by direct debit, causing him to be overdrawn; and that theyd 
passed his account over to a debt collection agency.
VWFS partially upheld Mr Ps complaint, waiving the £252 debt collection agency fee and 
offering him £253 compensation. Mr P wasnt happy with VWFSs response, and he brought 
his complaint to the financial ombudsman service for investigation. 
Our investigator said VWFS had treated Mr P with forbearance and due consideration while 
he was in financial difficulties. VWFS hadnt terminated the agreement until three months 
after the final payment was due and theyd confirmed the amount outstanding on at least two 
occasions, which gave Mr P a reasonable amount of time to sell the vehicle. So, the 
investigator didnt think VWFS had treated Mr P unfairly.
The investigator said Mr P was in contact with VWFS by both phone and email throughout 
the situation, so they didnt think VWFS made it difficult for Mr P to contact them. And they 
also said that VWFS had instructed the debt collection agency to collect the debt on their 
behalf but remained the legal owner. So, any payments Mr P made to either VWFS or the 
debt collection agency were applied to his outstanding amount.
However, the investigator said that VWFS attempted to collect the £2,500.62 final payment, 
by direct debit, in error; they delayed sending a copy of the agreement to Mr P when asked; 
they told Mr P to contact the debt collection agency before theyd transferred the 
administration of the account; they incorrectly told Mr P that he owed £253; and they sent 
someone to collect the vehicle after Mr P had repaid the outstanding amount.
But the investigator said that VWFS had waived a fee of £252 and offered Mr P £253 
compensation. Which they thought was reasonable. And they didnt think that VWFS needed 
to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think there had been enough consideration 
of the points hed made. Specifically, Mr P:
didnt think that 60 days breathing space was sufficient, as hed already paid a large 
percentage of the amount owing under the agreement;
said hed always kept VWFS informed about what was happening, and he didnt try 
to avoid his obligations;
didnt think VWFS acted reasonably by asking him to repay the arrears over a 12-
month period, as hed just started a new job and hed offered them what he could 
afford;
was unhappy that there were long wait times to speak to VWFS when he called them 
at lunchtimes, which was the only time he was able to speak to them;
thought VWFS acted illegally when they tried to repossess the vehicle without a court 
order;
didnt think VWFS had acted reasonably by not providing him with a list of garages 
where he could part-exchange the vehicle; and
was unhappy that the final statement they sent him showed that he still owed them 
money, three months after clearing the agreement;
Because of this, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr P was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
When someone is having financial difficulties, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
requires that financial businesses deal with them with forbearance and due consideration. In 
addition to this, the FCA issued specific guidance on 27 April 2020, about how to deal with 
customers who were affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.When Mr P first contacted VWFS about being furloughed, this was before the FCA had 
issued their Covid-19 guidance. So, VWFS offered him 60-days breathing space and asked 
him to complete an income and expenditure form, to see what assistance they could offer. 
However, once the FCA Covid-19 guidance was in place, they arranged for a payment 
deferral. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.
In September 2020, Mr P advised VWFS that hed been made redundant, and asked about a 
further payment deferral. However, payment deferrals were designed to assist people whose 
incomes had been temporarily affected by Covid-19. And, even though Mr P lost his job as a 
result of Covid-19, this was more than a temporary adjustment to his income  it wasnt 
possible for Mr P to know how long hed be off work for, or what his income would be when 
he finally returned to work. Because of this, Im satisfied that VWFS acted reasonably by not 
offering Mr P a payment deferral, instead offering him breathing space.
Im aware that Mr P thinks that breathing space was insufficient, because of how much hed 
already paid towards the agreement. But I dont agree, as these are separate things. The 
breathing space allowed Mr P to concentrate on looking for new employment, whereas the 
amount hed already paid VWFS would affect whether he could voluntarily terminate the 
agreement i.e. hand the vehicle back and walk away with nothing more to pay. While Mr P 
was made aware of this option, he wanted to keep the vehicle at that stage. So, Im satisfied 
that offering breathing space was reasonable in the circumstances.
While VWFS issued a Default Notice in November 2020, because of the arrears, they didnt 
default or terminate the agreement at this point. And, when Mr P asked them about 
refinancing the agreement / repaying the arrears in December 2020 (even though at that 
point he was still out of work), VWFS said that this would only be possible over 12-months. 
While Mr P doesnt think this was a long enough period; given that his agreement only had 
around six-months of its original term to run, this would mean extending the agreement by 
roughly the number of deferred payments. Which I think was reasonable. While Mr P 
wouldve liked a longer term, I wouldnt expect VWFS to necessarily offer this, especially 
given the age of the vehicle.
When Mr P returned to work, he tried to arrange to repay the arrears with VWFS. He also 
asked about part-exchanging the vehicle and is unhappy that VWFS didnt give him a list of 
garages that would do this for him. But I wouldnt expect them to, as I wouldnt expect VWFS 
(as a finance provider) to be aware of what multiple unrelated dealerships were doing and 
whether theyd accept the vehicle as part exchange. So, its reasonable they expected Mr P 
to make his own enquiries.
Ive seen that, in a letter dated 22 February 2021, Mr P had agreed to pay VWFS £10 a 
month in March, April, and May 2021, followed by a payment of £2,500.62 on 30 June 2021, 
which would clear off all the arrears. And this would just leave the final payment of £8,560 
owing. Mr P also had a direct debit set up, from which to make these payments.
Because of this, I cant agree that Mr P was unaware that VWFS were going to try and 
collect £2,500.62 from his account. But I agree that he wouldnt have expected them to try 
and take the payment when they did  on 15 July 2021, around two weeks later than they 
told him. And VWFS have acknowledged their error in doing this.
Mr P had asked about refinancing the arrears on 12 July 2021, which was before the 
agreement ended and the final payment fell due on 19 July 2021. VWFS provided him with a 
quote, but he didnt ask them to go ahead with this until 15 August 2021. At which point hed 
already been sent two arrears notices confirming he now owed £11,060.62 (the arrears plus 
the final payment).Given that the final payment was now due, I dont think that VWFS acted unreasonably by 
not agreeing to just refinance the arrears. Mr P owed more than just the £2,500.62 he was 
trying to refinance, and the full outstanding balance was due immediately. Whats more, with 
the two letters hed been sent in July 2021 confirming this amount, Im satisfied that Mr P 
was reasonably aware of what he owed.
VWFS gave Mr P until 20 October 2021 to repay what he owed. And, because theyd made 
him aware of what was owing in July (twice) and again on 9 September 2021, I cant say that 
VWFS stopped Mr P from selling the vehicle by not telling him how much he needed to 
repay. And, when Mr P hadnt repaid the agreement by 27 October 2021, I think VWFS 
acted reasonably by defaulting and terminating the agreement.
Its not disputed that Mr P asked VWFS for a copy of the agreement on 7 September 2021, 
and they didnt provide this to him until 6 October 2021. But I cant see how this wouldve 
stopped him from selling the vehicle, or otherwise repaying the agreement, and the other 
correspondence hed received from VWFS made it clear what he owed. Mr P has also said 
that VWFS failed to provide him with the service history for the vehicle, which also stopped 
him selling it. But I dont think this was VWFSs responsibility, while VWFS provided the 
financing, the supplying dealership provided the vehicle, so they would be who Mr P needed 
to contact if the service history was missing.
Ive seen the letters VWFS sent to Mr P on 27 October 2021, about the termination of the 
account. And one of these said his account will be transferred [to a debt collection agency] 
who will be contacting you, either for the return of the above vehicle, or for full settlement. 
And the debt collection agency contact details were provided.
Ive seen that Mr P contacted the debt collection agency on 27 October 2021, the same day 
that VWFS told him they will be transferring the account. He also contacted them two days 
later. And on both occasions, the debt collection agency told him that the account hadnt 
been transferred yet. Mr P also paid £1 to VWFS on 1 November 2021, and this payment 
wasnt returned to him. 
Because of this, Mr P feels that VWFS were lying to him about the transfer to the debt 
collection agency. But I dont agree. He was told on 27 October 2021 that his account was 
being transferred, not that it had been transferred. And, even if the management of the debt 
collection had been outsourced, this doesnt mean that VWFS didnt still own the debt. So, 
Id expect any payment Mr P paid to be credited to his account  which it was.
Mr P also made further payments to his account - £10,000 on 24 December 2021 and 
£1,009 on 29 December 2021. This left him with an outstanding balance of £0.62. And 
VWFS also added a £252 fee for transferring the account to the debt collection agency. 
Which they later agreed to waive
Mr P is unhappy that the debt collection agency tried to repossess the vehicle in February 
2022, which he says was around six weeks after hed cleared the account in full. But the 
account hadnt been cleared in full, he still owed either £0.62 or £252.62, depending on 
whether the waiver of the £252 fee had been processed at that point. 
I dont think this was a reasonable course of action as, once the fee was waived, Mr P owed 
less than £1. And the collection of this outstanding amount couldve been dealt with 
differently. However, to Mr Ps point that VWFS acted illegally and needed a court order to 
repossess the vehicle; as this is a legal issue its best dealt with by the courts, so is 
something I wont deal with in my decision.Mr P was also unhappy that VWFS had long call waiting times at lunchtimes, which was the 
only time he could call them; and that a statement they sent him in March 2022 said he still 
owed them £8,762, when this wasnt the case. With regards to the call waiting time, its 
unfortunate that Mr P was limited in when he could speak to them. But I cant say that VWFS 
have done anything wrong by having longer call waiting times at what would be peak times 
for incoming calls. And Ive seen that Mr P was able to use email to raise his queries.
Ive also seen that VWFS have explained why the statement didnt mean that Mr P owed 
£8,762 but issuing a statement that implied this was the case is confusing for customers. 
VWFS have already waived the £252 fee they charged Mr P, and theyve offered him an 
additional £253 compensation. Given the above, this is in line with what I wouldve directed, 
had nothing been recommended. As such, its now for Mr P to decide whether to accept this 
amount or not, and I wont be asking VWFS to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman