DRN-4262028
The complaint
Mr V and Mrs V have complained about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has dealt 
with a claim under a home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr V and Mrs V contacted Ageas to make a claim for an escape of water at their home. Mr V 
and Mrs V later complained to Ageas because they hadnt received a call back they had 
been promised and the amount of time it was taking to deal with the claim.
When Ageas replied, it apologised that a manager hadnt called back. It said the claim was 
being validated and this was continuing, so it couldnt confirm if there had been any delays. It 
said it would provide an update shortly.
So, Mr V and Mrs V complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He 
said Mr V and Mrs V had been clear from the start that there was damage to an external 
wall. Ageas hadnt provided evidence that it wasnt covered as part of the claim or that the 
claim was progressing. He said Ageas should pay the claim, including the damage to the 
external wall and pay interest on any cash settlement. He also said Ageas should pay £250 
compensation.
Following this, Ageas sent a report it had previously provided and said it had already made a 
full assessment of the wall. Our investigator replied to Ageas to explain why he didnt think 
this was evidence of the wall being fully assessed. As Ageas didnt reply, the complaint was 
referred to me
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ageas sent a company to Mr V and Mrs Vs home to assess the damage. The report 
described issues with the external wall and why it thought it might not be part of the claim. 
Following this, Mr V phoned Ageas due to lack of progress on the claim. Ageas looked into it 
and then decided it needed to appoint a loss adjuster to get the claim moving and because 
the company that had been out to complete the report hadnt done what Ageas had 
requested and that it wasnt clear what should be covered or declined. Ageas also later 
noted that it would have been helpful to have requested salt testing to identify the source of 
damage to the external wall and whether it was the result of an escape of water.
Im aware Ageas has said the claim has since progressed, but despite requesting Ageas 
provide evidence to show this, all it had provided this service with is the report referred to 
above. In my view, that report, and Ageas view of it, showed that the claim wasnt being 
progressed and that the survey didnt clearly show that the external wall shouldnt be part of 
the claim. Although I would generally say it is reasonable for an insurer to rely on its own 
experts evidence, I think Ageas records show that it didnt think it could rely on its own 
experts assessment. I havent seen evidence to show Ageas has taken steps to address 
this issue and to identify the cause of damage for the wall.
The other main evidence I have is the testimony of Mr V and Mrs V. They have explained the 
damage to the external wall and why they think it should be covered, including the 
relationship between the source of the leak and the pointing directly behind it. In the 
circumstances, Im more persuaded by Mr V and Mrs Vs explanation. 
As a result, I uphold this complaint and require Ageas to settle the claim and to include the 
damage to the external wall in its settlement. If it pays a cash settlement, it must also pay 
interest on that amount because Mr V and Mrs V lost use of the money.
Ive also thought about compensation. When Ageas responded to the complaint, it said it 
didnt have evidence of delays. However, I think Ageas records show there were delays and 
that it wasnt efficiently progressing the claim. As a result, I require Ageas to pay £250 
compensation to recognise the impact of this on Mr V and Mrs V.
Putting things right
Ageas should settle the claim and include the damage to the wall in the settlement. It should 
also pay interest on any cash settlement and pay £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Settle the claim and include the damage to the external wall in the claim settlement.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount, if it paid as a cash settlement, from the date on 
which the claim was submitted to the date on which the payment is made.
Pay £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman