DRN-3693377
The complaint
Ms C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt add 8% 
compensatory interest to her refund.
What happened
Ms C received a refund form Barclaycard due to interest and fees that were incorrectly 
applied to her account. Ms C says that the refund should be subject to 8% compensatory 
interest. 
Barclaycard said that Ms Cs debt had been sold and so it couldnt confirm if it had been 
repaid. It said that the application interest to the refund could be reviewed if Ms C sent 
evidence that the debt had been repaid.
Ms C confirmed that the debt was still outstanding.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that statutory interest was paid to 
compensate for a customer being deprived of their money. As Ms C was in debt the 
additional charges hadnt deprived her of the money and so he didnt think the compensatory 
interest needed to be applied.
Ms C said she couldnt afford to repay the debt and she wasnt being treated fairly by not 
having interest applied to her refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, compensatory or statutory interest can be applied at a 
rate of 8% in cases where a customer has been deprived of their money. In this case Ms C 
was in debt and the refund didnt result in her account going into credit. Had this happened, 
it would be reasonable to consider statutory interest being applied to any overpayment 
amount. 
So, while I appreciate that Ms C believes she should receive interest on her refund, as her 
account was, and still is, in debt the incorrectly applied interest and fees didnt result in her 
being deprived of her money. Therefore, I do not find that statutory interest is applicable in 
this case.
Ms C says that she is being treated unfairly as she is unable to clear her debt. However, 
Barclaycard has explained when interest is applied to refunds, and I do not find it has treated 
her unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman