DRN-2566553
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they
were given unsuitable investment advice by Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited
(L&G).
What happened
In September 1996 Mr and Mrs W were advised to invest £5,000 each into two Personal
Equity Plans (PEPs), in the Legal & General Worldwide Trust. Mrs W surrendered her PEP
in September 2001 and received back just under £6,000. Mr W surrendered his later, in
February 2003, and received back just over £4,700.
The CMC complained to L&G about the advice. It said that Mr and Mrs W had been advised
to invest after a significant change in circumstances  a serious accident involving Mrs W,
for which she received compensation and meant she was unable to work  and were
advised to invest too much money at too high a level of risk for first-time investors.
L&G didnt uphold the complaint. It noted that Mr and Mrs W had provided the adviser with
very limited information about their circumstances, but it felt she had nevertheless made a
generally suitable recommendation, ensuring Mr and Mrs W were left with sufficient money
in reserve and having explained the risks of the investment and considered alternatives.
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion
as L&G. He acknowledged that thered been limited information provided, so the adviser had
little on which to base an assessment of suitability. But he noted that Mr and Mrs W
appeared to have been clear that they required very specific advice on investing and had
signed and dated the fact find showing that they had provided limited information. The
investigator didnt feel there was enough to show that the advice was unsuitable or carried
too much risk.
The CMC didnt accept the investigators view. It said that if the adviser didnt have enough
information, she shouldnt have given advice and that, in any event, the Worldwide Trust was
likely to have been too risky for first-time investors.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me
to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in part:
As noted, Mr and Mrs W provided very little information about their personal and financial
circumstances to the adviser. They did tell her how much cash they had available  £28,000
 and that they wanted to leave £14,000 on deposit. (The advice actually left them with more
than this, as only £10,000 was invested). Mr and Mrs W also acknowledged that they had
some existing investments - although, again, little detail was provided, other than to say
theyd been held for only two months. The PEPs were maintained for five and seven year
respectively, which doesnt suggest that there were any affordability issues.
I accept that there is an argument that the adviser didnt have enough information to be sure
she was providing suitable advice. But I think, on balance, it was generally reasonable for
her to go ahead. Mr and Mrs W were in their 30s and were left with a reasonable amount on
deposit. Further, as the investigator noted, the documentation made clear to them that the
advice was being given on the basis of limited information, and they signed to accept this.
The adviser also noted that there were other areas  for example, pension provision  on
which she couldnt advise without more information.
The attitude to risk information was also very limited. However, this was due to L&Gs
categorisations. The fact find detailed only three possible levels of risk: low  which was
actually no-risk; medium  which was described as taking some risk; and high  which was
described as taking a higher risk.
So, because there were effectively only two levels of investment risk that could be chosen,
the description of Mr and Mrs W as medium doesnt tell us much. Using L&Gs system
anyone who wanted to expose their money to even minimal risk had to be categorised as
medium.
It was noted in the fact find that the investment funds that Mr and Mrs W were being
recommended were managed. L&G has said that this didnt mean that Mr and Mrs W were
being recommended investment in a managed fund. Rather this was the profile of fund being
recommended, and the Worldwide Trust was the only fund that was available for that profile.
This strikes me as a little odd, and very limiting. Details of how the fund was invested in 1996
arent available. But looking at how it invests today, roughly 40% in UK assets and the rest
globally, suggests that it was unlikely to have a level of risk suitable for Mr and Mrs W, with
only two months of investment experience.
So, in summary, while I think it was broadly acceptable for the adviser to make an
investment recommendation to Mr and Mrs W (despite the limited information made
available) Im not satisfied that investing in the Worldwide Trust was likely to have been
suitable, certainly not for investment of the whole £10,000 that Mr and Mrs W committed.
In respect of how Mr and Mrs W should be compensated for being given unsuitable advice
its quite difficult, given the limited information available, to determine what they might
otherwise have done. I think they were in a position to invest, but at a lower level of risk than
the Worldwide Trust.
Their willingness to proceed knowing that they werent providing much information to assist
the adviser suggests to me that they probably werent particularly cautious people, and in
turn therefore not particularly cautious investors. As such, I think a comparison of the
performance of their PEPs with our benchmark for when a consumer was likely to want to
take more than a cautious risk  the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index  
is a reasonable way to determine compensation.
Mr and Mrs Ws CMC accepted my provisional decision. 
L&G provided some further comments. It said that in 1996 the range of funds available to the 
adviser would have been very limited compared with today. As such, the Worldwide Trust 
was the only managed fund that wouldve matched the profile given to Mr and Mrs W. 
L&G felt it was inappropriate for me to make a comparison with way in which the fund was 
currently constituted. It provided a 2001 fund factsheet that it considered would be a more 
reasonable comparator. This showed that at that time the fund included around 60% UK 
assets, so carrying a lower level of risk than today. This, in turn, then brought into question 
my proposed compensation, as the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index, which Id suggested should be used as a comparison, featured around 56% global assets, 
so a notably higher level than it was likely the Worldwide Trust had featured in 1996. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I noted in my provisional decision, the lack of information about Mr and Mrs W 
circumstances provided at the time  which Im satisfied they were pro-active in limiting, 
rather than there being any oversight on the part of the adviser  makes it very difficult to 
determine what wouldve been a suitable way for them to invest.  
But, having revisited the little that is known about them and their circumstances, I remain of 
the view that, given they had effectively no investment experience, a £10,000 investment 
between them into the Worldwide Trust more likely than not carried too much risk. I say this 
having noted L&Gs comment about the likely make-up of the fund in 1996.
In respect of compensation, I note what L&G has said about the Private Investors index. I 
suggested this above cautious benchmark be used in my provisional decision because I 
didnt feel able to conclude that Mr and Mrs W were likely to have been straightforward 
cautious investors because of their willingness to accept advice knowing that very little was 
known of their circumstances.
On reflection the Private Investors index would be the wrong benchmark to use in any event, 
as it didnt start until 2017. Prior to that it would be the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income 
Total Return Index, but again that index didnt start until 1997. As Mr and MRs Ws 
investment started the year before, in 1996, the usual benchmark wed use for that date 
would be Bank of England base rate plus 1%.
So, taking note of L&Gs comments, I think it is appropriate to determine if any compensation 
is due to Mr and Mrs W by using the benchmarks of BoE base rate + 1% to 1997, then the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total Return Index to date of surrender. This change has 
been confirmed with L&G.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs W as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mr and Mrs W would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs W's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested. 
What should L&G do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs W fairly, L&G must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs W's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.

L&G should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
PEPs 
surrenderedBoE base 
rate + 1% to 
1997, then 
the FTSE 
WMA Stock 
Market 
Income Total 
Return Index 
to date of 
surrenderdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr and Mrs W's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Legal & 
General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs W as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
James HarrisOmbudsman