DRN-1864705
 
The complaint
Mr T says Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) shouldnt have provided him with a 
loan because at the time hed recently lost his job and had already taken out 44 short term 
loans in the previous year. 
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld. A copy of 
the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow this and form part of this 
final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision;
Mr T took one loan from Dot Dot Loans in August 2018. The loan was for £400 with 
repayments due to be made over six months with a largest monthly repayment of £123.56.
In our adjudicators assessment she didnt think that Dot Dot Loans had treated Mr T unfairly 
when it approved this loan. This was because it carried out proportionate checks and the 
information it gathered suggested that Mr T would be in a position to meet the repayments 
he was committed to making. So she didnt think it was wrong of Dot Dot Loans to have 
provided this loan.  
Mr T didnt accept the adjudicators findings. In response he said the sheer number of loans 
hed taken in that year shouldve led Dot Dot Loans to decline the application. . 
Dot Dot Loans appears to have accepted the adjudicators findings. As no agreement could 
be reached the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive provisionally decision and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having reviewed all the information Im coming to a different outcome to that of the 
adjudicators and Ive explained my reasons for doing so below. 
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to understand whether 
Mr T could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr T was required to establish 
whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Dot Dot Loans says it agreed to Mr Ts applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income (£1,273) and his expenditure (£300). Dot Dot Loans carried out some further checks 
and increased Mr Ts expenditure to £751. It also carried out some additional further 
adjustments which left Dot Dot Loans believing that Mr T had £219 disposable income each 
month. 
So, based on what Mr T declared, the information suggested that he would be able to make 
the repayments he was committing to make over the lifetime of the agreement. So, in these 
circumstances it wasnt irresponsible to provide these loans. 
However, just because I think the checks that Dot Dot Loans carried out went far enough 
that doesnt mean it didnt make an error by lending to Mr T. I say this because Dot Dot 
Loans had to react to the information that it was provided and in this case I dont think it did. 
Based on the information Dot Dot Loans obtained from the credit reference agencies, I dont 
think it shouldve lent this loan to Mr T. I say this because the information indicated that Mr T 
was having problems managing his money. 
The information shows that Mr T had five active loans, which appear to be instalment loans 
(looking at the values outstanding and his contractual monthly repayments) and he had at 
least one home credit account. In addition to this, Dot Dot Loans was aware that there had 
been 16 searches of his credit file within the last three months. 
Ive thought about what Dot Dot Loans says in the final response letter about it being a sub 
prime lender, and I accept this, and that it will accept applications for credit with less than perfect credit results. But in this case, the credit results showed Dot Dot Loans that Mr T was 
having wider financial problems  - not just that his credit history was less than perfect  and 
so it shouldnt have provided the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T doesnt appear to have responded to the provisional decision. So Ive assumed he has 
nothing further to add.
Dot Dot Loans didnt agree with the provisional decision. In response it made a number of 
points including:
Mr T was only provided with one loan
Although Mr T had 16 searches on his credit file, this didnt appear to translate into 
new credit being provided
Dot Dot Loans was aware of an overdraft, but Mr T hadnt exceeded his limit. 
He only had 8 active accounts at the time the facility was approved 
Mr T was making repayments to his other credit facilities in line with his contractual 
repayments and
There had been only 1 missed payment in the previous 36 months on any credit 
account.
 
Ive thought carefully about what Dot Dot Loans says, as well as reviewing the credit file 
results that it has previously provided. Having done so, I still think this complaint should be 
upheld in full and Ive explained why below. 
While I accept that Mr T was only provided with one loan  that fact alone doesnt 
automatically mean Dot Dot Loans didnt do anything wrong when the loan was provided. 
Initially looking at the credit check, I agree with Dot Dot Loans that Mr T had 8 active 
accounts. However, Mr T had opened 12 accounts within the previous 6 months  so Mr T 
was on average, opening 2 new accounts a month. To me, this is quite a significant number 
of accounts to have opened in that space of time. And the SHARE recorded provided Dot 
Dot Loans shows that his worse repayment record was a 1 within the last six months. 
In addition, as I explained in my provisional decision, Dot Dot Loans was aware that that
Mr T had a number of outstanding loans with what I believe to be instalment loan providers 
(given the amount being borrowed and his contractual monthly repayments) and home credit 
providers. In addition to this, the credit check results that Dot Dot loans were using showed 
that Mr T had been a regular user of these loans since the start of 2018. 
In my view, the number of outstanding loans that Dot Dot Loans was aware of was a clear 
indication that Mr T was having problems managing his money  and it was likely that this 
loan wasnt sustainable.  
Mr T may well have been making his loan repayments in line with the contractual 
repayments he was committed to making. However, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, the checks carried out didnt just have to show that the loans were pound and 
pence affordable, but also that the loan was sustainable for Mr T.  The information Dot Dot Loans gathered from the credit checks it carried out, in my view 
showed that Mr P was having problems managing his money because there appeared to be 
sustained, regular use of home credit and instalment loans. In these circumstances, I think 
Dot Dot Loans ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr T wouldve been able to sustainably 
repay this loan. 
So I still think Dot Dot Loans was wrong to have given Mr T his loan, and it should put things 
right for Mr T as set out below. 
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr T paid on his loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Ts credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Dot Dot Loans to take off tax from this interest. Dot Dot 
Loans must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Shelby Finance Ltd should put things right for Mr T as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Robert Walker
Ombudsman