DRN-3040822
The complaint
Miss A complains about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (LBGI) has handled 
a claim shes made on her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive only included a 
summary here:
Miss A has a buildings and contents insurance policy with LBGI.
She noticed one of her radiators was leaking and made a claim on a Home 
Emergency policy she has with another provider, which Ill refer to as X.
X made a number of attempts to resolve the issue but they werent successful and 
the leak continued.
Miss R didnt realise this for some time, until she noticed her carpet was saturated 
with water.
She contacted LBGI to make a claim on her policy to cover the cost of the damage 
caused by the leak.
LBGI attended the property to assess its liability but said it wasnt able to due to a 
large number of pets in cages covering the damaged area.
Miss A complained to LBGI about the service provided by its claims handler, the 
delays in assessing the claim, its refusal to provide alternative accommodation and 
various other issues.
LBGI agreed to appoint a new claims handler and awarded £25 for failing to keep 
Miss A updated but it maintained its position on the other parts of the complaint.
Our investigator said LBGI hadnt caused delays assessing the claim or in making 
payment for alternative boarding for Miss As pets.
He also said LBGI wasnt responsible for paying alternative accommodation as Miss 
A was already living elsewhere following a separate, unrelated claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has raised a number of other things that have happened since she first made her 
initial complaint and these are being dealt with under a separate complaint reference. 
Additionally, LBGI has recently raised various issues about the information Miss R provided 
when she first took out the policy and, more recently, in support of her claim.
My investigation and findings will focus on LBGIs actions up to the point it issued its 
summary resolution on 21 April 2021 and I wont be considering what happened subsequent 
to that under this complaint. I also wont be considering the actions of X as the provider of 
the Accidental Damage cover under this complaint.
Delays
LBGI has supplied a photo of the area of damage, taken when it visited Miss As property to 
assess its liability. Ive considered this carefully and its clear there are numerous animal 
cages covering the area where the damage has occurred, and I understand why this would 
have made it difficult for LBGI to asses the extent of the damage.
It asked Miss A to arrange for the cages to be removed and it would then be able to assess 
the damage more fully. I consider this to be a reasonable approach for LBGI to adopt in the 
circumstances. The animals hadnt been removed at the time it issued its summary 
resolution.
LBGI confirmed it would consider costs associated with the animals being removed and 
boarded elsewhere once Miss A supplied details. At the time it issued its summary 
resolution, Miss A hadnt done this. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied LBGI wasnt responsible for delays up to 
that point.
Alternative Accommodation
Miss A said she should be provided with alternative accommodation as she considered her 
property was uninhabitable because she wasnt able to use the lounge. LBGI said as the 
damage only affected one room, it didnt consider the property to be uninhabitable. It went 
on to say the property was just generally inaccessible due to the extent of the contents and 
animal cages present.
Ive not seen enough to persuade me the property was uninhabitable as a result of this 
claim. And while the damage in question may have made the property less desirable to live 
in, this doesnt make it uninhabitable. Ive also kept in mind Miss A seems to have already 
been living in another property at the time as a result of a separate, unrelated claim.
Im satisfied LBGI has acted fairly and in line with the policy in declining alternative 
accommodation at the point it issued its summary response.
Other issues
LBGI agreed to change the male claims handler to a female one after Miss A requested this, 
for personal reasons. It also awarded her £25 for failing to keep her up to date with things. 
Im satisfied these were reasonable approaches in the circumstances 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman