DRN-2105773
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the response hes received from M & G Securities Limited (the 
business) about several concerns he raised.
He says the business failed to satisfactorily answer the following questions:
Would the M&G Managed Growth Fund be able to temporarily suspend dealing?
Why were all the business customers not informed of the M&G Property Portfolio 
Funds suspension?
Why was there no press conference from the business regarding the removal of the 
M&G Recovery Fund from Hargreaves Lansdown Wealth 50 list?
What role did the business, or any other Authorised Corporate Director (ACD), play in 
respect of the funds he is invested in; 
What role does Link Fund Solutions Limited or associated business play, directly or 
indirectly, in matters pertaining to his investment?
What happened
The business hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary it said:
The M&G Managed Growth Fund would only be suspended in exceptional 
circumstances, if it was considered to be in the best interest of the funds 
shareholders. 
The fund Mr H is invested in isnt invested in the M&G Property Portfolio Fund. 
It sent letters to customers directly impacted by the (above) fund suspension and 
information is available on its websites for all customers to view.  
Hargreaves Lansdown made the decision to remove the M&G Recovery Fund from 
its Wealth 50 list. Theres no requirement for the business to comment on this 
decision taken by a third-party business.  
Mr H is invested in the M&G Managed Growth Fund which is a sub fund of M&G 
Investment Funds (4), an Open-Ended Investment Company (OEIC). M&G Securities 
Limited (MGSL) is the Authorised Corporate Director of the OEIC.
In this role MGSL is responsible for all aspects of the day to day management of this 
sub fund. At the broadest level MGSL has a duty to manage the sub-fund in 
accordance with the instrument constituting the fund, the relevant rules (primarily the 
Open-Ended Investment Companies Regulations 2001 and the applicable rules 
contained within the FCA Handbook) and the prospectus.
The ACDs day to day management includes providing management services and 
providing administration, accounting, consultancy, advisory and secretarial services 
as are necessary to manage the fund.
With regards to Link Fund Solutions Limited, it can confirm that neither they nor any 
associated business play a direct or indirect role in Mr Hs M&G Managed Growth 
Fund investment. 
Overall it feels that its acted appropriately in addressing Mr Hs issues. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The business had overall addressed Mr Hs concerns adequately, and in a 
reasonable amount of time.  
It provided Mr H with an updated Key Investor Information Document (KIID) which 
included details of investments his fund was invested in. 
She recommended that the business confirm that Mr H wasnt invested in any 
property for peace of mind. 
The selection of an ACD is a commercial decision for the business, its not an issue 
that our service would get involved in. The business is also not obliged to provide any 
evidence relating to its decision which is likely to be commercially sensitive. 
The business wasnt involved in the setting up of the Wealth 50 list and therefore 
isnt obliged to comment upon Hargreaves Lansdowns decision to remove M&G 
Recovery Fund. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, I dont think the business has behaved 
unreasonably in responding to Mr Hs questions. 
Overall, Im satisfied that its provided adequate answers to his questions and has done so in 
a reasonable amount of time. I dont think its necessary for me to go through the questions 
and answers which I think are self-explanatory. 
I note that the business confirmed that Mr H wasnt invested in the Property Portfolio Fund.  
It also confirmed that it only notified its customers effected by the funds temporary 
suspension, and that there was information available for all its customers online regarding 
the temporary suspension and updates. In the circumstances Im unable to say that the 
business has done anything wrong.
I note that Mr H was unhappy that the business didnt confirm if there was an element of
property as an underlying asset in the fund he is invested in  in other words whether Mr H 
was invested in property at all. But I dont think this means that the complaint should be 
upheld. I note the business confirmed he wasnt invested in the property fund and provided a 
copy of the KIID which included details of investments his fund was invested in. I note the 
investigator has asked the business to confirm that hes not invested in any property for 
peace of mind and the business has agreed to do so. But I dont think it did anything wrong 
in not providing this assurance previously.
In the circumstances, I also dont think that the business has done anything wrong by not 
writing to all its customers about the temporary suspension issue that affected only those 
invested in the specific fund. In my opinion its decision not to do so is a commercial one, and not something our service would get involved in.  In any case it didnt affect Mr H because he 
wasnt invested in the Property Portfolio Fund. 
I note that Mr H asked if it was in the best overall and long-term interest of investors for 
MGSL to act as the current sole and exclusive ACD for the M&G Managed Growth Fund, 
and if the business believed so, to provide him with evidence that supports this decision.
But like the investigator I also think that the issue relating to the ACD is probably 
commercially sensitive, so the details are not something that the business is obliged to share 
with its customers.
It looks like Hargreaves Lansdown decided to remove the M&G Recovery Fund from its 
Wealth 50 list. If thats the case, I think Hargreaves Lansdown is probably best placed to 
answer any questions relating to its decision.
I agree with the investigator that theres no requirement for the business to comment upon a 
third-party business decision, and I cant blame it for not doing so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman