DRN-3637510
The complaint
Mrs M complains Ageas Insurance Limited failed to renew her home insurance policy, and 
about the service she received when the issue came to light.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a joint home insurance policy with Ageas. Mr M was the direct debit 
holder. 
In December 2019, Mrs M informed Ageas that Mr M had passed away, and the direct debit 
details were updated. The monthly premiums were successfully taken via the new direct 
debit details until 31 October 2020, when that 12-month policy period came to an end. 
Ageas says, due to an error when the direct debit details were updated, the renewal wasnt 
generated, and no cover was in place from November 2020 onwards. Ageas says the error 
was identified in March 2021, and a voicemail was left on Mrs Ms contact number, but the 
call wasnt returned.
In December 2021, Mrs M contacted Ageas about a radiator leak, with a view to making a 
claim. Whilst no cover was in place, Ageas offered to backdate the cover for 50% of the 
premiums and consider the claim. It also offered £25 compensation. Mrs M remained 
unhappy, so she referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators has considered the complaint. He thought Ageas offer to backdate 
the policy for 50% of the premiums and consider the claim was fair. However, he thought 
the compensation should be increased to £100.
Ageas accepted our investigators recommendations. But Mrs M thought £250 compensation 
should be paid. She noted she had spent an hour discussing the matter with Ageas, and she 
was unhappy it rejected her request for a few days free cover whilst she decided what to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas accepts it made an error by not offering renewal. So, what I need to decide here, is 
whether Ageas did enough to put matters right.
I consider Ageas offer to backdate the cover for 50% of the missed premiums, to be fair and 
reasonable. This would have provided Mrs M with continuous cover, so her claim could be 
considered. Had Ageas not made the error, Mrs M would have always had to pay for the 
cover.
As I understand it, Mrs M chose not to accept Ageas offer, as having read the policy terms, 
she didnt think her radiator leak would be covered. As such, I can understand her decision 
not to pay for backdated cover, and to instead take out cover with another insurer. But 
nonetheless, I consider Ageas to have treated Mrs M fairly with its offer.
Turning to the compensation, I agree with our investigator, £25 doesnt fairly reflect the upset 
likely caused to Mrs M when she learnt she had no cover, or the inconvenience of having to 
sort the matter out. 
However, I havent seen anything that would lead me to increase the compensation beyond 
£100. Even if I were to accept Ageas could have given Mrs M a few days cover whilst she 
took some time to think about matters, Im satisfied £100 compensation fairly reflects the 
upset and inconvenience shes described.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Ageas Insurance Limited should:
- pay Mrs M £100 compensation, in total (if £25 has already been paid, a further £75 
would be due).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman