DRN-4309846
The complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money she lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Miss M says:
Miss M saw an advert on Facebook for a scheme investing in cryptocurrency. She 
completed the online form and got a call back. The caller claimed to be calling from a bank in 
Cyprus. He gave instructions as to how to invest in cryptocurrency and told her to send 
money for the investment using a payment firm (which I will call A) and then to a trading 
platform (which I will call B). The caller coached Miss M how to open her accounts with A 
and B on Skype calls. 
Miss M then made payments from her Lloyds account as shown:
Date Transaction Amount
1. 13 September 2022 Online payment to A  
blocked by Lloyds but 
then released£990
2. 13 September 2022 Online payment to A £2,010
3. 22 September 2022 Online payment to A £19,000
4. 21 October 2022 Online payment to A  
blocked by Lloyds(£10,000)
5. 21 October 2022 Online payment to A £100
6. 25 October 2022 Online payment to A £500
7. 25 October 2022 Online payment to A £500
Total Loss £23,100
Miss M borrowed money to finance the payments she made:
Date Finance Amount
12 September 2022 Credit card £2,500
21 September 2022 Loan £20,000 (repaid 26 October 2022)
21 October 2022 Loan £10,000 (repaid 25 October 2022 
when payment was stopped)
26 October 2022 Refinance loan £29,000.70
The investments turned out to be a scam and Miss M lost the money. She was left with a 
large refinance loan of £29,000. Miss M says Lloyds shouldve done more to protect her. 
She said they shouldve intervened in the second and third payments but didnt. If they had, 
the scam wouldve been uncovered and she wouldnt have made the payments. She said 
Lloyds should refund the money shed lost.
Miss M is now struggling as she has lost all her money. She has suffered depression, loss of 
sleep and is on medication.
What Lloyds said:
Miss M complained to Lloyds. They said:
- Miss M couldve protected herself better.
- She didnt carry out any checks on the company she was speaking to.
- The scammers didnt ask her for identification  which showed it must have been a 
scam.
- She didnt get any paperwork from the bank in Cyprus.
- There were many negative reviews online about the bank in Cyprus.
- There were warnings about using bank B on the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
website.
- When Lloyds called her about the first payment, she hadnt been truthful as she said 
no one had advised her about making the payments.
- On the first call about the first payment, Lloyds had clearly advised Miss M that it 
could be a scam, and she could lose the money.
- Lloyds also told her she shouldnt be borrowing money to make investments.
- The payments werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
Code)  as they were me to me i.e. from Miss Ms account with Lloyds to her 
account with bank A.
Lloyds declined to refund the money to Miss M.
Our investigation so far:
Miss M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said:
- On the call about the first payment (13 September 2022), Lloyds asked clear, probing 
questions, and gave appropriate warnings about its risks before releasing it. Miss M confirmed she wanted the payment to be made.
- The payment of £19,000 (22 September 2022) wasnt intercepted by Lloyds. But if it 
had been, she was satisfied that the warnings given on the first call would still have 
applied. And it was unlikely that Miss M wouldve given any more information than 
she gave on the first call. So  she didnt think Lloyds couldve established there was 
a scam in operation, and it was more likely than not the payment wouldve been sent.  
It was also evident Miss M was keen to invest  as she had taken a loan of £20,000 
to finance it.
- Payment of £10,000 (21 October 2022): this was blocked by Lloyds, and Miss Ms 
account was suspended as a result. Miss M didnt proceed with the payment after 
she later spoke to Lloyds on 25 October 2022.
- Two payments of £500  these were of low value and didnt warrant intervention by 
Lloyds.
- Lloyds didnt try to recover the funds as the payments had been made to Miss Ms 
account with bank A and had been moved onto the investment by her. So - there 
wasnt anything to recover.
Miss M didnt agree. She asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint, and so it has 
come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss M has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Miss M didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to faster payments made to another UK 
beneficiary  and in this case, the payments were made by Miss M to her account with bank 
A. i.e. it was a me to me payment.
But thats not the end of the story - I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Miss M when she made the payments, or whether they should 
have done more than they did. I have considered the position carefully.
I looked at Mis Ms account behaviour  to see if such payments were normal for her to 
make. And  they were unusual. Her account was used for day-to-day expenses and the 
receipt of her salary. I couldnt see any payments similar to the larger amounts she later sent 
to bank A. So  in broad terms, I wouldve expected Lloyds to intervene and ask questions of 
Miss M  as the guidance to banks sets out.
And here, Lloyds did intervene in the first payment  and this is important in the context of 
Miss Ms complaint. Therefore, I quote the important parts of the call.
13 September 2022 - £990:  
Lloyds called Miss M about the payment. It had been held by Lloyds for investigation. I 
listened to the call. It was very clear indeed. 
Miss M said she wanted to make the payment to her account with bank A. Lloyds call 
handler said: your payment has a higher than normal risk of being fraudulent. Remember 
that once this payment has left your account, the money is gone and we're unlikely to 
recover it. Fraudsters are contacting our customers with convincing stories. They can be 
very believable. Fraudsters often tell customers not to discuss the call with their bank 
however this makes it more difficult for us to protect you from the fraud on your account. 
The UKs Financial Conduct Authority has stated that investing in crypto assets which 
includes bitcoin generally involves taking very high risks and if consumers invest in these 
types of products they should be prepared to lose all their money. They have already ruined 
the lives of many of our customers. I want to help you today to make sure they don't do this 
to you. 
I consider this was a very clear warning indeed about the risks Miss M was facing in making 
the payment.
The call handler asked if the account had been set up by herself or had someone done it for 
her. Miss M said No, no. I've done that myself. I considered this  and Miss M told us (and 
later told Lloyds in her complaint call in January 2023) that she was coached to open the 
account with bank A  on a Skype call with the bank in Cyprus. So  she wasnt telling the 
truth here. If she had said as such to Lloyds, they may have been able to uncover the scam, 
but in view of what Miss M said  they couldnt be expected to have done so.
Lloyds call handler asked, Has anyone asked you not to discuss this payment with the 
bank? Miss M replied No.  But on the call in January 2023, Miss M told Lloyds she had 
been coached to say that if the bank asked such questions  so again, I cant reasonably 
expect Lloyds to have uncovered the scam in those circumstances.
I also noted that Miss M was keen to invest  as she had drawn £2,500 from her credit card 
the day before.So  in summary, Lloyds did all they could on the call, and it was reasonable for them to 
make the payment.
13 September 2022 - £2,010 and 22 September 2022 - £19,000
These are the crux of Miss Ms complaint  as Lloyds didnt intervene in these or contact 
Miss M about them. Lloyds told us their systems didnt flag the payments as they were to the 
same payee as the first one. Ive considered whether Lloyds actions here were reasonable 
or not.
On the payment of £2,010  I note this was on the same day as the payment for £990, and 
to the same beneficiary. And it was for a relatively low amount . So  I wouldnt have 
expected Lloyds to block it. I say this as theres a balance to be struck: Lloyds has 
obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but 
they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to 
legitimate payments. In this case, I think Lloyds acted reasonably in processing the payment.
On the payment of £19,000  because of the large amount, I wouldve thought it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to have stopped it and asked questions of Miss M, but they didnt, So I 
need to consider what would likely have happened if they had. And here, I agree with our 
investigator. 
- Miss M had been given very strong and clear warnings indeed about the payments to 
bank A a few days earlier, on the first call. And the warnings were directly relevant to 
this payment.
- The payment was to the same beneficiary (Miss Ms account with bank A) and for the 
same purpose.
- Miss M had borrowed money to make the payment  as the loan of £20,000 had 
been drawn the day before and paid into her account. So she was clearly intending to 
make the payment to the investment.
- So  Im persuaded that even if Lloyds had contacted Miss M, she wouldve 
answered their questions in the same way as she had on the first call, and the 
payment wouldve been released.
Therefore, I dont think Lloyds can reasonably be held responsible for the loss of £19,000.
21 October 2022 - £10,000:
Lloyds blocked this payment and Miss M subsequently cancelled it  so it has no bearing on 
Miss Ms complaint.
21 October 2022/25 October 2022  payment of £100 and two payments of £500: given the 
low amounts of these payments, I dont consider Lloyds shouldve intervened in these. Its 
not clear why Miss M went ahead with these payments - as she said on the call with Lloyds 
in January 2023  that she suspected the scheme was a scam earlier  at the time when she 
cancelled the payment for £10,000. But in any case, I dont think Lloyds can be liable for 
these payments.
In summary, I dont think I can reasonably hold Lloyds liable for any of the payments made 
by Miss M  for the reasons Ive given.Recovery
We expect firms to attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether Lloyds took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. But here, the funds were sent to 
Miss Ms account with bank A, and she then moved them herself to the scammer. So - there 
wasnt anything Lloyds could do to recover any money for her.
Miss M has lost a lot of money. Im sure this must have been upsetting for her. She will 
therefore be disappointed by my decision, but Im not asking Lloyds to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman