DRN-3076649
The complaint
Mr J complains that a van he acquired with the assistance of finance from MotoNovo 
Finance Limited isnt of satisfactory quality.  
What happened
Mr J bought a used van in August 2020. The van cost £16,194 and had travelled around 
28,000 miles at the point of sale.
In October 2020 Mr J said that the car was experiencing excessive oil consumption. The van 
underwent repairs covered under warranty. However, the problem remained, and the van 
continued to use excessive oil. Mr J explained that the car was in the garage on 7 occasions. 
The warranty company confirmed that it would not pay for any further investigations or 
repairs to the van.
The van was inspected in January 2020 and it was confirmed that the van was using 
excessive oil. The engineer indicated it was not possible to determine the cause of the 
problem and the engine would need to be stripped down.
Our investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. They thought that a van of this 
age and mileage should not have developed a fault with the oil consumption within 2 months 
of purchase. They thought that the van was not of satisfactory quality and attempts to repair 
the fault had been unsuccessful. They thought that Mr J should be able to reject the van.
MotoNovo didnt agree and responded to say in summary that the engineers report 
concluded that the fault was not present at the point of supply because Mr J had covered 
7,000 miles. Further it said that it should not be held responsible for repairs carried out by a 
third party. The investigator responded to these points and in their second view confirmed 
that their opinion was unchanged. MotoNovo didnt respond and so the complaint has been 
passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties and so I wont repeat them in detail in this decision. 
Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my conclusions.
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court would approach matters, but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The Consumer Rights Act 
provides 30 days to reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business 
is allowed one opportunity to repair the car.
 
I note that the fault first presented after 2 months. The supplying dealership referred Mr J to 
a main dealer for warranty repairs who stated that the warranty was not valid as the van 
hadnt been properly serviced and the wrong oil had been used by the supplying dealership.
Mr J was referred to another main dealership and he complained to MotoNovo in December 
2020 after he had travelled around 7,000 miles. The responsibility is on MotoNovo as the 
supplier of the car to show that the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr J bought it.
I would not expect a van to develop a fault of this nature which required significant oil after 
such a short time. I consider that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
Mr J returned the car on a number of occasions for repairs to be carried out only to have the 
fault recur. I consider that there was more than one attempt to repair the car that was 
unsuccessful, and it is not reasonable for any further attempts at repair and so Mr J is 
entitled to reject the car. 
I do not agree with MotoNovo or the engineer that because the car has been driven for 8,000 
miles the problem could not have been present or developing at the point of sale. Mr J 
reported the issue in October and has been topping up the oil ever since which has enabled 
him to travel those miles. 
Looking at the information provided by Mr J, the car has not been properly serviced, and has 
had incorrect oil so that one main dealership has refused warranty services. A further main 
dealership has refused further repairs on the basis that the van isnt of satisfactory quality. I 
dont agree that it is unfair to hold MotoNovo responsible for these repairs. They were done 
by a main dealership and MotoNovo had the option to arrange their own repairs as it was 
made aware of the problem in December 2020.
For these reasons I consider that Mr J is entitled to reject the car and unwind the agreement.
Mr J has been paying for a van that he has been unable to use no access to and this has 
caused considerable upset and inconvenience. 
Putting things right
1.End the agreement with nothing further for Mr J to pay
2. Arrange for collection of the vehicle at no cost to Mr J
3. Refund the deposit of £2,699 and pay 8% simple interest* from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement
4. Refund all repayments made from 1 July 2021 and pay 8% simple interest* from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo to take off tax from this interest. MotoNovo 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and MotoNovo Finance Limited should put 
things right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman