DRN-4170118
The complaint
Mr A complains Covea Insurance plc avoided his motor insurance policy (treated it like it 
never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr A took out a motor insurance policy with Covea in July 2022 through a price comparison 
website. When his car was stolen in August 2022, he tried to make a claim.
After investigating the claim, Covea said Mr A had incorrectly answered two questions it had 
asked about previous claims he and his additional driver had made. Covea considered this 
to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation which entitled it to avoid his policy and decline 
his claim because of this. It said itd arranged to return the premium hed already paid.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service - he doesnt think this is fair and says the insurer 
should pay him the value for his car. The Investigator looked into matters but they didnt 
think it should be upheld. This is because they agreed there had been a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation. And so Covea was entitled to take the steps it had. Mr A doesnt agree 
with this and so the matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr A I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, 
I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If the consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Covea says Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered the question about his and the additional drivers previous claims. So, Ive 
considered what Mr A was asked when the policy was taken out. Under the Claims & 
Convictions section, he answered No to the below questions.
Have you had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the last five years? 
This is regardless of who/what was at fault or if a claim was made or not. If you dont 
tell your insurer about previous accidents, claims or losses, your car insurance may 
not pay out if you make a claim. 
Additional driver 
Have they had any motor accidents, claims or losses in the last five years? 
This is regardless of who/what was at fault or if a claim was made or not. If you dont 
tell your insurer about any of their previous accidents, claims or losses, your car 
insurance may not pay out if you make a claim.
These are plain and direct questions with explanatory information making clear how 
important it is to answer them correctly which was repeated on the Statement of Insurance. 
Having reviewed information from Covea, I consider it clear the answer to both questions 
was not No. This is because Mr A had one fault claim from 2020 and the additional driver 
had four claims  three fault claims and a notification only claim - from between 2018-2020. 
Covea sent evidence of its underwriting criteria which showed it wouldnt have offered cover 
if itd been given the correct information by Mr A about the relevant previous claims. Covea 
also sent evidence to show it wouldnt have offered cover to Mr A even if the additional driver 
had been removed. So, Im satisfied Mr As representation was a qualifying one.
If the misrepresentation isnt deliberate or reckless, CIDRA says its careless. Covea have 
said it accepts Mr As representation was careless and I see no reason to interfere with this. 
As I find Mr As representation should be treated as a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
Ive looked at the actions Covea can take in accordance with CIDRA. And Im satisfied 
Covea was entitled to avoid Mr As policy in accordance with CIDRA from the inception of 
the policy. As this means - in effect - his policy never existed, Covea doesnt have to deal 
with Mr As claim following the theft of his vehicle. It does need to refund the premium to Mr 
A for the policy and Ive seen evidence it has already asked for the broker to do this.
Taking everything into account, this is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman