DRN-3938812
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has removed the counter 
service from one of its branches.
Mr and Mrs D say that in doing so, this amounts to discrimination, as Mrs D has a disability 
which means she is unable to use the paying in machines that are in the branch.
Mr D has also complained that the withdrawal of the counter service is inconvenient for him, 
as he now needs to drive to HSBC branches further away, when he wants to pay foreign 
currency into his Currency Account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that HSBC had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably, and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with this, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I note that Mr and Mrs D have also asked us to look into HSBC not responding to a Subject 
Access Request. However, as this request was made after HSBC had issued its final 
response letter, and it did not form part of the original complaint that they raised with HSBC, 
if they remain unhappy about this, they will need to raise their dissatisfaction with HSBC as a 
new complaint, in the first instance. 
Because of this, I will therefore not be addressing that specific issue within this decision. 
Although I would like to reassure Mr and Mrs D that HSBC did provide our service with a 
recording of the telephone call in which Mr D made his complaint to HSBC. And I did listen to 
it when reviewing this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything that Mr and Mrs D and HSBC have provided, Im unable to say 
that HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr and Mrs D. I have explained why I 
think this below.
As the adjudicator explained, our service is unable to make findings on whether or not 
something constitutes discrimination under the Equality Act 2010. This is because this 
service is an informal alternative to the courts. However, if Mr and Mrs D want a finding as to 
whether or not HSBCs decision to remove the counter service in their local branch is a 
breach the Equality Act, they will need to pursue it through the courts. This is because only a 
judge can give a formal decision on whether or not a piece of legislation has been breached. 
It is outside of this services jurisdictional remit and not something I can do within this 
decision.  
All I can consider is whether or not the business has acted in a fair and reasonable manner 
in this matter. Although, to do that, I will take a number of things - including the Equality Act 
2010 - into consideration. I can also only consider the elements of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint 
that relate directly to them. 
HSBC has explained that the reasons why it has removed a counter service from some of its 
branches is because there is either another HSBC branch nearby that still provides a 
counter service; or alternatively, where the counter service at the particular branch is not 
being used much by customers. Although HSBC didnt state which of these was the reason 
for the removal of the counter service in the branch in question, deciding what services it 
offers and in what locations is a legitimate exercise of its commercial discretion. As such, Im 
unable to say that HSBC is being unfair or unreasonable because it has decided to change 
the services offered in specific locations. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs D previously used the counter services, particularly for paying 
money in at their local HSBC branch. But when HSBC refurbished the branch in question, it 
removed the counter service. Mr and Mrs D have explained that this has adversely impacted 
Mrs D. They say this because Mrs D has a disability which means she is unable to use the 
paying in machine that is now in their local branch. Mr and Mrs D say that the removal of the 
counter service is therefore discriminatory towards Mrs Ds protected characteristics.
Having considered what Mr and Mrs D have said, I do appreciate why theyre unhappy with 
the removal of the counter service in their local HSBC branch. However, I cant agree that 
HSBCs decision to remove the counter was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint. I say this because HSBC has explained that there are members of staff within 
the branch who could assist Mrs D if she needs to use the paying in machine. Furthermore, 
if that is not a viable option for Mrs D, HSBC has also said that Mr and Mrs D can use a 
counter at a local post office to deposit cash or withdraw money from their HSBC current 
account. HSBC has provided evidence to show that the local post office is in fact closer to 
where Mr and Mrs D live than where the HSBC branch is located. So, this looks to be a 
reasonably convenient alternative option for Mr and Mrs D. 
HSBC has also explained that it offers alternative methods for Mr and Mrs D to carry out 
various other banking functions (beyond depositing or withdrawing cash), such as through its 
banking app, online and over the telephone. 
Therefore, in the circumstances, it seems that Mr and Mrs D have reasonable alternatives, 
should they need the use of a counter service. And although Mr and Mrs D say that the 
removal of a counter service has a negative ecological impact, I cant say that is the case 
here, given that the post office counter service looks to be closer to where Mr and Mrs D live 
than the HSBC branch where the counter service was removed.
In summary, although HSBC is required to provide a reasonable adjustment to 
accommodate customers with disabilities, this isnt the same as providing the consumer with 
their preferred option. HSBC is required to ensure that its services are accessible to all of its 
customers. And based on what I have seen in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I 
think they are. As such, when taking all of the above into account, Im unable to say that 
HSBC has treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly or unreasonably in this matter.
Finally, Mr D has also complained that the removal of the counter service is inconvenient for 
him. Mr D says he now has to travel to other HSBC branches that still provide a counter 
service, if he wants to pay in or withdraw foreign currency from his Currency Account. 
I appreciate that this will be inconvenient for Mr D. But as mentioned above, it is essentially 
up to HSBC to decide where it operates and what services it provides. So I cant say it is 
being unreasonable or has done anything wrong, just because this is no longer as 
convenient for Mr D when using his Currency Account, as it was before the local counter 
service was removed.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman