DRN-2377852
The complaint
Ms M complains that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company has turned 
down a cancellation claim she made on her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms M was due to fly to London for a holiday on 9 April 2020. But as a result of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020, the 
airline cancelled Ms Ms flights. So she made a claim on her travel insurance policy.
Chaucer turned down the claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt include 
cover for holidays that had been cancelled due to the FCO advising against all but essential 
travel. It also said that under EU Regulation 261/2004 (EU 261), Ms Ms airline was 
responsible for refunding the cost of her cancelled flights. It noted her airline had offered her 
the chance to either transfer her flight or get a voucher for the costs. So it felt Ms M had 
already been indemnified for her loss.
Ms M was unhappy with Chaucers decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. She noted the policy only 
covered losses a policyholder couldnt get back from elsewhere. As Ms M was entitled to a 
full refund from her airline, she didnt think Ms Ms costs were irrecoverable. So she thought 
it was fair for Chaucer to turn down Ms Ms claim.
Ms M disagreed. She said that given the insurance company had taken payment, it seemed 
it had no liability.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Chaucer to turn down Ms Ms claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the policy terms; 
the relevant law and the circumstances of Ms Ms claim to decide whether Chaucer handled 
it fairly.
Theres no dispute that Ms Ms flights were cancelled by her airline as a result of the FCO 
advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020 and the consequent national 
lockdown. So she wasnt able to travel on holiday as planned. And I can understand why she 
thinks Chaucer should accept and pay her claim.
But in making my decision, Ive looked closely at the terms of Ms Ms policy, as these form 
the basis of her contract with Chaucer. 
The policy includes the following section:
Travel delays  EC Regulations
This policy is not designed to cover costs which are met under the EC Regulation No. 
261/2004. Under this Regulation if you have a confirmed reservation on a flight, and that 
flight is delayed by between two (2) and four (4) hours (length of time depends on the length 
of your flight) the airline must offer you meals, refreshments and hotel accommodation. If the 
delay is more than five (5) hours, the airline must offer to refund your ticket.
The Regulations should apply to all flights, whether budget, chartered or scheduled, 
originating in the EU, or flying into the EU using an EU carrier.
If your flight is delayed or cancelled, you must in the first instance approach your airline and 
clarify with them what costs they will pay under the Regulation.
The cancellation section of the policy also only covers irrecoverable unused travel costs  
costs which cant be claimed back from elsewhere.
Chaucer says that as Ms Ms airline has offered her a voucher for the full value of her trip, 
she hasnt suffered a financial loss which is covered by the policy. And I think the policy 
wording makes it clear that Chaucer doesnt cover flight cancellation costs which airlines are 
legally obliged to refund under EU 261. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter from Ms Ms airline which explains that because itd cancelled her 
flight, it would offer her the option to either transfer to another flight for free, or a voucher for 
the full cost of her booking which she could use at a later date. So I think it was fair for 
Chaucer to conclude that she hadnt suffered a financial loss, because the airline voucher 
would cover the full value of her flights. It doesnt appear that the terms of the credit voucher 
restricted Ms M to flying to her original booked destination. It seems that shes able to book 
flights within any of the airlines scheduled routes. And the voucher didnt seem to include a 
timeframe that it had to be used by. I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that Ms M 
might be able to make use of the voucher in the future. So in my view, the terms of the credit 
voucher arent overly restrictive.
I can understand why Ms M might prefer to get a cash refund for her flight costs.
Especially as I appreciate that future travel plans are currently uncertain. But as Ive
explained above, I think it was fair for Chaucer to consider that Ms M hasnt suffered a 
financial loss in this case.
Ms M may not be happy with the airlines offer of compensation. But it isnt my role to 
determine if its in line with EU 261, as the airline isnt a regulated financial business. And 
Chaucer isnt responsible for how airlines choose to compensate their customers. If Ms Ms 
unhappy with the compensation shes been offered, its open to her to complain to the Civil 
Aviation Authority.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think it was fair for Chaucer to conclude that Ms Ms airline 
was responsible for paying her cancellation costs. So I think it was fair and reasonable for it 
to turn down her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman