DRN-3291528
The complaint
Mr B complains that Metro Bank PLC caused his other bank account to be blocked for a 
week.
What happened
Mr B says he raised a dispute over a £100 payment. He says Metro incorrectly thought it 
was about a payment to his other bank I will call H which meant H blocked his account in 
March 2021 for about a week. Mr B says as a result of the H account block he was unable to 
go to college that week or work and meant he couldnt buy essential items, He says he 
should be entitled to further compensation on top of the £100 Metro has paid.
Metro accepts it made a mistake by contacting H instead of a different business. It says a 
human error caused the mistake and has paid appropriate compensation of £100.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought there was no issue a mistake was made and thought Mr Bs H account was blocked 
for a week. She thought Mr B was unable to attend college, work or buy food which would 
have had a significant impact. The investigator recommended Metro pay £250 compensation 
for the inconvenience and distress caused.
Mr B accepts that view and has provided a college attendance record which he says shows 
he didnt attend college that week.
Metro doesnt accept that view and says the record shows a number of missed attendances 
at college by Mr B over a longer time period.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Metros compensation award doesnt go 
far enough but for slightly different reasons to those of the investigator. I dont consider those 
slight differences require a provisional decision.
There is no question here that Metro made a mistake which resulted in H blocking Mr Bs 
account access for a week. I have no doubt that mistake caused Mr B inconvenience and 
distress in not being able to access his money and can see that at that time in March 2021 
he had what I think was a fairly small balance in his Metro account.
I appreciate what Metro says about Mr Bs college attendance and agree with it that there 
are on the face of the document he provided, a number of missed attendances on other 
occasions. So, I cant fairly conclude Metros actions were the cause of Mr B failing to attend 
college and I have not seen any evidence of loss of income from work. I also dont think it 
clear if Mr B had access to other accounts.
The key issue is the level of compensation. Im satisfied that an account block would have 
caused Mr B inconvenience and I have no doubt that meant speaking to H as well as 
attending its branch to try and sort matters out. I can also see that Metro has provided us 
with about 14 telephone call recordings between it and Mr B. So, Im satisfied Metros 
mistake had a significant impact on Mr Bs time and can see that he spent some 
considerable time on the telephone to Metro about this issue. I accept that some calls were 
connected with the original issue, but I am satisfied there are still a large number of calls 
made in any event even excluding the calls to H.
For those reasons I dont think £100 compensation fairly reflects the level of inconvenience 
caused here or fairly reflects the amount of calls Mr B made to resolve matters. I also think 
that this was a mistake that meant an account was blocked for a week which is a significant 
period of time and has a significant impact.
Putting things right
Metro should pay Mr B a further £150 compensation making a total of £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr B £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman