DRN-3364197
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with the service hes received from Nationwide Building Society regarding 
monetary transfers made to an overseas account.
What happened
Mr W transferred money on three occasions to an overseas account. The overseas account 
was able to receive and hold funds as GBP, and so on each occasion Mr W instructed 
Nationwide to transfer the money as GBP so as to avoid the transferred amounts being 
reduced by the impact of currency exchange rates. 
However, on all three occasions, the recipient account holder confirmed that the money had 
been received into the overseas account in the local currency, and that the value of each 
transferred amount had reduced by approximately 3% as a result. Mr W wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Ws complaint. They confirmed that theyd transferred the money in 
GBP as per Mr Ws instructions, and that any conversion to the overseas currency had been 
implemented by the recipient overseas bank, over whose actions Nationwide had no control. 
Because of this, Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that 
Nationwide had acted unfairly towards Mr W in how theyd instructed and processed the 
transfers, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr W remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must be frustrating for Mr W, having wanted the transferred money to 
have been sent to the recipient bank account as GBP to preserve the transfer value 
amounts, to have then learned that the amounts received by the intended recipient were 
significantly lower than anticipated, primarily because the money had been received into the 
recipient account in the local currency and had been adversely impacted by the currency 
exchange process as a result.
While I empathise with Mr W here, and understand why he might be unhappy, it must be 
recognised that this is a complaint made specifically against Nationwide. As such, my remit 
only permits me to consider whether Nationwide themselves can be deemed to have acted 
unfairly towards Mr W, within the context of his complaint. Additionally, it must be confirmed 
that my remit doesnt extend to the actions of the recipient overseas bank, over whose 
actions Nationwide have no control and which, as an overseas bank, sit outside the 
jurisdictional scope of this UK based Financial Ombudsman Service.  
And having reviewed all the information submitted to me by both Mr W and Nationwide, I find 
it very difficult to conclude that Nationwide have acted unreasonably or unfairly towards Mr 
W in how theyve processed the transfer instructions given to them by Mr W here.
One reason I say this is because its apparent that Nationwide did follow Mr Ws instructions 
and did transfer the money in GBP on all three occasions, and its similarly apparent that 
Nationwides UK intermediary bank also didnt convert the transferred money into the local 
currency of the intended recipient account but processed the transfers in GBP. Furthermore, 
Nationwide have also been able to confirm that neither they nor their UK intermediary bank 
charged any fees on the transfers  beyond the standard £20 SWIFT transfer fee applied to 
each transfer which Mr W was made aware of by Nationwide and consented to before the 
transfers were instructed. 
Accordingly, given that Im satisfied that any loss in received transfer value about which Mr 
W is unhappy wasnt because of any actions undertaken by Nationwide or their UK 
intermediary bank, it follows that Im also satisfied that any reduction in received transfer 
value can only be as a result of the actions of the overseas recipient bank or any 
intermediaries that overseas bank may have employed. 
And given that, as explained previously, Nationwide have no control over the actions of the 
overseas recipient bank or its intermediaries, Im consequently satisfied that Nationwide 
shouldnt fairly or reasonably be considered accountable for the reduced received transfer 
amounts received by the recipient account holder.
Im aware that Mr W feels that Nationwide should have provided more support to him in 
trying to resolve this matter with the overseas recipient bank, and that Nationwide should 
have warned him that the recipient bank may act in the manner that they did before they 
accepted his transfer instructions.
But given that Nationwides authority ends with the transfers of the money  which as 
explained Im satisfied they processed in accordance with Mr Ws instructions  it wouldnt 
be expected that they would pursue this matter on Mr Ws behalf with the recipient overseas 
bank. Rather, that would be a matter for Mr W and the recipient bank account holder to 
pursue, given that they are the affected parties and that the overseas recipient account 
holder holds the relevant relationship with the overseas bank.
Additionally, given that Nationwide have no control over the actions of the recipient overseas 
bank, I feel that it was incumbent on Mr W himself to have understood the possible actions 
that the overseas bank might take, and this is especially the case following the first transfer 
where the amount received by the intended recipient was received in the local currency with 
a lower value than anticipated as a result. 
Mr W has also stated that Nationwide confirmed to him following that first transfer that the 
recipient bank wouldnt take the same actions for the subsequent transfers. But I havent 
seen anything in any of the information provided to me by either Mr W or Nationwide that 
corroborates Mr Ws position in this regard. 
And while I wasnt present or privy to any of the face to face conversations that Mr W had 
with Nationwide staff in branch when he was instructing the transfers, I feel thats it more 
likely than not, on balance, that Mr W wasnt told by Nationwide staff that the recipient 
overseas bank wouldnt take specific actions, given that I feel that Nationwides staff would 
be aware that they had no influence on the actions of the overseas bank.All of which means that I dont feel that Nationwide have acted unreasonably towards Mr W 
in how theyve processed his monetary transfer requests or that they should be fairly held 
accountable for the actions of the overseas bank that received those transfers. And it follows 
from this that I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr W was wanting, and I hope that hes able to 
find an agreeable resolution to this issue via other channels. I also hope that Mr W will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman