DRN-2768675
The complaint
Ms Ms complaint is that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) failed to provide her with a 
readable copy of her mortgage documents.
What happened
Ms M raised a data subject access request (DSAR) to YBS for documents relating to 
a mortgage application in 1991. YBS provided the documents but Ms M said they 
were unreadable.
Ms M wasnt happy about this and complained to YBS.
YBS said that over time it had reduced the amount of paper copies it held and had 
scanned Ms Ms documents onto its system around 1998. It said it had provided the 
information Ms M asked for but couldnt make the quality any better.
Ms M didnt agree and brought her complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint shouldnt be upheld 
because they said that due to the age of the documentation it wasnt likely YBS 
would have access to a blank, or clearer copy on which the information would be 
legible. They also confirmed that YBS no longer held an original copy of the 
documents, so they were unable to recommend it do anything further.
Ms M doesnt agree, she says the most relevant information she requires is 
unreadable and believes the quality of what was provided can be improved. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
I have no power to to comment on whether YBS fulfilled its duties under Ms Ms 
DSAR or the quality and thoroughness of its efforts to provide the information. That is 
a matter more suited to the Information Commissioners Office and I understand     
Ms M has referred a complaint to them also.
Therefore, the issues I am able to consider in relation to this complaint are whether 
YBS acted fairly and reasonably in regard to Ms Ms request.
I have some sympathy for Ms Ms position here. I agree that the documents that have 
been provided are generally of low quality; they are around 30 years old in origin and 
have been subsequently scanned onto another system.
I can see that when challenged YBS has confirmed these are the only copies of  
Ms Ms documents that it holds and as such it isnt able to provide a clearer copy. It 
acknowledged that scanning Ms Ms documents has resulted in a lower quality copy 
based on the scanning technology in 1998. Im satisfied YBS has provided a 
reasonable explanation here and so I dont find its actions unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
Therefore having considered everything, whilst I agree with Ms M about the overall 
quality of the documents she received, Im satisfied YBS has engaged with her on 
this matter and explained why this is, so I wont be requiring it to do anything further.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman