DRN-2752724
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK Plc when he asked for 
copy bank statements.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr G contacted Barclays and asked for copies of his bank statements for 
2004 to 2009. He was told that hed have to put this request in writing because Barclays 
would need to pass the request onto their third-party data processing company. Mr G was 
unhappy with a third-party company having access to his data, and with having to visit a 
local post office during the pandemic to send his letter. But he did as he was asked. 
Mr G complained to Barclays on 29 December 2020. In their response, Barclays explained 
they dont hold records for more than six years, so the statements werent available. But they 
offered to send him signed and stamped copies of internal ledgers showing his transactions. 
Barclays paid Mr G £25 compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused, and said 
theyd call him on 5 January 2021 to see if he wanted to go ahead with their ledger offer.
But Barclays didnt call Mr G as they said they would, and Mr G called Barclays about this. 
On 13 January 2021, Barclays explained to Mr G that their process was actually to print the 
ledger information onto headed paper. They also explained to Mr G that the terms of his 
account allowed them to use a third-party data processing company. And they paid Mr G an 
additional £30 compensation because of the mis-information theyd given.
Mr G was unhappy with Barclays response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Barclays had given Mr G incorrect information, and this caused him 
some inconvenience. She also said that the terms of Mr Gs account allowed Barclays to use 
a third-party company to process data, so she didnt think theyd done anything wrong by 
doing so. And she thought the £55 Barclays had paid was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think it was reasonable that Barclays didnt 
call him back on 5 January 2021, or that they wouldve closed his complaint if he hadnt 
phoned them. Hes unhappy that he was told the incorrect process by more than one person, 
and that he was asked to go out during a pandemic to post a letter that wasnt needed  he 
considers that this was reckless and dangerous advice. Because of this, Mr G doesnt think 
the compensation is anywhere near satisfactory for all the effort stress, anxiety and time 
that I have gone through to try and sort this problem out.
Because Mr G didnt agree with the investigator, this case has been passed to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address this complaint, I think it would be beneficial to set out the scope of what Im 
looking at when making my decision. I can also only consider whats known as regulated 
activities. And complaint handling isnt a regulated activity according to the rules set down by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. So, while I appreciate that Mr G is unhappy with how 
Barclays dealt with his complaint, including not calling him back as they said they would, and 
closing down his complaint without him agreeing to this; these arent things Im able to look 
at. So I wont be referring to them in my decision.
The facts of this case arent disputed. Mr G asked Barclays for copies of old statements 
(which he couldnt obtain online), and they told him the wrong process. They told him what 
hed need to do if he wanted a copy of all of the information they held about him  known as 
a data subject access request or DSAR - not what he needed to do to get copy statements.
And, when telling Mr G why they couldnt provide the copies hed asked for, Barclays also 
gave Mr G incorrect information about what they could provide. Barclays acknowledged their 
errors, apologised for these, and have already paid Mr G a total of £55 compensation for any 
inconvenience he was caused as a result.
Ive read through the terms and conditions for Mr Gs account and they explain how and why 
Barclays will use personal data. They also say we may also share your information with our 
trusted 3rd parties. Because of this, I dont think that Barclays have done anything wrong by 
using a third-party data processing company to deal with queries such as DSAR requests. 
And I dont think that Barclays are obliged to share the details of the third-party company, so 
I wouldnt expect them to do so.
But I would expect them to be able to confirm the correct process for things like statement 
requests. And by not doing so, they caused Mr G some distress and inconvenience  he 
needed to send the requested letter from a local post office because he wanted to make 
sure that hed used the right stamp for the size and weight of the letter, and he wanted to 
send the letter recorded delivery. Which meant he had to do this during a pandemic and 
when social distancing rules were in place. This was a visit Mr G ideally didnt want to do 
and couldve been avoided had he been given the correct information initially.
When Mr G was told how Barclays could get the information hes asked for to him, he was 
initially told incorrect information about this would be provided. I appreciate this wouldve 
been annoying for Mr G, especially given the fact that hed already been told the wrong 
process, but I dont think this wouldve caused him any additional inconvenience.
Barclays have paid Mr G £55 compensation (in two payments of £25 and £30) for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by their errors. This is in line with what I wouldve 
awarded so, for this reason, I wont be asking them to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman