DRN-2851194
The complaint
Mr J complains about the sale of his unemployment cover by Assured Futures Limited.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr J took out the policy through Assured. The aim of the policy was to 
pay benefit if Mr J couldnt work because of unemployment. 
The following year, Mr J was made redundant. He therefore made a claim under the policy, 
but the insurer turned this down. It said Mr J hadnt been eligible for the cover because he 
wasnt a homeowner of the property where he lived at the time of taking out the policy. The 
insurer therefore returned the premiums Mr J had paid. 
Mr J complained to Assured about the sale of the policy. He said he hadnt been made 
aware that hed need to be a homeowner of the property where he lived to be eligible for the 
cover. Assured didnt uphold his complaint, and so he brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied Assured had 
asked Mr J whether he was a homeowner and named on the mortgage, and Mr J had 
confirmed he was. The investigator therefore didnt think Assured had mis-sold the policy.
Mr J didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be eligible for the policy, Mr J was required to be a homeowner of his normal place of 
residence. The policy explains that means he needed to either own the property outright, or 
with a mortgage. 
Mr J doesnt own the property where he lives and isnt named on the mortgage there.
The policy was taken out over the phone. Ive therefore listened to the call that took place 
between Mr J and Assured. 
When Mr J was asked about the bills he paid, he explained that he paid towards the home. 
The adviser then asked if he was named on the mortgage or if he was renting, and Mr J 
confirmed he was named on the mortgage with a family member. Later in the call, Mr J told 
the adviser that he was a homeowner with a mortgage at the property where he resided.
On 18 September 2019, Assured sent Mr J a welcome pack via its client portal. This tracks 
and records when the information was read. This pack included a brief outline of the cover, 
as well as the full policy wording and the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). 
The policy wording confirmed the eligibility requirements. The IPID gives a summary of the 
key information about the policy. This confirmed that Mr J must own his normal place of 
residence either outright or with a mortgage.
I understand Mr J disputes receiving this information. However, the information weve 
received from Assured shows that the information was sent at 11.32am, and that Mr J read it 
on 4.22pm the same day.
Mr J has explained to this service that he was named on the mortgage where he lives, but 
he removed his name before 2020 so he could get a mortgage for another property 
elsewhere. Though he continued to pay half the mortgage payments where he was living.
Mr J seems to be suggesting that he was named on the mortgage when the policy was taken 
out. Hes provided a mortgage statement dated January 2019 which confirms he was named 
on the mortgage for 2018. But he hasnt provided any evidence to support that he was 
named on the mortgage in September 2019. 
I do have sympathy for Mr J. He made a mistake which meant he wasnt eligible for the 
particular policy hed taken out. However, Im satisfied that Assured took appropriate steps to 
make sure that Mr J was eligible for the cover before selling him the policy. It then sent Mr J 
sufficient information about the cover to make him aware that there was a requirement for 
him to be a homeowner in the property where he lived, in order to be eligible for the cover. If 
Mr J had told Assured the correct information, it could have arranged for him to take out a 
different policy that didnt require him to be a homeowner. 
If Mr J does obtain evidence that supports he was named on the mortgage when he took out 
the policy, he should forward this to the insurer. 
Mr J has asked this service to listen to a call a family member had with Assured about their 
own policy, as he thinks this supports his concerns relating to the sale. However, as our 
investigator has explained, it wouldnt be appropriate for us to listen to that call. The relevant 
call was the one that took place between Assured and Mr J when the policy was sold to him 
and, as Ive said, Im satisfied that Assured made sure during that call that Mr J was eligible 
for the policy that it recommended to him.  
I therefore dont find that Assured mis-sold the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Aqeel Ahmad
Ombudsman