DRN-3200809
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Great Lakes Insurance SEs (Great Lakes) service in 
connection with his mobility scooter insurance policy.
In trying to sort out issues with his policy Mr A has been dealing with a company who 
administer the policy on Great Lakes behalf. But as Great Lakes provides the insurance 
cover, it remains responsible for the decisions and actions concerning how the policy 
operates, regardless of who takes those decisions or actions. So I will refer to all those 
things as being done by Great Lakes. 
What happened
Mr A damaged his scooter in an accident. He contacted Great Lakes for help. It initially 
asked a specialist mobility company (the mobility company) to assess the damage to Mr As 
scooter. But the mobility company didn't fix the scooter and Great Lakes later authorised 
Mr As chosen repairer (the repairer) to fix it. The repairer did so and Mr A said he was 
happy with the repairs in August 2020. But, in October 2020 Mr A told Great Lakes that a 
light on the scooter that was also damaged in the accident hadn't been fixed. Great Lakes 
authorised the repairer to fix the light. 
In March 2021 Mr A told Great Lakes he was still having problems with his scooter, 
particularly a problem with its frame. Great Lakes advised him to get a report from an 
engineer. Mr A asked engineers from the scooters manufacturer to examine it. Ill refer to 
the manufacturer and their engineer as Q. Q noted that a number of the scooters parts, 
including its C-Frame, werent original and had been substituted from another model of 
scooter. Q said they couldn't say why that had happened. They said that the scooter wasn't 
safe to ride.
Great Lakes contacted the repairer. The repairer confirmed what work hed carried out 
because of the accident. He said that, at that time, to the trained eye there had been nothing 
wrong with the scooters frame, which he described as looking perfect. But he said that 
after completing the repairs caused in the accident Mr A had asked him to replace the 
scooters C-Frame with one from Mr As old scooter. The repairer also told Great Lakes that 
hed done other work for Mr A not associated with the original accident. Great Lakes told 
Mr A it wasn't responsible for any further repairs to the scooter. 
Mr A complained. Great Lakes replied to his complaint in May 2021. Amongst other things it 
said it wasn't responsible for the quality of any work which it hadn't authorised.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She didn't think 
Great Lakes needed to take any further action. Mr A didn't agree so his complaints been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr As made a number of points. I've considered everything hes 
told us and sent to us. Ive also looked at everything Great Lakes sent to us including all its 
contact notes with Mr A, the repairer and Q. And while I've considered everything provided 
carefully I don't intend to address each and every issue raised or referred to. In particular, 
Mr A has raised a number of concerns, for example regarding the renewal of his policy, 
which happened after Great Lakes sent its complaint response to him. But those aren't 
issues that he's complained to Great Lakes about directly and as far as I'm aware, it hasn't 
responded to them. So in those circumstances I won't be addressing those issues in this 
decision. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding complaint points 
which Great Lakes did reply to in May 2021 and which are still clearly of concern to Mr A.
Its apparent to me that Mr As main concern is that, after the repairer had fixed his scooter, it 
still wasnt running properly and that most significantly it had a problem with its frame. Mr A 
thinks Great Lakes should have arranged for his scooter to be repaired so that it was running 
properly again. 
I can understand that Mr A relies on his scooter to get around and so I can see why he'd 
want such issues sorted out as quickly as possible. But, simply because Great Lakes had 
authorised repairs previously doesn't mean it is responsible for everything that happened to 
Mr As scooter after the authorised repairs were finished.
Great Lakes is only required to intervene in things covered by Mr As policy. And of 
relevance to this complaint, that means damage caused in an accident. In this case 
Great Lakes told us that the mobility company that initially assessed the damage to Mr As 
scooter caused by the accident didn't refer to any issues with any component part of its 
frame. Similarly the repairer didn't find any issue with the C-Frame or any other part of the 
frame when he prepared his estimate to repair the damage. And, after he finished that work, 
Mr A said he was satisfied with it. It was only many months later, in March 2021, that he 
reported a problem with the frame to Great Lakes. Although in the meantime he'd asked the 
repairer to replace the C-frame - but Great Lakes wasn't aware of that initially. 
But, as Mr A said that the scooters ongoing problems were caused by the initial accident 
Great Lakes suggested that Mr A ask another engineer to examine it. Mr A asked Q to look 
at it. I need to be clear that Q was acting on Mr As instruction. That means that Great Lakes 
isn't responsible for any actions Q took and how they communicated with Mr A. And as I'm 
only looking at Mr As complaint about Great Lakes I'm not going to comment on any 
concerns Mr A might have about anything Q did or didn't do. But Q found that a number of 
the scooters parts, including the C-Frame, werent original and said it wasn't safe to ride. Q 
said they didn't know why the C-Frame had been replaced except that Mr A had told them it 
had happened because of an accident.
The repairer confirmed that hed replaced the C-Frame acting on Mr As wishes some 
months after hed completed most of the accident repairs. That wasn't work that Great Lakes 
had authorised and theres no evidence, beyond Mr As comments, that work was required 
because of the accident. Neither the mobility company nor the repairer identified any 
problem with any part of the scooters frame as a result of the accident. In fact the repairer 
said, to his trained eye, it looked perfect. And when Q examined the scooter, they said the 
replacement C-Frame was already fitted to the scooter and they couldn't say why that had 
happened. So, it appears that two experts in repairing mobility scooters, the mobility company and the repairer, couldn't find any problem with any part of the frame caused by 
the accident that would require its replacement. And, the evidence indicates that the repairer 
only replaced the C-Frame because Mr A asked him to. 
As I've said above Great Lakes would only be responsible for issues covered by Mr As 
policy. But I haven't seen any evidence, beyond Mr As comments that any issue with any 
part of the frame, or any ongoing concerns Mr A might have about how the scooter runs, 
was caused by the accident or the following repairs. And in those circumstances I think it 
was reasonable for Great Lakes to say that it wasn't responsible for any further repair issues 
with Mr As scooter. So I don't think it needs to take any further action.
Ill take this opportunity to repeat that in this decision I've only looked at events associated 
with the complaint Great Lakes responded to in May 2021. So I haven't considered any other 
issues, for example concerning the renewal of Mr As policy, which he might have had cause 
to complain about since then.
I understand that Mr As concerns about his scooter are of great importance to him. Im also 
aware, that my conclusion is likely to come as something of a blow to him. Thats sometimes 
an unfortunate effect from the work that we do. But I need to be clear that were an informal, 
independent and impartial complaints handling service. That means that in every case we 
look at all the evidence provided by both the complainant and the business complained 
about. And when we do that we don't take sides. Instead we have to weigh up what the 
evidence is telling us about whether or not a business (like Great Lakes) has done 
something wrong, and whether it needs to do anything to put things right. And that means 
that we might make a decision that one or both sides to the complaint don't agree with. But 
where that happens that doesn't mean that were biased against or favour one side or the 
other. 
So while I have some sympathy for Mr As position, I have to come to my decision based 
solely on what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. And thats 
what I've done in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman