DRN-3018231
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont reimburse money he lost when he fell victim to 
an investment scam.
What happened
In 2019, Mr H was called about an overseas investment opportunity, to buy shares in a well- 
known device and software company. After carrying out some research and receiving a 
contract bundle, including a tax form for completion, Mr H invested. He made three 
payments to an international account - 13 June 2019 - £4,773.02, 6 September 2019 - 
£5,665.50 and 25 September 2019 - £8,388.06. And on each occasion Mr H was charged a 
£25 fee as the transactions were international.  
Mr H realised hed become the victim of a scam when he tried to withdraw funds from his 
investment and was told hed need to pay tax in order to do that. He reported the scam to 
Santander in December 2019. It sent a request to recover the funds to the recipient bank on 
the same day. Santander declined to reimburse the transactions made as they had been 
requested and authenticated by Mr H. It was notified in February 2020 that there were no 
funds to recover in the recipient account. 
Mr H complained but Santander stood by its decision to decline to reimburse the lost funds. 
So Mr H asked us to look into the matter. He was also unhappy as he was led to believe the 
£25 fee he was charged on each occasion was to ensure protection against such scams and 
criminal activity, and he doesnt believe Santander has done enough to ensure the recipient 
bank has complied with international regulations in that regard. 
Our investigator was satisfied the bank hadnt done anything wrong. He concluded the 
payments made werent unusual such that he thought Santander ought to have intervened in 
them. He was also satisfied it was entitled to charge the £25 fee as per its terms and 
conditions and there was nothing to indicate it was a form of protection. 
Mr H has asked for the matter to be reviewed. In summary, he has said:
The other large payments coming out of his account were to accounts in the UK in 
his name (and he argues they werent payments but a transfer of funds). The 
payments in dispute were international and so should have alerted Santander to 
potential fraud. And any large amounts into his accounts before these were also from 
UK accounts. This was also a first payment to a new payee. 
He doesnt consider he authorised payments but transactions. And part of the 
process for the transaction is verification of the recipient account, which is carried out 
by the clearance bank. Both international and UK law requires that the account 
holder has been vetted by the beneficiary bank. Both UK and international law 
supersede a banks terms and conditions. 
He doesnt agree it is for him to discuss any security failures with the beneficiary 
bank, rather that is something for the international banking bubble. 
Santander commissioned an intermediate bank to carry out a task required by law 
and as the main contractor it is liable for what went wrong. It did not instruct the 
clearance bank to carry out legally required checks on a first-time international 
payee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr H and Santander that although I have only 
summarised the evidence and arguments made, I have read and considered everything 
provided. I wont be commenting on every point made when making my decision, I will be 
focusing on the crux of the issue: did anything go wrong when the payments were executed 
and was Santander entitled to charges the fees it did for carry out the transactions. 
Mr H has made distinctions between him making a transaction request, or a transfer of funds 
and a payment being made. I make no such distinction and will refer to payment or 
transaction when referring to the sums that have gone into and come out of Mr Hs account. 
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and in accordance with the banking terms 
and conditions, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue 
delay. The starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer 
even if they are duped into giving that authorisation or it was obtained by third-party fraud. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
The first question I therefore need to consider is whether Santander breached that duty 
when executing Mr Hs payment requests?
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr H was duped into authorising three separate 
payments to invest into an overseas investment opportunity. These payments took place in 
June and September 2019. Although Mr H says these were his first international payments 
from the account, there is no dispute that he authorised them using his security credentials. 
So I conclude these were authorised payments  for which Mr H is liable unless there is 
evidence that the bank could and should reasonably have done more to protect him, which 
issue I now turn to. 
The sums paid were not insubstantial and so I have considered whether these ought to have 
triggered the banks alert systems such that it ought to have questioned Mr H about whether 
he was a victim of a scam and intervened. In considering this I have noted the below about 
the operation of Mr Hs account (those in italics are those in dispute):
Date In out
6 August 2018 £6,500
17 August 2018 £6,000
5 December 2018 £5,000
3 January 2019 £6,000
13 March 2019 £10,980.96
15 March 2019 £10,900
3 April 2019 £5,000
3 April 2019 £5,10013 June 2019 £5,000
13 June 2019 £4,773.02
2 July 2019 £12,828.15
3 July 2019 £10,000
6 September 2019 £6,000
6 September 2019 £5660.50
25 September 2019 £8,500
25 September 2019 £8,388.06
As can be seen there is a distinct pattern before Mr H makes large payments out of his 
account  large payments are transferred in a short time before, and the same happens with 
those payments in dispute. 
I accept some of these payments were made to accounts held in Mr Hs name. But not all of 
them were, others were made to another financial institution (albeit I accept ultimately for an 
investment in Mr Hs name). And the other payments were either for similar, or higher 
amounts that Mr H had not queried or disputed. 
Mr H has argued the payments being international to a new payee means they are unusual 
and uncharacteristic and so Santander ought to have intervened. I accept Mr Hs point but 
only to a certain extent. Many thousands of payments must be made to new overseas 
payees every day. I dont think it would feasible, or even reasonable, to expect a bank to 
intervene in all of those  there is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of all 
payment-service users and/or commercial efficiency. And they arent the only considerations 
that factor into whether a bank ought reasonably to have been on alert for potential fraud. 
Having taken everything into account, Im not persuaded the payments were so unusual or 
so uncharacteristic that they ought to have triggered an alert or given the bank grounds for 
suspecting fraud. 
It follows that I find no persuasive evidence that Santander breached its duty to Mr H or that 
it shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment requests he had made and 
authorised. 
When notified of fraud, we would expect a bank to try and recover any lost funds. Im 
satisfied Santanders records show it made this request to the beneficiary bank within a 
matter of hours. Its unfortunate it took some time for the recipient bank to respond, but when 
it did so it explained that no funds remained to be returned. 
I turn now to the £25 fee Mr H made on each on transfer. There is no dispute that the terms 
and conditions set out that such a fee applies to the payments Mr H made. What is in 
dispute is what Mr H is entitled to expect for that payment. 
Mr H reported to Santander that when the first payment was made, he queried the £25 fee 
and was told this was for cyber security  to comply with international banking regulations, 
fraud prevention and anti-terrorism measures. He also argues that when opening accounts a 
bank is required to know its customers and do requisite checks and he expects the same to 
been have done to the same standard for the recipient bank. It appears Mr H is under the 
impression the £25 fee he pays means the individual destination account ought to have been 
checked before his payments were allowed to be made. 
Im not sure who provided that information, but it has since been explained to Mr H the fee 
was for the intermediary bank who makes the transfer. So it appears he has been given 
wrong information. Whilst he doesnt accept that (because there is also a difference in exchange rates between Santander and the Bank of England), I am satisfied with that 
explanation. I am not aware of any international regulation, nor has Mr H provided any legal 
authority to support his argument, that Santander is under any obligation to ensure the 
recipient account, whether that is in the UK or abroad, has been opened legitimately. Such 
matters are for the home state and any regulatory authority that has been put in place to 
oversee such matters, and for the individual bank, or other financial institution, to 
demonstrate compliance with any requirements put in place.
It follows that I find Santander was under no duty or obligation, either itself, or through any 
intermediary bank, to ensure any compliance standards had been met by the beneficiary 
bank. 
I do understand Mr H feels very strongly about this matter. And its very unfortunate that he 
has been the victim of fraud and lost money as a result. Despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation he finds himself in, as I havent found Santander hasnt done anything wrong, I 
dont require it to reimburse the lost funds or the associated fees. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman