DRN-2773198
Complaint
Mr J says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy
Background
Mr J completed a leaflet application for a credit card in 2006. The PPI began at the same 
time as the credit card was taken out. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
On 10 March 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision I explained 
that I agreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. But I provided some further 
clarification and gave Mr J and RBS an opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I 
said:
Mr J says he took out the policy by completing a leaflet hed been given. He says the 
cancellation terms of the PPI were never explained to him and he did not know anything 
about PPI. But RBS says the PPI was taken out when Mr J applied for his credit card by post 
and has provided a copy of the application form. Looking at the completed card application 
form, I can see Mr Js personal details and details relating to his financial circumstances 
were completed by hand. There is also an instruction at the top of the application form which 
asks Mr J to return the form using an attached pre-paid envelope. So, based on what Ive 
seen I think it is more likely than not the sale took place by post. 
RBS should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional and gain    
Mr Js consent before applying PPI to his account. Looking closely at Mr Js credit card 
application form, beneath the box where he signed to agree to the Credit Agreement, there 
is another box which talks about other available optional products. Mr J was given the option 
of ticking a box next to the statement I wish to purchase Payment Protection. On Mr Js 
application form, there is a tick in the box, indicating he wanted it. Mr J has also signed 
within the same box to confirm he wanted to take out the PPI.
Ive also noted that on the application form, in the same section where he was asked 
whether he wanted to take out PPI, Mr J also had the option of selecting whether he wanted 
to purchase Card Registration. But Mr J didnt select this product. This suggests Mr J was 
aware of the fact that it was his choice when it came to any of the additional products listed 
on the application form. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr J agreed to 
the PPI knowing he had a choice. 
I am aware that Mr J has said in response to the adjudicators assessment that he had a 
telephone conversation with the RBS sales team and was told to tick and sign both boxes  
one for the credit card and one for the PPI. RBS has told us it has no record of any contact 
with Mr J prior to the sale. Whilst Ive thought about what Mr J has said, I still think its more 
likely than not that he agreed to the PPI, knowing he had a choice. Based on the available 
information, I cant see anything to suggest Mr J had to take the PPI out or that the 
application form didnt make it clear as to what Mr J was signing up for. In the section for the 
PPI, it does explain it is optional and sets out the cost of the PPI. If Mr J didnt want the PPI, 
I wouldnt have expected him to tick the box for the PPI and sign separately for it. 
Mr J has said he cant remember if RBS recommended that he bought PPI and RBS says it 
didnt. As Ive concluded its more likely than not that the sale took place by post, I dont think 
RBS recommend the policy to Mr J. This means RBS didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. It was up to Mr J to decide if the policy was right for him, taking into account his 
employer benefits and any other means at the time. 
RBS has provided a copy of the policy wording from 2006. Based on this, I think Mr J 
wouldve been eligible for cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover  such as unusual employment circumstances. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mr J. 
Mr J has told us he was entitled to less than 3 months sick pay from his employer if he was 
too unwell to work. Hes also told us he had some savings, as well as a car and motorcycle 
which he could sell to help cover his credit card repayments if he was unable to work. In 
addition to this, he says he had other insurance policies he had taken out that he could have 
relied on. 
Having thought about what Mr J has told us about sick pay, I dont think this means the PPI 
wouldnt have been useful for him. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to the sick pay he would have received from his employer and also would have paid out for 
longer than he would have received full pay  up to 12 months. The PPI also would have 
paid a benefit if Mr J was ever made redundant. 
Ive also thought about what Mr J has said about being able to use the savings he had. 
While I dont doubt what hes told us, I dont think this means he didnt need the PPI. The 
PPI would have enabled Mr J to use his savings to cover any other financial commitments 
he may have had at what could be a difficult time. The PPI also would have meant he could 
keep his car and motorcycle, which presumably he still wanted. 
Finally, Ive considered what Mr J had told RBS about having other insurance policies in 
place. He said he already had life insurance and critical illness  cover with another provider, 
and also had accident, sickness and redundancy cover  which he could have relied on in the 
event he was unable to work., In order to consider whether the cover he said he had would 
make a difference to the outcome of this complaint, we asked Mr J for some additional 
information about the cover he said he had. In response, Mr J said he had a couple of 
insurance policies in place but wasnt able to provide any further information about them.  
Having thought about what Mr J has said about his life and critical illness cover, Im not 
persuaded this shows he didnt need the PPI. These types of polices offer a different type of 
cover than PPI and generally would only pay out in the event of death or serious illness. As 
the PPI wouldve paid out if Mr J lost his job or was unable to work due to any illness, I think 
this shows he couldve found the cover useful if he ever fell on hard times. 
Turning to Mr Js point about having existing accident, sickness and redundancy cover in 
place. In order for me to uphold his complaint on this point, I would need to see persuasive 
evidence that Mr J already had a duplicate or similar policy to the cover provided by the PPI 
policy. Because Mr J hasnt been able to provide us with any further information to support what hes told us, I havent seen enough to persuade me that the PPI wouldnt have been 
useful to him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Mr J doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover  and based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been useful to him. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying 
it. 
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr J, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. 
Both Mr J and RBS responded, but neither had anything further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
As neither Mr J nor RBS provided any further evidence or arguments for me to look at, Ive 
reached the same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
So I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. That means I dont think Mr Js PPI policy was mis-sold. 
So, RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr J, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold the 
complaint. So The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr J.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman