DRN-4428056
The complaint
The estate of Mr M complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited failed to supply 
accurate account statements.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
The late Mr M had a credit card with a business Ill call N that was opened in February 2018. 
The credit card was ultimately closed at default by N. In March 2020 Link acquired the debt 
and went on to attempt to collect the outstanding balance from Mr M.
In March 2022 Ms M, the late Mr Ms partner and executor of his estate, contacted Link to 
advise he had passed away. A copy of the death certificate was supplied along with a 
request for details of the outstanding balance. Ms M has explained that she asked for credit 
card statements that could be used to verify how the debt came about so she could settle 
the estate.
Link contacted N and it sent some credit card statements which were forwarded to Ms M on 
the estate of Mr Ms behalf. But Ms M contacted Link again as the statements were 
incomplete with pages missing and only went back to August 2019, so didnt show how the 
debt had come about. Ms M asked Link to forward full statement evidence going back to 
when the late Mr M opened his credit card in February 2018. Link didnt go back to N for 
further statement evidence and said Ms M had been given sufficient information to show 
there was a balance outstanding.
On the estate of Mr Ms behalf, Ms M raised a complaint and Link issued a final response on 
12 June 2023. Link said the statements related to when the account was owned by N and 
said it wasnt responsible for missing pages or information. Link said the statements 
provided sufficient explanation to show how the outstanding balance accrued. There was no 
offer to go back to N to request a more complete set of statements for Ms M.
Ms M referred the estate of Mr Ms complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and it 
was passed to an investigator They thought Link had dealt with the complaint fairly and 
didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms M has confirmed that after Links final response she was 
able to obtain a full set of credit card statements from N directly, at some inconvenience. The 
investigator thought Link had dealt with the estate of Mr Ms case fairly and didnt ask it to do 
anything else.
Ms M asked to appeal and said Link had failed to act in line with industry regulations and 
that it was obliged to provide post sale information to respond to reasonable requests for 
information. Ms M added that the way Link had handled her enquiries had caused an 
unreasonable level of inconvenience and that shed incurred costs sending special delivery 
post. As Ms M asked to appeal, the estate of Mr Ms complaint has been passed to me to
make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Ms M has explained she wanted to verify the outstanding balance as part of the process of 
dealing with the estate of Mr M. I agree with Ms M that she should reasonably have been 
able to request information, like statements, from Link as the owner of the debt at the time of 
the late Mr Ms death. And I think it shouldve been reasonably straight forward for Link to 
request full statement evidence from N and send it to Ms M as requested.
Ive reviewed the statement evidence Link obtained from N and forwarded to Ms M. The 
statements begin in August 2019 and appear to be incomplete. There are pages missing 
from the statements Link forwarded. But more importantly, the statement evidence only goes 
back to August 2019 when there was already an outstanding balance of £532.43 and dont 
show how the balance built which is what Ms M specifically wanted to see.
I note that Links final response says that statements it forwarded were sufficient to show 
how the outstanding balance accrued but I disagree. The overwhelming majority of the 
outstanding balance had already been accrued before the period covered by the statements 
Link forwarded. Its not clear to me why Link didnt simply go back to N to request a full copy 
of the statements Ms M requested on the estate of Mr Ms behalf after she went back to it. 
Instead, Link raised a complaint and issued a final response.
Im pleased Ms M was able to obtain the statements she needed directly from N. But I think 
Link shouldve been able to obtain these on the estate of Mr Ms behalf as it was the owner 
of the debt at that time and had an existing relationship with it. And Im satisfied that by 
declining to go back to N to obtain the full statements (which were ultimately available) has 
caused an unreasonable level of inconvenience to the estate of Mr M. Before N wouldve 
released the late Mr Ms credit card statements Ms M wouldve had to provide evidence of 
his death and that she was entitled to represent the estate in her role of executor. Im
satisfied Ms M had already done that with Link.
In addition, a delay was caused as Ms M had to go back to N to obtain the statement 
evidence directly. So Im satisfied the way Link responded to Ms M is likely to have caused 
delays in dealing with the estate of Mr M.
Id like to explain that the estate of Mr M is the complainant in this case and Ms Ms role is 
that of representative whos bringing the complaint on its behalf. Our rules only allow me to 
award compensation to the complainant, not a representative. That means that whilst I 
acknowledge the situation has caused Ms M a reasonable level of distress and frustration, 
the rules dont allow me to make an award on that basis. But Im satisfied the process of 
dealing with the estate of Mr M was made more complicated by the way Link dealt with Ms 
Ms requests. I can award compensation for the inconvenience caused to an estate as the
complainant. And Im satisfied Link has unfairly inconvenienced the estate of Mr M. So 
based on the information Ive seen so far I intend to uphold the estate of Mr Ms complaint 
and direct Link to pay it £200 for the inconvenience caused.I invited both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Both Ms M and Link responded to confirm they 
were willing to proceed in line with the settlement I reached. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has supplied new information for me to consider and both have confirmed 
theyre willing to proceed, I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. I still think this complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold the estate of Mr Ms complaint and direct Link Financial 
Outsourcing Limited to pay it £200 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M on behalf of 
the estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman