DRN-3813724
The complaint
Miss G complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC rejected a claim she made 
for damage to her car.
What happened
Miss G bought a new car. She took out a minor damage protection insurance policy with 
Amtrust. The policy covered her for three years from December 2018.
A few weeks before the end of the policy term Miss G made a claim on the policy. She said 
shed washed her car for the first time in some months, having been prevented from doing 
so due to the pandemic. And she said that washing it had exposed several scratches and a 
dent. She explained that she didnt know how or when the damage had happened.
Amtrust declined Miss Gs claim. It said the damage was consistent with multiple individual 
incidents, having occurred over a period of time. It regarded that as wear and tear, which 
wasnt covered under Miss Gs policy.
But Miss G believes that the damage was caused by the car being hit without her knowing.  
She says all she wanted was for Amtrust to cover the repair of a few scratches and a dent. 
As it is, she had to pay for the repairs out of her own pocket, even though she had the policy. 
So she considers the policy to have been a waste of money. Shes says shed made no 
previous claims on the policy, and she spent a lot on the car and insurance. So she believes 
Amtrust should have agreed to repair some of the damage as a goodwill gesture. She 
doesnt believe it took account of the effect of pandemic or the fact that shes dyslexic.
One of our investigators considered Miss Gs claim, but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought that Amtrust had been reasonable in declining Miss Gs claim on the basis that it 
considered that the damage must have occurred over time, and wear and tear wasnt 
covered under the policy. And she didnt think its decision would have been different if 
Miss G hadnt had difficulty completing the forms.
Miss G disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and for similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at a copy of Miss Gs policy. It says it will cover the cost of repairs up to £1,000 
per claim In the event that you suffer damage during the period of cover to the bodywork of 
your vehicle, including wing mirrors and bumpers which falls within a 30cm diameter. 
Damage is defined in the policy as a sudden and unforeseen event resulting in accidental 
damage to Your Vehicle which is less than 30cm in diameter and which can be described as 
one of the following: Minor Dents, Scratches or Bumper Repairs.
Under the heading What is not covered are, among other things:
 Damage which is greater than 30cm in diameter and covering more than two body 
panels. 
 Where the damage has been accumulated over an extended period, which we deem 
to be wear and tear, corrosion or neglect.
Having read these sections of wording together, Im satisfied that the policy is designed to 
cover damage that occurs in a single event, and doesnt cover an area greater than 30cm. 
Miss G sent photos to Amtrust in support of her claim. Ive looked at those. Its true that none 
of the individual scratches exceeds 30cm. But the overall area of damage is greater than 
30cm in diameter. Amtrust has commented that there were 14 separate scratches across 
eight panels of the car. And I think it was reasonable to conclude that the size, location and 
direction of the damages suggests that they had occurred at different times  and 
accumulated over an extended period. 
Miss G says she struggled to complete Amtrusts claim form, as shes dyslexic. She says 
she explained this to Amtrust, but was reassured that if she filled in the form as best she 
could and sent photos of the damage, they would sort it out. And she says Amtrust cant 
ignore her claim just because shes dyslexic. 
I can understand why Miss G feels this way. But having looked at all the evidence, I dont 
think Amtrust has treated her unfairly, or that her dyslexia has affected the outcome of her 
claim. Im satisfied that Amtrusts decision was based purely on an assessment of the likely 
circumstances of the damage. And I dont think its acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope 
that it helps Miss G to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into their 
concerns.
I realise that my decision will come as a disappointment to Miss G. But I hope that my 
findings will help her to understand why Ive reached this decision.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman