DRN-2312901
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited mis-
sold them a whole of life policy. They say Sun Life doesnt have any information to confirm 
the policy was a priority for them. And when they took the whole of life policy out it stopped 
them from joining a company pension scheme for five years because they believed the 
whole of life policy would cover them financially in the future. 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint has been brought to us by their representative. But for ease of 
reference, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs W throughout this decision.
 
What happened
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ws complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
She felt the policy was suitable and that Mr and Mrs W were aware they had been sold a 
whole of life policy over the long term. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed and have asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint. They 
feel Sun Life doesnt have any evidence to support why the policy was suitable. They said 
they wanted a savings product, not life cover, because they had life cover through their 
employer and with their mortgage. So, they didnt think the policy was necessary. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I know Mr and Mr W 
feel strongly about this complaint, so Im sure my decision will come as a disappointment to 
them. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In order to uphold this complaint, I need to be satisfied the recommendation Sun Life made 
to Mr and Mrs W wasnt suitable for their needs and circumstances when the policy was sold 
in early 1992. 
The policy started in March 1992 with a monthly premium of £20 and provided a sum 
assured of £21,960 at the outset. Mr and Mrs W cancelled the policy in 2009 and received 
surrender proceeds of £3,303.82. Sun Life havent been able to provide any paperwork from 
the point of sale. However, it has provided a fact find from a conversation it had with 
Mr and Mrs W a few months later in July 1992 about a pension. 
Given that the policy was cancelled in 2009 I dont think its unreasonable that Sun Life no 
longer have the point of sale documentation. A long time has passed since the sale and the 
cancellation. So, its not unusual for the paperwork to no longer be available. 
At the time of the sale, Mr and Mrs W were married with two children. I note they had a 
death in service benefit and a joint mortgage cover at the time of the sale. However, at the 
point of sale, I dont believe its unreasonable for the death in service benefit to be 
considered temporary. It could be withdrawn by the employer at any time and would also 
cease on the employment ending. Which means Mr and Mrs W had cover for their mortgage 
at the time of the sale, but no guaranteed long-term protection for any lost income in the 
event of death or to meet any funeral costs. So, I dont think the recommendation to take out 
some additional life cover was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs W were also concerned about how much the adviser told them about the policy 
not solely being a savings plan. I agree that the specifics of the policy and any questions 
Mr and Mrs W had at the time shouldve been explained and answered. But I cant say for 
certain exactly what was discussed or how much detail the adviser went into. What I can see 
is that the terms and conditions of the policy provided to Mr and Mrs W explained how the 
policy worked and how it was reviewable in nature and provided life cover. And if they 
werent happy with the terms and conditions of the policy, they didnt have to go ahead with 
the sale.  
Mr and Mrs W said they wanted a savings plan in 1992. Ive noted from the fact find (from 
the sale of the pension) they said they wanted to save some money for their retirement and 
that they werent interested in any further life cover. I think this shows - on balance - they 
were happy with the whole of life policy they had been provided with a few months earlier, 
and that they still wanted a savings plan. If they felt this whole of life policy was a savings 
plan for their lifetime, as theyve mentioned in the complaint questionnaire and to this 
service, I dont think they wouldve been discussing savings a few short months later with 
Sun Life. 
Mr and Mrs W said they didnt join a company pension scheme due to the advice they 
received. Ive considered this carefully, but I dont think its likely the advice to take out the 
whole of life policy meant they didnt join the company pension scheme. I think the sale of 
the pension plan that took place a few months later in 1992 was the more likely reason for 
them not joining the company pension scheme at the time. 
So, Im not satisfied this policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs W. It provided additional lifelong 
protection, whilst having an investment element which generated a surrender value that was 
withdrawn in 2009. 
So, I dont think Sun Life has acted unreasonably here, and I wont be asking it to take any 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 Mark Dobson
Ombudsman