DRN-2385302
The complaint
Mr M is represented by his solicitor. His solicitor, on his behalf, says Craig Mitchell (CM) is 
responsible for his unsuitable investment, in February 2017, in UK Property Development 
Solutions (UKPDS) PLC bonds (the bonds); that CM breached its regulatory obligations in 
the matter; that he claims compensation for his financial loss and the cost of advice; and that 
he also claims recovery of any commission CM received.
CM disputes the complaint. Its principal says he never met Mr M, that he was never 
introduced to him, that he never communicated with him in any way and that CM did not 
advise his investment in the bonds. 
What happened
A copy of Mr Ms application for the bonds includes his application details and it is dated 10 
February 2017. In the section for his advisers details, and in a different handwriting, CMs 
principals name is given. CMs details (including its FCA number) as the Authorised 
Adviser and its principals signature (also dated 10 February 2017) also feature. CMs 
principal says he completed this section under the misunderstanding that he was verifying 
Mr Ms identity, upon request from a third-party firm, not to affirm that he had advised him.
Mr Ms evidence about his circumstances at the time of the investment, and about the 
circumstances leading to the investment, is mainly as follows:
He was in his 50s, employed and earned around £42,000 per year.
He had no previous experience of an investment like the bonds or other investments.
He had a low risk profile, given his circumstances and investment inexperience. 
He invested in the bonds because he was promised good returns on his investment.
He was introduced to UKPDS and the bonds by a third-party introducer. He also 
relied on CMs confirmation of suitability (in the advisers undertaking it gave in his 
application form) as assurance that the investment was good for him and that he 
should proceed with it. He would not have proceeded with it otherwise.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
He referred to regulatory guidance in the FCAs Handbook (in the Perimeter Guidance 
Manual (PERG)) on what constitutes advice. He considered that the contents of CMs 
signed advisers undertaking in Mr Ms application form suggests that CM was the adviser 
for the investment, even if what it gave was not regulated/authorised advice.
In terms of suitability, the investigator considered the bonds unsuitable for Mr M because 
they were particularly high-risk investments, they were mini bonds issued by companies too 
small or too new to raise capital through more traditional methods, being companies that 
also had a higher risk of failure. The investigator said the bonds were for a sophisticated 
investor and an investor prepared to take high risks, neither of which was Mr M (based on 
his profile at the time of the investment).
CMs principal disagreed with this outcome. He repeated his original position on the 
complaint. He added that the absence of advice related documentation shows a lack of merit 
in the complaint, and that CM was not authorised to give investment advice at the time of   
Mr Ms investment.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulated Activity
In the context of investments and in terms of the subject matters we can address in a 
complaint, the regulator defines our jurisdiction in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of 
its Handbook. It does so as follows:
DISP 2.3.1
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one of more of the following activities:
(1) regulated activities 
or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001, and 
also in the context of investments, regulated activities include advising on investments. 
Investment advice is therefore a regulated activity.
Investment advice is defined as:
[advice] given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor  on the 
merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)  
(i) buying selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a [relevant investment], or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
The PERG guidance that the investigator referred to says as follows:
PERG 8.28.2
(1) In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice.
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into account 
by them.
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the particular
context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information and is objectively
likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or sell.
(4) A key to the giving of advice is that the information:(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of that
information to the customers investment decision; or
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so that the
information will tend to influence the decision.
(5) Advice can still be regulated advice if the person receiving the advice:
(a) is free to follow or disregard the advice; or
(b) may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial adviser)
before making a final decision.
There was no direct engagement between Mr M and CM, because of the intermediary role 
that appears to have been played by the introducer, but there is evidence of the advisers 
undertaking CM gave in his application for the bonds. A key message in the guidance within 
PERG 8.28 is the need to establish that a value judgement, about the merits of an 
investment, was conveyed by the adviser to an investor, which influenced the latters 
investment decision. CMs signed advisers undertaking said  
I/we can confirm that I/we have complied with the suitability rules in COBS 9 of the Financial
Conduct Authority's Handbook of Rules and Guidance and have assessed this investment
as suitable for the above named client.
It is reasonable to conclude that the above undertaking conveyed, to Mr M, CMs value 
judgment that the investment in the bonds was suitable for him. It says as much, and it does 
so with express and specific reference to the regulators rule that defines suitability (that is, 
COBS 9). 
There is therefore a basis for his claim that the undertaking induced his investment, and that 
he would not have invested otherwise. It would have been reasonable for him to believe the 
investment was suitable, with CMs clear undertaking that it was. Overall, I accept Mr M s 
evidence that the undertaking influenced his decision to proceed with the investment. This 
meets the guidances reference to advice influencing the customers investment (or buy or 
sell) decision. Confirmation of independent financial advice was a pre-requisite to investing 
in the bonds, hence the need for the authorised adviser undertaking within the application 
form. CM gave that undertaking and its undertaking made Mr M s investment possible. 
The contents of the undertaking also make it implausible that CMs principal misunderstood 
its purpose. He says he never met or engaged with Mr M, so it begs the question why he 
would verify his identity  the identity of someone he says he never knew, met or spoke to  
as he says he believed he was doing. Furthermore, and importantly, nothing in the 
undertakings contents relates to verifying Mr Ms identity. As the guidance above says, 
advice includes any communication with the customer. I consider that CMs provision of its 
undertaking to Mr M amounted to a communication of the undertaking  and of the message 
of suitability within it  to him.
For the reasons given above, I consider that CM holds responsibility for advising Mr M s 
investment in the bonds and for conveying the message to him that they were suitable. If CM 
did not give such advice directly to him, its undertaking confirms that it assessed suitability of 
the bonds and the same undertaking communicated the outcome of its assessment to him. If 
CM says it conducted no such assessment then the implications that follow are that its 
undertaking was false, that such false undertaking was relied upon by Mr M, and that CM 
holds responsibility for misleading his investment in the bond  and it did so by assuring him 
it had assessed suitability when it had not.CMs references to absent advice documentation and to lacking authority to advise on 
investments in 2017 does not alter the above conclusions. I repeat, there is documentation 
of its advisers undertaking that says it assessed suitability of the bonds for Mr M. If that was 
done at a time when CM did not have the regulators authority to give investment advice, 
then that is a matter between it and the regulator. The lack of such authority does not negate 
evidence that, as a matter of fact, CM stood as adviser for Mr M s investment.
Eligible Complainant
A complainant must be eligible to complain. Otherwise this service cannot consider the 
relevant complaint. The regulators rules DISP rules for an eligible complainant include the 
following:
An eligible complainant must be a consumer, a micro-enterprise, a charity, a trustee 
of a trust, a small business or a guarantor. [DISP 2.7.3 R] 
An eligible complainant must also show that the complaint comes from a relationship 
covered by the rules. [my emphasis] [DISP 2.7.6 R]
consumer
This is the only category under DISP 2.7.3 R to consider for Mr M  given that he is not a 
micro enterprise, a charity, a trustee of a trust, a small business or a guarantor. Guidance 
from the rules says a consumer is any natural person acting for purposes outside his [or her] 
trade, business or profession. Mr M acted as an individual in this case. I have not seen 
evidence to suggest that he was/is a professional in investments or that he conducted such 
a business or trade. His role in the complaint appears to have been for purposes outside his 
trade, business or profession, so he is a consumer.
relationship
The rules cover a number of relationships. In terms of investments, the relationship between 
a customer and a business is one. Guidance from the rules says the word customer should 
be given its natural meaning  that is, a person who buys goods and/or services from a 
business. 
In Mr Ms case the service given to him by CM is confirmed in the undertaking that CM gave 
in his bond application form. That undertaking was required for the application and it served 
the purpose of assuring Mr M that the investment had been assessed suitable for him. 
There is no evidence of payment to CM  payment being what can be expected where 
goods or services are bought from a business. Nevertheless, I do not consider that this 
alone automatically means he was not a customer. 
CM was a commercial going concern in the business of providing its services in order to 
make money. Other firms share the same basic characteristic. I have not seen evidence that 
its undertaking in Mr Ms case was given in the spirit of benevolence  which appears to be 
even more unlikely given that neither party knew the other  so the implication that follows is 
that CM would have received, probably indirectly, a commercial reward for that undertaking. 
It does not appear to have had a reason not to. This service has received a number of 
complaints about CM and about the same undertaking it gave to Mr M and to other/different 
investors in the UKPDS bonds. I consider it implausible that it would have given all those 
undertakings  to unknown people, as its principal has maintained  without receiving a 
commercial reward.For the above reasons, I consider that Mr M was a consumer, was CMs customer and is an 
eligible complainant.
Suitability of Mr Ms investment
As mentioned above, this service has addressed other complaints about CM and its 
undertaking that the UKPDS bonds were suitable for other investors. Evidence about the 
bonds has been broadly consistent. They had a maturity term of 12 months (extendable to 
18 months) and they were used by UKPDS to raise capital which it then issued as loans to 
third-party firms for the business of property acquisition, development and sale. It appears 
that the proceeds of the property sales were to be used to service the loans, which then 
provided funds to be used in paying the coupons on the bonds (and to redeem the bonds). 
This meant there were a number of layers of risk involved. The bond issuer (UKPDS) was 
not the end user of the capital raised and it does not appear to have had any control over the 
third-party end users; so due diligence on UKPDS and on the end users would have been 
important. There is no evidence of such due diligence being conducted by CM for Mr Ms 
investment. 
Furthermore, it is commonly considered that property-based investments can have 
associated high risks in terms of determining a reliable value of the underlying assets and in 
terms of liquidity of the underlying assets. Such risks were potentially heightened in the 
context of the relatively short 12 to 18 months term for the bonds and in the context of the 
bonds brochures confirmation that the end users operations were based on using an  
advanced computer search algorithm  to identify suitable development sites  which 
suggests investment decisions not based on due care, skill and analysis by experienced 
managers.
I have not seen evidence that Mr M was a high-risk investor with investment experience that 
made it possible for him to understand the risks involved in the bonds. To the contrary, his 
evidence  which, in the main, I have not been given a reason(s) to doubt  is that he had a 
low risk profile and that he was inexperienced in investments. This does not describe an 
investor seeking a high-risk and sophisticated investment.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the bonds were 
suitable for Mr M; and I also find that CM had no basis to give the undertaking  which it 
gave  that they were.
Putting things right
fair compensation
Fair compensation will be to put Mr M as close as I can to the position he would probably 
now be in if he had not made the unsuitable investment in the UKPDS bonds. I take the view 
that he would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done differently but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair given available 
information, as summarised above, of his profile at the time. The redress set out below uses 
a slightly different benchmark comparison, from that proposed by the investigator. Mr Ms 
solicitor was given prior notice of this change and time to comment. No comment appears to 
have been made in response.
As stated above, there is no evidence of payment to CM. Therefore, there is no basis on 
which to make findings on (or an award for) Mr Ms claim for a recovery of commission. 
Available evidence also suggests he made no adviser fee payment to CM, so I also make no 
finding on (or award for) his claim for cost of advice.what must CM do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, CM must:
Compare the performance of his bond investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay him compensation in the amount of the difference between the fair 
value and the actual value of the investment. However, if the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation for financial loss is payable. 
Pay him interest, if set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Provide him with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
Investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Mr M s 
UKPDS 
bondsStill existsthe Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement Not applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid the actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is 
provided Mr M agrees to CM taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If that is not 
possible then CM may request an undertaking from Mr M that he repays to CM any amount 
he may receive from the investment in future. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, CM should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if CM totals all of those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M was inexperienced in investments and had a low risk profile, which  in the 
absence of evidence to the contrary  suggests he did not wish to put his capital at 
risk.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. I consider that the above benchmark matches the investment profile Mr M had in 
2017, and that its use in calculating compensation for him would reasonably put him 
into a position that broadly reflects the sort of return he could have obtained from a 
suitable investment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Craig Mitchell to pay him 
compensation as set out above, and to provide him with a calculation of the compensation in 
a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman