DRN-2234765
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society is chasing him for payment on two buy-to-
let (BTL) mortgage accounts, originally taken out with Dunfermline Building Society but now 
held by Nationwide. I will refer to Nationwide throughout, for the sake of clarity. 
Mr M says his liability for these accounts ceased in 2014 when he was made bankrupt. Mr M 
is also unhappy about Nationwides response to his Data Subject Access Request (DSAR).
Mr Ms trustee in bankruptcy, Mr P, has consented to this complaint being brought but has 
taken no other part in it. I have referred to Mr P throughout in relation to all references to the 
trustee in bankruptcy.
What happened
In January 2008 Mr M took out mortgages with Dunfermline Building Society to enable him 
to purchase two BTL properties. The mortgages were over a term of ten years and the terms 
have now expired. 
In February 2014 Mr M was made bankrupt, and was discharged from bankruptcy on 
27 February 2015. In April 2016 his Mr P disclaimed (abandoned) any claim over the BTL 
properties. Mr P told Mr M that this meant he (Mr M) no longer had any interest in the 
properties.
In 2009 it appears Nationwide began possession proceedings and served notice of this on 
the tenant of one of Mr Ms properties. However, Nationwide didnt take possession and 
instead I note that the letting agents began paying the rent direct to Nationwide from 2009 
onwards. 
The letting agents have confirmed that when asked to pay the rent to Nationwide, they tried 
to contact Mr M over a period of several months but were unable to get hold of him. As a 
result, the agents paid the rent to Nationwide. This continued until February 2017. At that 
point the tenants stopped paying rent. The letting agents have confirmed they were unaware 
of any arrears of ground rent, service charges, council tax or utilities.
Nationwide didnt know about Mr Ms bankruptcy until June 2017. In October 2018 
Nationwide explained to Mr M that, as this was a secured debt, it wasnt written off by his 
bankruptcy. By this time the mortgage terms had ended and the full amounts (approximately 
£180,000 on each property) were payable in full. Mr M asked for an extension of time or 
further borrowing so he could decorate the properties to rent out or sell. Nationwide agreed 
to a short-term extension so he could sell the properties. Mr M promised to repay both 
mortgages in the period January-March 2019. They have not yet been repaid.
From March 2018 onwards the freeholder was contacting Nationwide about unpaid service 
charges and the threat of legal action. I am told the freeholder had also written to Mr M about 
this. Nationwide wrote to Mr M (at both the secured addresses and his current home 
address) about the unpaid ground rent and service charges but had no response from him. 
Nationwide made the payments in order to prevent legal action by the freeholders for 
forfeiture of the leases, and added the cost of this to the mortgages. Nationwide also wrote 
to Mr M about arrears on the accounts and repayment of the outstanding balances.
In September 2019 Mr M complained to Nationwide. He was surprised to see that the 
properties were still showing on his credit file. He said that, as far as he was concerned, he 
was no longer responsible for the mortgages. Mr M says Nationwide had no right to harass 
him about payment of these mortgages because, once he was made bankrupt, he was no 
longer liable for them. 
Mr M wanted Nationwide to compensate him for the costs hed incurred in relation to a 
survey fee (£1,000) preparing the properties for sale (£7,000), and reimburse him for the 
service charges Nationwide had paid (£6,228). Mr M also wanted Nationwide to compensate 
him for outstanding council taxes (£13,000) and a total of £104,000 for loss of rental income. 
Mr M said that he believed he was well within his rights to look to Nationwide for this.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. In two final response letters Nationwide explained 
that it had was entitled to contact Mr M about the unpaid ground rent and service charges. 
Nationwide also said it was considering legal action to repossess the properties. (I note that 
as a result of the pandemic, as well as Mr Ms complaint to us, no action has yet been 
commenced.)
Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He is adamant that he is no longer 
responsible for the mortgages and that Nationwide should compensate him for his losses. 
Mr M also complained that Nationwide didnt provide all the information he requested in a 
DSAR.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She was satisfied 
Nationwide had acted reasonably in pursuing Mr M for the outstanding arrears and the 
service charges. The investigator wasnt able to comment on what Mr P might have told 
Mr M about what assets were, or werent, included in his bankruptcy. As far as the DSAR 
was concerned, if Mr M wasnt happy with Nationwides response, he could refer this to the 
Information Commissioner.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators findings. He said the lettings agents had told him the 
properties had been repossessed by Nationwide in 2009. Mr M also said hed had no 
correspondence from Nationwide because his own home had been repossessed in 2009 
and this was the only address Nationwide had for him.
Nationwide confirmed the properties had not been repossessed.
As the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that during the course of administering Mr Ms bankrupt estate, Mr P disclaimed the 
two BTL properties. Generally this happens when the properties are, due to the outstanding 
mortgages and the value of the properties, considered liabilities rather than assets  and so 
there is no benefit to the trustee in bankruptcy in taking any steps to realise those assets. 
This doesnt mean that the mortgages ceased to exist. I note Mr M was told by Mr P that he 
was no longer liable for the mortgages, but that isnt, in my opinion, correct. Nationwide still 
had security over the properties and the mortgages had not been cancelled. If Mr M was told by Mr P that the mortgages had been cancelled, thats something hell need to take up with 
Mr P. In the jurisdiction in which Mr M was made bankrupt, if the trustee does not realise any 
equity in the property or otherwise deal with it within a certain period (I believe two years and 
three months) from the date of the bankruptcy, then the property reverts back to Mr M. (I 
note here that the properties are in a different jurisdiction from where Mr M was made 
bankrupt, but nothing turns on this.)
I note the rent had been paid direct to Nationwide since 2009. Although I can see that 
Nationwide had considered repossessing at least one of the properties in 2009, it didnt go 
ahead with that. Instead, it had the rent paid to it direct by the letting agents. By 2009 the 
property market had declined due to the financial crash of 2008, and I surmise that 
Nationwide knew it would have made a loss if the properties had been sold then. 
I can see from emails between Mr M and the agents in 2019 that Mr M was pressing the 
agents to change what theyd said in their correspondence and to say instead that the 
properties had been repossessed in 2009. The agents refused to change their 
correspondence to say this, but simply reiterated that theyd been given instructions to pay 
the rent to Nationwide. I note that, as a result of the agents refusing to say that the 
properties had been repossessed, Mr M withdrew his selling instructions from the agents 
and lost a potential purchase of one of the properties.
Because Nationwide was entitled to collect the rent, Im satisfied it is under no obligation to 
reimburse Mr M for this, nor for any arrears of ground rent, service charges or fees it has 
also had to pay.
Given the above, Im satisfied that the mortgages were not cancelled and the properties 
werent repossessed. Because Mr P didnt take any steps to realise the assets, the 
properties reverted to Mr M. This means Mr M is liable for mortgage arrears, ground rent and 
service charges. Im satisfied Nationwide is entitled to contact him about these. I appreciate 
Mr M considers this to be intrusive, particularly as he doesnt think he should be liable for the 
mortgages. But for the reasons given above, Im satisfied that Mr M is responsible for 
payment of the mortgages. 
The ten-year mortgage terms have come to an end and the account balances are repayable 
in full. I am told by Mr M that he has taken steps (redecoration and refurbishment) to prepare 
the properties for sale, but I dont know if he has yet put them back on the market. If Mr M 
wishes to retain the properties he will need to think about how to repay the mortgages. Mr M 
might want to speak to a financial adviser about this.
Mr M also says that in the response to his DSAR Nationwide didnt include documents telling 
the letting agents that the properties had been repossessed. As Ive explained above, 
theyve not been repossessed. But if Mr M is still unhappy about Nationwides response to 
his DSAR, hell need to refer this to the Information Commissioner.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. But after reviewing all the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that the properties havent been repossessed and that, as a result, 
Mr M remains liable for the mortgage debts, including unpaid ground rent, service charges 
and any associated fees which Nationwide has had to pay.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman