DRN-3161696
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about errors made by London and Country Mortgages Ltd with their 
re-mortgage application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage product was nearing its expiry date. Mr and Mrs M wanted to re-
mortgage and raise additional funds for a holiday property. L&C made a mortgage 
application on their behalf to a new lender. Mr and Mrs M were confident the re-mortgage 
would go ahead and bought the holiday property from savings, which they intended to 
replenish with the additional borrowing. 
L&C failed to respond when the lender requested further information and the lender closed 
the application. The application had to be re-submitted, at some inconvenience to Mr and 
Mrs M. The lender then asked for evidence of Mr Ms income which he didnt have available. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt think the re-mortgage would complete in time to avoid going onto their 
lenders standard variable rate (SVR). They decided to take out a new product with their 
existing lender and apply later for additional borrowing. They say L&C told them their 
existing lender had agreed to this, and on this basis they took out a two year fixed rate 
product. But when Mr and Mrs M contacted their lender it said it hadnt agreed to this. 
Mr and Mrs M say while L&C accepts it made errors it hasnt compensated them for the 
impact of this. They ask that it arranges the additional borrowing with their existing lender or 
pays their costs of re-mortgaging with a new lender. 
Our investigator said it was likely that the new lender would have asked for evidence of 
Mr Ms income if the first application had progressed. So Mr and Mrs M would have been in 
the same position with the lender asking for evidence that they couldnt provide. Most likely 
theyd have stayed with their existing lender even if there hadnt been a problem with their 
first application. And L&C was clear there was no guarantee that their existing lender would 
offer additional borrowing. 
Our investigator said the £300 offered by L&C was fair compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by it not progressing Mr and Mrs Ms first re-mortgage application.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They said Mr Ms income was guaranteed under public sector 
contracts. They didnt accept the investigators assumptions about what the new lender 
would have asked for if the first application had proceeded. Mrs M said theyd had an offer 
for additional borrowing from their existing lender in May 2021 but at a higher interest rate 
than their main mortgage account. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L&C made the first mortgage application on behalf of Mr and Mrs M in August 2020. The 
application was cancelled by the lender because L&C didnt respond to its requests for 
information. L&C submitted a new application in early December 2020. The lender asked for 
evidence from HMRC for the tax year ended 2020, which Mr M couldnt provide at that time. 
The lender wasnt satisfied with a letter from Mr Ms accountant. 
L&C accepts it made an error when it didnt progress Mr and Mrs Ms first mortgage 
application. It offered compensation of £300. Mr and Mrs M say this doesnt take account of 
the consequences to them of the error. They thought the lending had been approved and 
bought a holiday property. They say because L&C failed to complete the first mortgage 
application they were unable to replenish their savings. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the assumptions made by our investigator  in particular that 
the new lender would have asked for the same evidence about Mr Ms income if their first 
application had progressed. I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to carry out stringent affordability checks 
before offering a mortgage. While the new lender approved a mortgage in principle, this 
wasnt an offer to lend. Any offer to lend is subject to the full application process and the 
lenders underwriting and affordability checks. 
During the second application the lender raised queries about Mr Ms income as his bank 
statements suggested this was lower than stated in the application and lower than his 
income in his latest accounts. It also queried his tax calculation and documents submitted to 
HMRC. Mr and Mrs M say this would have been resolved once HMRC had processed 
Mr Ms returns, but HMRC had a back log due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
While its possible the lender wouldnt have asked about these matters had the first 
application progressed, I think thats unlikely. As I said, lenders have to carry out stringent 
affordability checks. I think the lender would have asked for evidence of Mr Ms income  in 
fact it requested his business bank statements before the first application was closed. I think 
its more likely than not that the lender would have raised similar queries about Mr Ms 
income if the first application had progressed.
I do understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration, but I think theyd have been in the same position 
even if L&C hadnt made an error that meant the first application was closed. 
Mr and Mrs M had to decide whether to take out a new product with their existing lender or 
go onto its standard variable rate while they applied elsewhere. I can understand that they 
wanted to know if their existing lender would offer additional borrowing before making this 
decision. Based on the available evidence I dont agree that L&C misled Mr and Mrs M that 
their existing lender had agreed to offer additional lending. It asked their lender if it needed 
the same evidence from HMRC as the new lender had required (it did) and if it would be 
happy about the use of funds (it was). I dont think it was unfair for L&C to ask the lender for 
clarification about how it would deal with those particular issues, and pass this information to 
Mr and Mrs M. I havent seen evidence that it told Mr and Mrs M their lender had agreed to 
offer them additional borrowing. It told Mr and Mrs M theyd have to talk to their lender 
directly about this.Mr and Mrs Ms existing lender has offered them additional borrowing, but this isnt on the 
same terms as their main mortgage. Their lender said it only offers additional borrowing on 
the same terms if its taken out at the same time as a new product for the main mortgage. 
Again, I dont think Mr and Mrs M would be in a better position if L&C hadnt made an error. 
They couldnt take out additional borrowing when they took out the new product because the 
income evidence from HMRC wasnt available at that time. Mr and Mrs M said at the time 
that their priority was not to go onto the SVR, so I dont think theyd have wanted to wait until 
the evidence was available.
Mrs M explained why there appeared to be discrepancies with Mr Ms income and I do 
understand their frustration about this. Im sorry that their application to re-mortgage didnt 
proceed as planned. I dont think L&C is responsible for their decision to buy a holiday 
property before having a mortgage offer. But I do think its right that L&C pays compensation 
for the inconvenience and upset caused to Mr and Mrs M by them having to re-submit their 
mortgage application, which required them to provide up to date information and documents. 
I think £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for this inconvenience. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require L&C to pay Mr and Mrs Ms costs if they re-
mortgage during their product term, or pay further compensation. Ultimately, I dont think Mr 
and Mrs M would be in a different position if L&C hadnt made an error.
My final decision
My decision is that London and Country Mortgages Ltd should pay £300 to Mr and Mrs M as 
it offered to do, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman