DRN-4312175
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly 
gave her a credit card that she couldnt afford to repay. Mrs H also complains that credit limit 
increases to the card were made on several occasions with no checks carried out on her 
financial situation.
What happened
Mrs H successfully applied for a credit card with Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank (Tesco Bank) in 2003. Tesco Bank gave Mrs H a credit limit of £6,500 and 
subsequently increased this to £7,800 in August 2004, to £9,800 in May 2014, to £12,800 in 
October 2017 and to £15,800 in October 2019.
In 2022, Mrs H complained to Tesco Bank saying theyd irresponsibly lent to her in giving her 
the credit card and in increasing the credit limit on each occasion. Tesco Bank didnt uphold 
the complaint. They said theyd only considered the last two limit increases as Mrs H hadnt 
complained about the lending decisions in 2003, 2004 and 2014 in time. And Tesco Bank 
didnt agree that theyd lent irresponsibly when they increased the limit in 2017 and 2019.
Mrs H didnt agree and referred the matter to us. Our of our ombudsmen sent a decision in 
June 2023 saying that we couldnt consider Mrs Hs complaint about the lending decisions 
Tesco Bank had made when the card was opened, and when they increased the limits in 
2004 and 2014, because Mrs H hadnt made her complaint about this in time. 
One of our investigators then considered Tesco Banks decision to increase the credit limit in 
2017 and 2019. She felt their checks to assess whether Mrs H could repay the agreement 
sustainably were reasonable and proportionate. And she felt that Tesco Bank had made a 
fair lending decision based on that at the time. 
Our investigator though felt Tesco Bank should have carried out further checks in 2019 due 
to the increased indebtedness Mrs H had compared to the income Tesco Bank had verified. 
And she felt that had Tesco Bank carried out further checks, they would have seen that    
Mrs H didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably repay the increased access to 
credit. So, she recommended that Tesco Bank rework Mrs Hs credit card account so that 
they didnt hold her liable for any fees, interest, charges or insurances applied to balances 
over the credit limit of £12,800. And she gave some further recommendations if the rework 
resulted in any overpayment made by Mrs H or if the balance still exceeded £12,800.
Mrs H replied saying that she wanted us to look at the lending decisions from 2003, 2004 
and 2014. Tesco Bank didnt reply. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The referral to me as the deciding ombudsman should be based on the specific objections to 
our investigators view. However, neither Mrs H nor Tesco Bank have said why they 
disagree with the investigators view on the lending decisions of 2017 and 2019. Mrs H isnt 
happy that we have said the preceding lending decisions were made out of time and wants 
us to consider these. Our ability to consider these though was the subject of the 
ombudsmans decision in June 2023. I dont consider it appropriate to now revisit this as a 
result. 
So, seeing as neither party has said why our investigators view wasnt reasonable, in 
relation to the specific considerations of the lending decisions in 2017 and 2019, I have no 
objections to consider in relation to these. And as such, I see no reason to depart from what 
was recommended. 
Putting things right
Tesco Bank should rework Mrs Hs credit card ensuring that she isnt liable for any charges, 
fees, interest or insurances on balances above £12,800. To do so, I have set out what they 
need to do in the section below.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank to:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £12,800.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs H along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco Bank should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after October 2019 regarding this account from Mrs Hs credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £12,800, Tesco Bank 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs H for the remaining amount. 
Once Mrs H has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after October 2019 in relation to the account should be removed from their credit file. 
If Tesco Bank has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the debt 
from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried out 
promptly. 
I note that Tesco Bank were considering Mrs Hs request to write off the outstanding debt on 
the credit card. If they have now done so, that will in my view represent a fair outcome and 
Tesco Bank need not carry out the direction Ive set out above. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank to 
deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax 
has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an 
outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman