DRN-2207103
The complaint
Mr K complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, unfairly closed his accounts and 
registered a marker when it shouldnt have on the national fraud database operated by the 
Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS). He wants the CIFAS marker removed.
What happened
Mr K held several accounts with Halifax and had been a customer for some time. In 
February 2019 Halifax blocked his access to the accounts. It had been contacted by a third-
party bank, which said three deposits that credited Mr Ks cash card account over several 
days had been reported as fraudulent.
Halifax contacted Mr K to discuss the payments. Halifaxs records state Mr K said the 
payments were from a friend who owed him money. Following a review, Halifax decided to 
close Mr Ks accounts, issuing a notice to close it sent to his residential address. 
Most of Mr Ks accounts closed in April 2019. But as Mr K held a substantial overdraft on 
one of his accounts, it remained open until the outstanding balance was paid off. Daily 
overdraft charges continued to accrue on the account, which Halifax later refunded. In 
August 2019 Halifax decided to write off the overdraft debt and not report the account as in 
default.
During this time Mr K made several complaints about Halifaxs actions, including its decision 
to close the accounts and to report a CIFAS marker. Halifax responded saying it had closed 
the accounts in line with the accounts terms, and it had done what it needed to record a 
CIFAS marker.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr K referred his complaint to our service. An investigator 
considered his complaint but decided it shouldnt be upheld. In summary they found:
- Halifax needed to have sufficient and robust enough evidence to meet the standard 
of evidence CIFAS require to register a marker. Considering all the evidence 
available, Halifax had met that standard.
- Mr K says he let his brother use his cash card regularly over two years to purchase 
things for Mr Ks business. His account history, however, doesnt demonstrate this - 
most of the transactions  suggest Mr K used the card himself.
- Mr K had been inconsistent when explaining what he understood the payments to be. 
Hed told Halifax the funds were owed to him from his brothers friend. He then said it 
was money owed to his brothers friend. And he subsequently told our service the 
payments represented money owed to his brothers friend, which his brother 
withdrew to celebrate his friends birthday.
- The payments were made on three separate days and withdrawn over several days. 
If this was money owed to his brothers friend, it was more likely his friend would ask 
for the funds to be paid into their own account. And it was more likely there would be 
one singular payment and withdrawal given the purpose of the payments. 
- The individual who raised the fraud hadnt retracted the claim. The messages sent 
between Mr K and his brother did not indicate the person had been contacted or that 
a fraud hadnt been committed. 
- Halifax could terminate its relationship with Mr K irrespective of the length of time 
hed been a customer. It had followed the terms of the account correctly. And it had 
acted within the discretion it was afforded.
Mr K disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. He says the mistake was his 
brothers and not his, and his brother is willing to write a statement. The marker will cause 
his business problems and he is prepared to pursue this matter legally to clear his name. He 
is willing to pay the money back.
Mr K has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman on this matter, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint for broadly similar reasons to those reached by 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
CIFAS Marker
Halifax needed to meet the evidential threshold CIFAS requires of its members in order for it 
to register the marker. But Halifax isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr K 
was involved in a fraud. Indeed, a criminal investigation and prosecution is a matter for the 
police and crown prosecution service to respectively conduct.
Nonetheless, reporting a CIFAS marker requires Halifax to have sufficient and robust 
information to confidently report the conduct of Mr K to the police, although it doesnt need to 
actually report him. This means it  needs to have more than a mere suspicion to register a 
marker.
Mr K disputes being implicated or having knowledge of anything untoward in relation to the 
payments. And it is not for me to make a finding that he is or isnt guilty of a crime; indeed, 
its possible he is innocent of any wrongdoing. Instead, what I must consider is Halifaxs 
actions, and whether it met the evidential threshold CIFAS requires.
I find that Halifax did meet the evidential threshold for the following reasons. - Mr K has been inconsistent in regard to what he said the payments were for when 
answering Halifaxs questions and the questions our service has asked. As a result, 
Im not persuaded the payments were made because his brother only had Mr Ks 
card at the time. And neither do I find the evidence points to Mr K not knowing the 
payments werent going to be made.  If Mr K thought the payments were made in 
relation to his brothers friend or friend of a friend, I dont see why he first said it was 
money he was owed. I find this telling.
- The payments were made over three days, which doesnt suggest an immediate 
need to transfer funds there and then to celebrate a birthday. Neither does it explain 
why his brother or his brothers friend didnt have their own cards to withdraw the 
funds if they went out to celebrate. I dont find Mr Ks explanation plausible, and I 
note he now says his brother was doing a favour for a friend of a friend, which is 
again a different explanation.
- Mr K says he allowed his brother to regularly use his card to make purchases for Mr 
Ks business, which he recognises he shouldnt have done. But on reviewing the 
account history, Im not persuaded Mr Ks brother did use the account to the extent 
Mr K suggests. Although I see some potential transactions related to building 
supplies, most of the transactions on the account are transfers between Mr Ks other 
accounts or payments to third parties or cash withdrawals. Neither is it clear that Mr 
K didnt make the withdrawals
- Mr K sent copies of messages he says show exchanges with his brother to support 
his position. The messages appear to show he blames his brother for what 
happened, but I dont find they support his overall version of events. Neither can I 
see they are contemporaneous to when the payments took place. So, I dont find 
them persuasive.
- I dont find that Halifax ought to have known the payments were fraudulent when they 
were paid or that they shouldve checked them before allowing the funds to be 
withdrawn. There was nothing particularly strange or unusual about them. And I dont 
find that this is a reason for Halifax to remove the CIFAS marker.
Closure of accounts
Halifax has the discretion to close an account. Its decision isnt something Im minded to 
interfere with providing the reasons for closing the accounts were legitimate. This is similar 
to the freedom Mr K had to terminate his relationship with Halifax if he wanted to.
I see Halifax provided correct notice under the respective account terms, and most of the 
accounts closed on the notice expiring, barring the account which had a large overdraft. I 
understand Mr K wanted to keep his accounts open, but ultimately, I dont think Halifax 
unreasonably applied the accounts terms. I find the notice period it gave was long enough 
for Mr K to find alternative account providers.
Im also satisfied Halifaxs reasons for wanting to terminate its relationship with Mr K were 
legitimate, particularly given its concerns over what had happened on his cash card account 
and that Mr K says he let his brother use his account.
Mr K wanted to agree a way forward to repay his overdraft balance after Halifax decided to 
call the facility in to close the account. He was also unhappy that overdraft fees continued to be charged. But Halifax eventually wrote off the overdraft debt and decided not to report the 
account as in default to credit referencing agencies. Had I upheld this part of Mr Ks 
complaint, this would likely have been the resolution I wouldve directed Halifax to make. So, 
I dont find it necessary to make a finding on this point now.
I note, however, that Halifaxs contact notes from November 2018 suggest Mr K told them he 
wasnt in financial difficulty and had a large amount of money in assets. If this was the case, 
it may not have been unreasonable for Halifax to have refused to enter into a repayment 
plan or agree a loan. The overdraft was always a revocable facility.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman