DRN-4291880
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Ltd (RLM) didnt make him 
aware of the Open Market Option (OMO) or enhanced annuities when he bought two 
annuities in 2007.
Mr L was represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC), which has 
now ceased trading. But Ill only reference him in my decision. 
What happened
Mr L had two pension policies with RLM. He told RLM he wanted to use the policies benefits 
to buy annuities. RLM told Mr L it didnt offer annuity policies. But that it could facilitate the 
purchase of annuities with another business, who Ill refer to as business P.
After Mr L had taken a 25% tax-free cash lump sum from each of his pension policies, he 
used the remainder to purchase two annuities with business P. He signed completed annuity 
income payment forms on 4 June 2007. Both were purchased on a non-advised basis.
RLM told Mr L that his two annuities had been set up. And the first payments under each of 
the annuities were made to Mr L on 11 June 2007. 
Mr L said he didnt remember being provided with information about the OMO. He also 
considered that he hadnt received adequate advice about the importance of shopping 
around the open market. Mr L also felt that RLM had failed to make reasonable enquiries 
about his lifestyle habits or health status. And that it didnt tell him about the possible 
eligibility for enhanced annuity policies. So he complained to RLM through his CMC.
To put things right, Mr L wanted a refund of the income he hadnt been paid in the years 
since he bought the annuities, plus 8% annual interest. And future annuity payments that 
reflected the position he felt he shouldve been in.
RLM said it received a forwarded complaint on behalf of Mr L on 23 July 2021. But that as 
his CMC hadnt submitted a letter of authority (LOA) on Mr Ls behalf, it asked for one to be 
completed while its complaint investigations proceeded. It said it prepared a draft final 
response to the complaint on 24 September 2021, but then noted that Mr L had gone away 
from the address it had on its records. As no new address had been provided by the CMC, 
RLM said it hadnt sent the draft final response letter. And that it closed the complaint on 24 
September 2021, having never received the requested LOA.
RLM said it received a further letter of complaint on 10 November 2021, again with no LOA 
on Mr Ls behalf. So it said it replied to say it still couldnt issue a response without an LOA. 
It said it still hadnt received one. 
Mr L brought his complaint to this service in September 2022. 
RLM didnt give this service permission to investigate the matter as it felt it had been brought 
more than six months after it produced its final response.
Our investigator issued a jurisdiction view in which he felt that this service could consider the 
merits of the complaint. He felt that the complaint hadnt been brought to this service more 
than six months after RLM had sent Mr L its final response letter, as it hadnt yet sent him 
one. 
Our investigator issued his view on the merits of the complaint in February 2023. He felt that 
although RLM had made Mr L aware of the OMO, it hadnt made him aware of enhanced 
annuities. He felt Mr L wouldve qualified for an enhanced annuity at the time. And that he 
wouldve chosen to buy one if hed known. He felt that RLM should put Mr L back to the 
position he wouldve been in, had he been provided with the full information the relevant 
regulatory rules or guidance at the time required. He also felt RLM should pay Mr L £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience itd caused him. 
Our investigator issued a further jurisdiction view in July 2023 in which he explained why he 
felt the complaint had also been brought to us within the six and three time limits. Our 
investigator felt that Mr L had only first thought there might be an issue when he heard an 
advert about mis-sold pensions from the representatives who brought his complaint.
RLM accepted our investigators view on the jurisdiction of this complaint. But didnt agree 
with his view on its merits. It made the following points:
The annuities were both purchased on a non-advised basis. No financial advice was 
ever provided to Mr L. 
It had told Mr L that he might have the chance of receiving a higher income. It 
referred to documents it had sent Mr L where the OMO was referenced.  
It said it always enclosed the FSA factsheet: Your Pension: Its time to choose. And 
that this specifically referenced enhanced annuities. And although it couldnt 
evidence that this had been included in Mr Ls retirement pack, it said it was always a 
given that this was to be enclosed as part of the pack.
It said business P only ever offered RLM customers guaranteed annuities - no 
enhanced annuity was ever available under this arrangement. So if Mr L had ever 
mentioned any current illness or lifestyle that might suggest he would benefit from an 
enhanced annuity, it wouldve made clear to Mr L that he should seek independent 
financial advice.
RLM didnt agree with our investigators interpretation of the regulatory requirements 
at the time of the sale. It said that although hed said that it had to explain to 
customers from March 2007 that they might receive a higher income through 
enhanced or impaired life annuities, there was no requirement to issue anything on 
enhanced annuities when the annuities had been set up. It also provided evidence 
which showed that the requirements to do so came in after the annuities had been 
set up. 
It said that it had always made Mr Ls OMO clear. And it had also recommended 
seeking independent financial advice. It noted that the retirement packs itd issued to 
Mr L on 31 May 2007 had stated the following:
Neither [RLM] nor [business P] can advise you which option best suits your individual 
circumstances. You should consider taking advice from a financial adviser. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.I issued my provisional decision on 25 July 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that this service 
considers that all insurers should meet the ABIs best practice for non-advised annuity sales. 
And that at the time of the sale in May 2007, this included mentioning enhanced or impaired 
life annuities to customers. As Mr L may have already known about the health complaints he 
now suffers from, and as he had been a smoker for some time, I also agree that he may 
have had the potential to receive higher income from an enhanced annuity. 
But I dont agree with our investigator that RLM didnt meet the ABIs best practice 
requirements at the time of the sale. I think it was more likely than not that RLM sent Mr L 
the FSA factsheet: Your Pension: Its time to choose, which specifically referenced 
enhanced annuities, and therefore met the best practice requirements. I say this because 
RLM said it always enclosed this factsheet. I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr L. 
Ill explain my reasons for it. 
Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at 
the time in my decision. Ive also carefully considered the submissions both Mr L and RLM 
have provided. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, Ive looked at what evidence we do 
have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to 
have happened.
Mr L complained that RLM had failed to make reasonable enquiries about his lifestyle habits 
or health status. So I first considered if there is any evidence that RLM shouldve obtained 
information from Mr L to determine whether he mightve been eligible for an enhanced 
annuity. 
Should RLM have determined whether or not Mr L might be eligible for an enhanced 
annuity?
To do this, I need to consider the basis on which RLM sold the annuities to Mr L. 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr Ls annuity sale was on an advised basis. I say this 
because theres nothing to show Mr Ls circumstances were discussed in any detail  theres 
no fact find, or personalised recommendation, for example. 
Ive also seen the 31 May 2007 retirement pack that RLM sent to Mr L. At the start of this, it 
stated: You can buy your annuity from any annuity provider. Then, in a section before three 
options were detailed, it said: Neither [RLM] or [business P] can advise you on which option 
best suits your individual circumstances. You should consider taking advice from a financial 
adviser. 
One of the documents RLM included with the retirement pack was Key Facts about our 
services. This included a section: Which service will we provide you with?. This stated: 
You will not receive advice or a recommendation from us about the purchase of your 
annuity. You will need to make your own choice how to proceed. You must ensure that the 
product you select is suitable for your needs; if you are in any doubt and feel you require 
advice you should speak to a financial adviser.
Im satisfied that this shows that RLM didnt provide Mr L with any advice. And that RLM was clear that if Mr L wasnt sure whether the annuities he was choosing was suitable for him, he 
should seek financial advice. 
OMO
Although I acknowledge that Mr L said he didnt remember being provided with information 
about the OMO, Im also satisfied that the information in the retirement pack did make this 
option clear. I say this because the 31 May 2007 retirement pack included the OMO as the 
second (of three) options. It said:
2. To buy an annuity from another annuity provider through the Open Market Option. This 
means not using your [RLM] pension fund to buy a [business P] annuity but buying an 
annuity from any annuity provider. 
It also stated:
Different companies offer different annuity rates and different types of annuity, so you may 
be able to get a higher annuity or one more suited to your specific needs by shopping 
around. 
And explained the steps Mr L would need to take if he wanted to take his OMO.
Page 5 of the Key Features of a Guaranteed Pension Annuity document RLM sent to Mr L 
also stated that Mr L could take his annuity: 
From any company. This is known as using your Open Market Option. It gives you the 
freedom to select an annuity provider that best meets your personal circumstances. Annuity 
providers do offer different rates and products and it is very unlikely that one provider can 
offer the best deal for everyone.
However, I agree with Mr L that theres nothing in the retirement pack that states he could be 
eligible for enhanced annuity policies.
Enhanced annuities
RLM said business P couldnt offer RLMs customers enhanced annuities. So if Mr L had told 
it about any lifestyle or medical conditions that might suggest he would benefit from an 
enhanced annuity, it wouldve told him he needed to seek independent financial advice.
Its clear that Mr L was going through some serious health issues just after he bought his 
annuities. And that he had other health conditions, and had been a smoker, before he 
decided to buy his annuities. But Ive not seen any evidence that Mr L told RLM about his 
health and lifestyle at the time of the sale. Im also persuaded that if he had, RLM wouldve 
told him he needed to get independent financial advice, as it couldnt help him to access an 
enhanced annuity if he needed one. 
Im not persuaded that RLM shouldve asked Mr L about his health and lifestyle at the time of 
the sale. I say this because it wasnt providing a recommendation. Neither it - or business P - 
offered enhanced annuities at that time on Mr Ls pension policy. So I dont think that, by 
failing to take account of Mr Ls health and lifestyle when it provided the annuity quotations, 
RLM treated him unfairly.
But RLM was still required to fulfil certain obligations regarding the information it provided to 
Mr L in the run-up to his retirement. So Ive gone on to consider whether it did so. RLMs obligations at the time of sale
RLM said that although our investigator felt it had been required to explain to customers from 
March 2007 that they might receive a higher income through enhanced or impaired life 
annuities, that requirement wasnt yet in place. 
RLM also said that it always enclosed the FSA factsheet: Your Pension: Its time to choose, 
which specifically referenced enhanced annuities. 
In March 2007, the ABI updated its Statement of Good Practice on Pensions Maturities. The 
2007 version said that providers should mention enhanced and impaired life annuities. 
I agree with our investigator that this statement stated that businesses should include 
information showing: The availability of different types of retirement income product such as 
index-linked annuities, investment-linked annuities and enhanced and impaired life annuities 
and whether these can be purchased from the current Provider. I also agree with our 
investigator that the retirement pack didnt itself do this. 
However, the ABI statement also stated that it wasnt necessary to include this information if 
the FSAs factsheet Your pension: Its time to choose was sent out with the retirement 
pack.
RLM said that this factsheet was always sent out to customers in Mr Ls situation. So, on 
balance of probability, Im persuaded that it was sent out to him. Therefore I consider that 
RLM did meet the requirements at the time. I say this because FSAs factsheet included the 
following information on enhanced and impaired life options:
You may also be able to benefit from an enhanced annuity or an impaired life annuity, which 
pays a higher income, depending on your state of health and lifestyle.
The factsheet also included a flowchart which contained the question: Do you have a history 
of poor health?
It then said:
If yes, Check if you are eligible for an impaired life annuity. This pays out a higher income if 
you have a health problem that threatens to shorten your life. You may be able to get an 
enhanced annuity if you are overweight, a smoker, have done some manual jobs or live in a 
particular part of the country. So this is worth checking.
I think the factsheet was most likely sent to Mr L. By sending this factsheet, RLM fulfilled its 
requirements, under the relevant regulations, to tell Mr L about how he might be able to 
benefit from enhanced annuities. Therefore Im satisfied that Mr L was given the information 
he shouldve been given regarding his retirement options. 
Mr L also felt that he hadnt received adequate advice about the importance of shopping 
around the open market. 
FSAs factsheet contained information on the OMO. It said, within a section called: How can 
you shop around for the best deal?, Some people have found they have been able to 
increase their income by as much as a third by shopping around for their annuity. 
I consider that there was sufficient information in the retirement pack, and in FSAs 
factsheet, for Mr L to have been able to make an informed decision about whether to 
exercise his OMO or not. I know this will be disappointing for Mr L, but, for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that 
RLM did enough at the time of the sale to make Mr L aware of both the OMO and enhanced 
annuities. Therefore I dont intend to uphold the complaint. 
Response to my provisional decision
RLM had no further comments. 
Mr L still felt that, considering his health problems, he shouldve been entitled to more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has come to light to change my opinion, I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman