DRN-2792638
The complaint
Mr Fs unhappy with the quality of repairs carried out by Ageas Insurance Limited following a 
claim against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Fs complaint is about the quality of repairs carried out by Ageas repairer in October 
2019, following a minor impact by another driver. After repairs, Mr F noticed issues with the 
steering and alarm system. 
Before taking his car back to Ageas repairer, Mr F took it to a local MOT garage who said 
the faults could be due to recent repairs. When Mr F did take the car back to Ageas repairer, 
he said the steering had corrected itself, but the lights still didnt flash when locking. He also 
said the repairer told him not to contact Ageas directly about these issues. 
Mr F said Ageas repairer accepted responsibility for the issues by agreeing for a local 
manufacturer to carry out a further repair, following the fault being diagnosed. But the 
diagnosis wasnt correct, and the manufacturer said a further repair could be long and costly. 
Mr F argued Ageas repairer accepted responsibility for the issues, but later reneged this 
when they found out another repair could be long and costly. So, he complained to Ageas. 
He said the faults werent present prior to the claim incident or repair and Ageas needed to 
put things right. 
Ageas didnt agree. They said there was no evidence to show the faults were claim related, 
or their repairer had caused them, so they didnt uphold the complaint. They did say theyd 
consider a further report from Mr F showing the faults were related, but Mr F said he was 
suffering from ill health and wasnt working  so this wasnt an option. He felt Ageas should 
arrange the report which was declined. 
Mr F brought a complaint to this service and our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She didnt think there was enough evidence to show the faulty steering and alarm system 
were as a result of the claim or repairs. She also didnt think the garage had accepted 
responsibility for the faults Mr F described by offering to carry out a further repair through the 
manufacturer. 
Mr F disagreed. He felt hed been treated unfairly by Ageas, their repairer and the 
manufacturer. So, he asked for an ombudsman to decide the case and its been passed to 
me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats in dispute here is whether the faults with the steering and alarm system were caused 
by the claim incident, Ageas repairer or unrelated to either. As it stands, based on what Ive 
seen, Ive not been persuaded the faults Mr F has described after the initial repair are Ageas 
responsibility to put right. I accept this will disappoint Mr F, so Ill explain why. 
All parties agree the impact during the claim incident was minor and caused minimal 
damage. As such, the repairs required the removal of the bumper for repairing and painting. 
Ageas says no other components underneath the bumper were damaged, and this is 
consistent with a minor impact incident which occurred here. 
A diagnostics test was carried out and none of the faults Mr F has described were showing 
at that point. However, another fault was found by the car manufacturer. But this was a fault 
code regarding the engine speed signal which was said to be unrelated and deleted. After a 
repair was completed it didnt resolve the issue with the alarm system, and the car 
manufacturer said a further repair could be a long and costly job. Ill revisit this part of Mr Fs 
complaint later in my decision. 
Returning to the repairs completed by Ageas. They said theres no evidence to show these 
two further faults were related to either the claim incident or repairs. Ageas engineers said 
the minimal impact and the work carried out to the bumper wouldnt have caused any issues 
to the alarm system as no electrics were worked on during the repair. And where the alarm 
system is situated, this is nowhere near where the impact occurred, or where the repair took 
place. On balance, Im satisfied that this account is correct. Ive kept in mind that the nature 
of repair garages means theyre not generally going to seek out or work on areas of the car 
that they havent been instructed to do as this will increase their labour costs. 
As mentioned previously, Ageas have said if Mr F can provide a report show the faults as 
linked, theyll reconsider the claim. Mr F has told us he suffers from ill health and isnt 
currently working, and therefore is unable to provide this report for financial reasons. Whilst 
Im very sorry to hear of Mr Fs circumstances, I wont be directing Ageas to cover the cost of 
this report as Im currently more persuaded by the expert opinions that the minimal impact 
during the claim incident and subsequent repairs wouldnt have caused the issues Mr F 
raised. 
Mr F told us he took his car to his local MOT garage before contacting Ageas repairer. And 
they said the faults could be due to the bumper being taken off and the battery being 
disconnected. Whilst I appreciate Mr F providing this, this doesnt sufficiently persuade me to 
direct Ageas to put things right. I say this because Mr F said the MOT garage asked what 
work had been done and has said the faults could have been attributed to the repairs. But 
Im not persuaded this is strong enough evidence to rely on to require Ageas to put matters 
right in this case. 
As explained above, Mr F says Ageas repairer accepted responsibility for the faults by 
instructing the car manufacturer to carry out a further repair. I must assume this was a verbal 
agreement as Ive seen nothing in writing to show Ageas repairer accepted that the faults Mr 
F described were due to the claim incident or initial repairs. And only when this repair failed 
and it was explained a further repair could be long and costly, Mr F thinks they reneged 
responsibility. 
I understand why Mr F considered this to be the case. But its also important to explain its 
not always the case that a repairer will assume responsibility for a fault simply because 
theyve tried to offer a solution. I note Mr F said Ageas repairer told him he didnt need to 
contact Ageas at this point to report the issues. But to give some balance to this dispute, 
with the information currently available, its also a possibility that the repairer was, in the spirit of goodwill, trying to offer good customer service on behalf of Ageas to try to help find 
the cause of the faults Mr F described. Mr F took his car to the manufacturer and Ageas 
repairer approved repairs as they thought, given the diagnosis, this would fix the issue. 
However, that turned out not to be the case unfortunately. 
Summary 
In the absence of information relating to the conversations between Mr F and Ageas 
repairer at that time, I cant fairly say Ageas needs to put matters right here. Im not 
persuaded theres enough evidence available that strongly demonstrates the faults with the 
steering and alarm system were caused by the claim incident or repairs. 
On balance, Im satisfied that Ageas has fairly considered and settled this claim, in line with 
the policy terms when repairing the initial damage claimed for. Based on what Ive seen and 
heard, Im not persuaded that the later and subsequent issues raised by Mr F were either as 
a result of the initial damage from the incident or resulted as a consequence of the quality of 
the initial repairs. 
I accept my decision will come to disappoint Mr F. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with Ageas  can do for him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman