DRN-1405878
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1999 with a 
mortgage. Ms B says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the evidence from the sale and noted that to get the PPI Ms B had to complete 
an application form for it and it was separate from the application for the mortgage. Ive 
noted the application for PPI starts by asking if the consumer wants PPI and there is a box to 
tick for Yes and No. The Yes box is ticked. So, I think Ms B would have understood this 
was something she could say No to. So, having taken everything into account, I think HSBC 
most likely made it clear that Ms B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why she cant remember this now many years later. 
HSBC says it didnt recommend the PPI to Ms B, so it didnt need to check that the PPI was 
right for her. But it did need to provide Ms B with information that was sufficient for her to 
work out if it was right for her. Its possible the information HSBC gave Ms B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I dont think that better information would have put 
Ms B off the PPI. I say that because based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time, I think that Ms B was most likely eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the cover. I 
say this as she told us whilst her initial sick pay was good it dropped significantly after six 
months and that she had no other means she could rely on if anything went wrong. This 
policy couldve covered Ms Bs mortgage payments for up to 12 months in the event she was 
too ill to work, or if she lost his job. So, I think Ms B couldve found this cover useful.
So, having thought about everything carefully, I dont think that better information would have 
put Ms B off the PPI.
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman