DRN-3479520
The complaint
Ms E complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited refuses to refund money she lost 
to an investment scammer.
 
What happened
In July 2018, Ms E saw an advert showing celebrities from a well-known TV programme 
promoting Bitcoin. She made contact with an investment company Ill call B who sold her an 
opportunity to make money with limited risk and was promised large profits. On 3 July 2018, 
she agreed to deposit £400 with B.
 
Another investment company Ill call E contacted Ms E and the caller tried to persuade her 
to invest with them. Ms E wasnt comfortable with the caller as they contacted her at different 
times providing different names. One of the callers (Adam) assured Ms E that he was 
representing B and that they were regulated in Cyprus and Ms E was persuaded to invest 
more. On 5 July 2018, Ms E made three payments totalling £5,200, she also received a 
credit of £200 from E.
Adam asked Ms E to review her deposits and her investment performance on her trading 
platform with B. Ms E signed the necessary paperwork at Adams request and also spent 
many hours on the phone with him. But when Ms E received her John Lewis bank statement, 
she noted another company Ill call X as well as E took payments. Ms E suspected this 
could be a scam and contacted John Lewis for assistance with recovering her payments. 
On 21 October 2018, Ms E received a further credit of £1,384.80 from E. On 23 October 
2018, John Lewis wrote to Ms E with its final response letter. It explained it was unable to 
attempt chargeback claims on her behalf because of Mastercards limitations. It paid her £25 
as a gesture of goodwill.
Unhappy with John Lewis response, Ms E referred her complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators felt that B was operating a scam and misrepresented themselves to 
Ms E. He suggested a s.75 claim should succeed. John Lewis didnt agree. The complaint 
was reviewed by another Investigator who felt the first payment to B should be returned on 
the basis that Ms E had established a misrepresentation claim under s.75. But he didnt 
agree the payments to E or X were recoverable because Ms E hadnt established a valid link 
between B, E and X and there was no evidence to suggest that E or X made 
misrepresentations to Ms E. 
John Lewis agreed but Ms E did not reply, despite our Investigator chasing a response. The 
complaint has therefore been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our second Investigator that this complaint should be upheld in 
part and Ill explain why. 
Ive first considered that Ms E had no valid chargeback rights because the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme significantly limits any chargeback options related to investments or 
gambling. 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Ms Es complaint on the 
basis that John Lewis is liable to her under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out 
what the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. 
Im also satisfied that there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain in 
relation to the first deposit transaction. Ms E understood she was investing with B and this is 
who she paid. 
I have no doubt that X acted as a payment processor for E, not least because Ms E received 
refunds back directly from E which appear to be as the result of payments she made to X. 
But Ms B understood her agreement was with B. Shes provided evidence of her broker 
Adams email address and this corresponds with Bs details. She also said she was able to 
access and review the performance of her deposits on Bs platform. But there is no evidence 
that B is linked to E in anyway. Ive seen that B was based in Estonia and E is based in 
Cyprus. Ms E has also not supplied any evidence that she had a contract or relationship with 
E and therefore there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier chain for her payments to them. 
My consideration of s.75 is therefore limited to Ms Es payment to B as this is who she held a 
contract with. 
Im satisfied Ms Es payment to B financed their agreement  which was that B would make 
her money and provide a trading platform that she could use and withdraw funds as and 
when she wished. 
Im further satisfied that Ms Es claim relates to the transaction in that she feels she was 
tricked into depositing the payment with B for the dual purpose of:a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Ms E to deposit larger amounts. 
Ms E does not believe that B was operating legitimately and believes she was misled into 
thinking they were.
This claim  that Ms E was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
In this case, if Ms E was told by B matters that were factually untrue in order to trick her into 
entering into the deposit-transaction, her claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if B made 
binding promises to her as part of those transactions and went on to breach these that would 
make her claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
Im satisfied B told Ms E they operated a legitimate enterprise and that she could achieve 
returns of more than her deposit. Ms E was induced into entering into an agreement with B 
on the basis of these claims. There is supporting evidence in the form of regulator warnings 
published in October 2018 and January 2019, as well as negative reviews online that echo 
Ms Es testimony. B was also not regulated by the FCA (as required) or any other jurisdiction 
as far as Im reasonably aware at the time of Ms Es deposit. 
Im satisfied Ms E has a claim for misrepresentation on the grounds that B made a series of 
misrepresentations, namely that they were operating a legitimate enterprise and that Ms E 
could earn a profit from her deposit-transaction.
John Lewis should put Ms E back into the position she would have been had the deposit-
transaction of £400 not been entered into. So, she should receive refunds of this amount, 
less any amounts credited to her by B and Ive noted they didnt credit any amounts to her 
account with John Lewis.
Im not satisfied the payments to E are recoverable under s.75.
My final decision
My final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited should refund Ms E the 
deposit-transaction, plus interest. It should:
Refund the deposit-transaction of £400; 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If John Lewis deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Ms E with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman