DRN-2252353
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Vitality Health Limited didnt give them a partial refund of the 
annual premium they paid for their private health insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had the benefit of private health insurance, underwritten by Vitality. 
The policy started in January 2020 and, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, benefits 
included: in-patient and day-patient hospital treatment, diagnostic tests, outpatient surgical 
procedures, and full cover for cancer.
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy because they say, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Vitality 
withdrew cover for all day-patient and in-patient treatment under their policy. As a result, in 
or around May 2020, they asked Vitality for a mid-term premium discount. 
In response, Vitality said:
a lot of private medical facilities had been taken over by the NHS to assist with 
treatment during the pandemic and this was outside of its control. However, it didnt 
accept that it had withdrawn cover for all day-patient and in-patient treatment as a 
result. It said that, although limited, where possible - and if urgent in nature  private 
medical treatment was still going ahead. 
if a member contacted it to make a claim it was endeavouring to do all it could to 
assist. Vitality also explained the other benefits it had introduced for policyholders in 
response to the pandemic.  
in order to assist customers who may be struggling to meet their monthly premiums, 
it had set up a premium saver option. As Mr and Mrs F had paid for their policy 
upfront by way of an annual premium, Vitality said they wouldnt ordinarily be eligible 
for this option. However, it did offer Mr and Mrs F a refund equivalent to 50% of their 
monthly premiums for three months  subject to certain terms. Mr and Mrs F were 
asked to contact a particular department if they wanted to accept this offer. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr and Mrs F complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold their complaint. As Mr and Mrs F didnt agree, their complaint has been passed to me 
to consider everything afresh and decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Thats because:
During 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to support the 
NHSs response to the pandemic. This temporarily affected Vitalitys ability to provide 
the full range of services it would usually be able to offer to customers under their 
particular medical insurance policies  including Mr and Mrs F. This was due to the 
unprecedented and unforeseen impact of Covid-19 pandemic and, Im satisfied, was 
outside of Vitalitys of control. 
Ive seen no evidence that Vitality withdrew in-patient and day-patient treatment 
cover under the policy, in its entirety, as Mr and Mrs F say. Vitality accept that 
elective and non-urgent treatments may have been deferred or delayed as a result of 
the pandemic. But it says it tried to maintain its usual service as much as possible 
throughout this period by offering remote consultations where possible. It also says it 
adapted some of its partners and rewards benefits to be enjoyed at home, such as 
points that wouldve, ordinarily, gone towards cinema tickets being converted to 
vouchers for home rental. And customers were able to claim a free bag of coffee 
from a particular coffee chain whilst coffee shops were closed. And in the absence of 
any information to the contrary, Im satisfied Vitality did put in place other benefits to 
support its customers during this time.
Mr and Mrs F suffered no actual detriment by the lack of access to private treatment 
at the time as they havent suggested they were unable to access any treatment 
required. 
Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs Fs policy was still capable of benefitting them during 
this time even though they didnt need to make a claim. Whilst they didnt require any 
treatment during this time, if they had done, Im not persuaded Vitality wouldnt have 
sought to assist them  particularly if they needed treatment urgently. Thats 
supported by an email Vitality sent Mr and Mrs F towards the end of May 2020 which 
said: urgent treatment for conditions such as cancer is continuing during this period 
for new and existing claims. For peace of mind, this could include options such as 
treatment at home for other claims, including elective care, you can continue to 
claim for treatment which will go ahead virtually where possible, or at a later date
Vitality offered Mr and Mrs F a 50% reduction in premiums for three months in June 
2020. That was on the basis that they relinquish certain benefits recently introduced 
by Vitality to its customers in response to the pandemic. That included discounts on 
healthy foods at a certain supermarket and a cash benefit in the event of 
hospitalisation due to Covid-19, up to £5,000. The premium discount was also 
offered on the basis that Mr and Mrs F agreed to a stipulated waiting period for any 
in-patient or day-patient hospital admissions, unless the treatment was for cancer or 
where it is not medically advised to wait for the treatment. Mr and Mrs F didnt take 
up that offer and thats, of course, up to them. But Im not persuaded Vitalitys offer 
was unreasonable; if Mr and Mrs F wanted the benefit of a premium discount, I dont 
think its unfair that they would need to agree to relinquish some of the benefits that were introduced as a result of the pandemic for the period of the premium reduction. 
And, in those circumstances, agree a delay in any non-urgent in-patient or day-
patient care they might require.   
I know Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help them to 
know that their complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman