DRN-4207479
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car acquired with finance from Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
(SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with SMF. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had covered around 
36,262 miles.
In March 2023 Mr B experienced issues with the gearbox and a loss of power. He took the 
car to a garage and obtained a diagnostic which stated that there was a fault with the 
gearbox and that the gearbox needed to be replaced.
Mr B raised a complaint with SMF and asked it to cover the costs of repairs. Mr B later paid 
for the repairs himself on 14 March 2023 at a cost of £4,729,20.
In its final response, SMF said it wasnt upholding Mr Bs complaint. It said it hadnt been 
able to arrange an inspection of the car to determine whether the fault with the gearbox was 
present or developing at the point of supply. SMF also said that because the car had 
covered around 15,000 miles since the point of supply before the gearbox fault occurred, it 
didnt think the fault was present or developing at the point of supply.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that because there hadnt been an 
independent inspection of the car, there was very limited information available to determine 
whether the fault with the gearbox was likely to have been present or developing at the point 
of supply. The investigator said that if the fault with the gearbox had been present at the 
point of supply, he thought it was likely that Mr B wouldve experienced issues with the car 
sooner than he did. The investigator concluded that it was more likely that the problem was 
due to wear and tear.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed gone ahead and had the car repaired because hed been 
told that an independent inspection would take two weeks to arrange, and he needed the car 
repaired as he used it to get to work. Mr B said he didnt think it was reasonable that a car 
hed had for under a year needed a new gearbox.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods incudes their general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr B was around 5 years old and had covered around 36,262 miles. So 
its reasonable to expect that the car would already have a degree of wear and tear and that 
it was likely to require repairs and maintenance sooner than a brand new car. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs with a car within the first six 
months of the point of supply, its assumed that the fault was present or developing at the 
point of supply and its generally up to the business to put things right.
Where a fault occurs outside of the first six months of the point of supply, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to prove that the fault was present or developing at 
the point of supply.
Ive reviewed all the available information about the problems which Mr B experienced with 
the car. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car had a fault. I say this because the 
diagnostic report and the repair invoice from the third party garage show that there was a 
fault with the gearbox which required the gearbox to be replaced.
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied.
An independent inspection report can help to determine whether the fault was likely to have 
been present or developing at the point of supply. In this case, no inspection took place 
because Mr B had already arranged for repairs to be completed. So I have very limited 
information available to determine whether the fault was present at the point of supply.
Neither the diagnostic report nor the repair invoice from the third party garage say anything 
about what caused the fault, or whether the fault was likely to have been present or 
developing at the point of supply. So these documents arent useful in trying to determine 
whether the fault was present at the point of supply.
The car was around 5 years old at the point of supply and had covered around 36,262 miles. 
It passed a MOT in February 2022  a month before Mr B purchased it  with no advisories. 
I can see that Mr B covered around 15,000 miles in the car in the first year that he had it 
before the fault occurred. Taking all of this into account, I dont think its likely that the fault 
with the gearbox was present or developing at the point of supply. I say this because if the 
fault had been present, I dont think Mr B wouldve been able to cover the mileage that he 
did.
The legislation places the burden of proof on Mr B to show that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply. I havent seen any evidence which suggests that the fault 
was present at the point of supply, or that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. Therefore Im unable to uphold the complaint and I wont be asking SMF to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Emma DavyOmbudsman