DRN-2043086
The complaint
Mr W complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr W had a car. For the year from March 2019, he insured it under a policy with esure. 
Later he acquired a sports utility vehicle. In June 2019 Mr W spoke to an esure advisor to 
change the vehicle on the policy. He said his new vehicle was worth £5,700.00.
Unfortunately in February 2020, during widespread flooding, that vehicle suffered water 
damage. It was, esure said, beyond economic repair and a total loss.
Mr W complained to esure that it didnt offer him the agreed value of £5,700.00 - or even the 
pre-accident market value of the vehicle. The final valuation from esure was £4,700.00.
Later, esure turned down his complaint but credited Mr W £100.00 for the inconvenience 
caused. Unhappy with that, and with help from his father, Mr W brought his complaint to us 
in mid-March 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
policy documents showed that the policy was a market value policy. The advisor couldve 
been clearer when Mr W changed the vehicle. But the investigator couldnt say incorrect 
information was provided. And he thought £100.00 was fair and reasonable.
The investigator thought that, based on the guide prices, £4,700.00 was fair and in line with 
the policy terms.
Mr W disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. His father says, in summary, that:
When Mr W rang to change the vehicle, esure agreed that the value of the new 
vehicle would go down as an agreed value. 
Mr W didnt check this on his policy documents. Mr W suffers from ADHD and 
psychosis. He finds it difficult to use computers.
The insurance premiums were based on the value as disclosed at the time of 
change. If the car was worth less, then Mr W has been overpaying on the premiums.
The valuations of esure and the trade guides are well below the current market value 
of vehicles advertised to purchase.
The trade guides are based on prices for similar cars going through auctions. This is 
a trade value, not a retail value.
This car is no longer produced. There are few going through auctions, which impacts 
current values. 
It was not and is not now possible to replace this car for the value indicated, even 
taking into account potential negotiation within the deal, which must be unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies cover a vehicle up to its market value at the time of damage 
or loss. In a minority of cases, such as for classic cars, there may be agreed value policies 
which cover a vehicle for a value agreed for the length of the policy.
Im sorry to hear that Mr W has ADHD and psychosis. However, I havent seen any evidence 
that esure shouldve known about that. 
From the policy documents, I find it clear that  when he took it out in March 2019 - the 
policy covered the old car up to its market value, less any policy excess.
Mr W bought a new vehicle. I have no reason to doubt his statement that it was difficult to 
get any discount off the advertised price.
Mr W rang esure to change the vehicle on the policy. I find that, when the advisor asked him 
what his new vehicle was worth, Mr W asked if this will go down as an agreed value.
I dont think the advisor properly understood or dealt with that question. I consider that esure 
is responsible for the advisors lack of clarity. But I dont consider that the telephone 
conversation was enough to change the policy from a policy that covered the vehicle for its 
market value to a policy that covered it for an agreed value of £5,700.00. 
After the change of vehicle, esure sent out new policy documents. They said that the policy 
covered the vehicle for its market value. Mr W had to pay a changed premium for his new 
vehicle.
In the usual course of events, it was likely that the value of the vehicle would go down over 
time. But the premium would stay the same until the end of the policy year.
So I dont find that esure treated Mr W unfairly by dealing with his claim as being a claim up 
to the pre-accident market value of the vehicle. And I dont find that esure treated Mr W 
unfairly by charging him the premium it did.
Ive looked at whether esure followed a reasonable process to reach a fair valuation. I place 
weight on the trade guides. I place less weight on advertisements as selling prices tend to be 
lower.
Its not the case that the trade guides contain only trade prices. They also contain retail 
prices  which is what we look at. The guides reflect supply and demand. 
Ive noted the information about the relevant features of Mr Ws vehicle including its make, 
model, specification, age, recorded mileage and condition. I accept that the model is no 
longer manufactured and there is demand for used vehicles.From the trade guides for a vehicle like Mr Ws in February 2020, I dont consider that esure 
treated Mr W unfairly by its valuation of £4,700.00. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct 
esure to increase its valuation  or to do any more in response to Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman