DRN-2335004
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way BISL Limited, operating under the RAC brand, handled his 
car insurance renewal. 
What happened
BISL have accepted that a technical error meant they didnt renew Mr Es insurance as had 
been agreed on 28 April 2020. That meant he wasnt covered from 4 May, until 7 May. 
A policy was then set up, with BISL taking steps to have the premium be as Mr E had earlier 
agreed. But they said hed have to pay the whole cost up front. Hed previously agreed to 
pay over monthly instalments. 
There was also then a mistake in the policy, corrected when Mr E raised it on 8 May. The 
correction led to the premium reducing by £34.42.
As well as these steps, BISLs response to Mr Es complaint apologised and paid him £50 in 
compensation for the upset caused. 
Our investigator felt these steps were reasonable to resolve Mr Es complaints. But Mr E 
feels BISL should have honoured the initial agreement with him, to allow him to pay for the 
policy monthly. And he feels the compensation is too low, particularly given what could have 
happened while his car wasnt insured. 
As theres no agreement to resolve the complaints, Ill now make a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can appreciate Mr E has suffered some disappointment due to BISLs errors here, I 
find the steps theyve taken do enough to put things right. Ill explain why.
Its not disputed that BISL didnt provide the service Mr E could have expected. Ive seen 
hed agreed to the new policy BISL offered ahead of his renewal date, so thats what he 
should have got, with no break in his insurance cover. 
My aim as an ombudsman is to put Mr E as close as possible to the position hed have been 
in if the service had been reasonable. But Im not trying to punish BISL. Im looking for a 
resolution thats fair to both sides of the complaint. 
Here, Mr Es talked about the terms of his agreement with BISL not being as agreed. But the 
only lasting changes I can see are that the policy started on 7 May instead of 4 May, and it 
had to be paid for in one go, not monthly. 
Mr Es talked about what could have happened due to the policy starting three days later 
than agreed. But there hasnt actually been any financial loss for Mr E as a result of this. And 
Im not convinced there would have been  BISL have said they would have dealt with any 
claims or other issues that came up while Mr E wasnt insured, as this was caused by their 
error. And thats backed up by the fact they made sure Mr E didnt pay more for the policy as 
a result of the error.  
So Im satisfied that the steps BISL took did enough to take responsibility for the error and 
quickly put it right. 
The change from monthly instalments to a single payment was understandably disappointing 
for Mr E. I can see it would have been better if the credit offered in April could have been 
given in May. But I accept something meant this wasnt available, so BISL could only offer a 
policy paid for in one go. 
I havent seen this caused Mr E financial hardship, or meant he needed to use more 
expensive credit to pay for the policy. So again, I dont see any financial impact on Mr E that 
needs to be put right. But having to find the money to pay in one go would have added an 
unwanted inconvenience to the matter. 
I can appreciate Mr Es disappointed with the service he received, and upset about what he 
thinks could have happened during the three days he had no insurance for his car. But I find 
the apologies BISL gave him, and the quick action to put the policy in place at no extra cost 
to him, makes the £50 compensation theyve paid the right amount for this case. I find they 
dont need to take any further action to put things right here. 
Mr E raised a couple of other points, but I suspect these wouldnt have been mentioned if not 
for the more significant points Ive already discussed. A lack of security checks on 28 April 
reflects that Mr E had already logged in to his account using a password. That gave him 
access to the personal details linked to his account, so asking about those wouldnt have 
made the account any more secure. And while there was a mistake on the 7 May policy 
document, it was corrected a day later, as soon as Mr E raised it, and at no cost to him. I 
dont think anything more is needed to put that right.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman