DRN-2802790
The complaint
Mr T says that Scottish Widows Limited has unreasonably refused his critical illness claim.  
What happened
Mr T took out his policy in February 2018, through an independent financial adviser. It offers 
him £100,000 of level term life cover until February 2025.
In September 2020, Mr T sadly suffered from sudden visual impairment in one eye requiring 
admission to hospital. Mr T required a type of carotid arterial surgery, but sadly suffered 99% 
loss of vision in the affected eye.  
He therefore made a critical illness claim to Scottish Widows, with a representative for the 
IFA calling Scottish Widows to explain Mr T had suffered from a type of stroke. However, on 
receipt of further information from Mr T, Scottish Widows said it couldnt consider a claim 
because his circumstances were not those meeting the listed policy definition of stroke. In 
fact, he had suffered from a central retinal artery occlusion, or eye stroke.
Mr T appealed the decision, with his IFA writing to Scottish Widows on his behalf.   
However, Scottish Widows was not prepared to change its view. It said that the cause of Mr 
Ts condition was not covered by his policy as eye strokes were a policy exclusion. Further, 
the resultant blindness he had suffered was only in one eye. His policy wording required 
impairment in both eyes, with a specific severity measure for the better of the two eyes 
which Mr T would not meet in the event of loss of vision in only one eye.  
It said that it had therefore correctly refused his claim under both policy definitions as there 
was no clear evidence that an insured event had occurred. While Scottish Widows noted that 
more recent policies did provide cover for blindness in one eye, it could only look at claims 
against Mr Ts particular policy wording, which was priced appropriately for the risk of its 
specified conditions.  
Mr T lodged a complaint with this service. He said he did not believe the decision Scottish 
Widows had reached was fair in his circumstances. He said that his policys stroke 
definition requires a "neurological deficit with persistent clinical symptoms lasting at least 24 
hours, yet his loss of vision was permanent and despite this a claim still was refused.
Mr T explained he had suffered from a life altering illness, and he felt that Scottish Widows 
had the ability to apply discretion to his circumstances but it had simply chosen not to do so. 
He submitted that in circumstances where his diagnosis does not exactly meet its terms, 
Scottish Widows should be able to take an individual view with respect to his condition.  
An investigator reviewed the complaint but he didnt think it ought to be upheld. He said he 
felt Scottish Widows had reasonably refused Mr Ts claim as the policy terms expressly 
excluded eye stroke. Further, Mr Ts policy didnt provide cover for blindness in one eye, and 
therefore Scottish Widows hadnt acted unfairly by refusing a claim on that basis either.  
Whilst he understood that Mr T was unhappy about his policy containing exclusions, the 
investigator noted that Scottish Widows wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy. Since 
he could not say Scottish Widows had acted outside of the policy terms, the investigator 
didnt think the claim should succeed.  
Mr T disagreed. He said that he has been made aware that Scottish Widows has the ability 
to exercise discretion on claims and he believes it ought to have done so here. He said that 
in normal circumstances the loss of sight would be insured, but because it was caused by a 
type of stroke it is excluded  and that is not reasonable. He believes Scottish Widows 
actions are fundamentally wrong and that it ought to be made to reconsider.  
Scottish Widows didnt have any further comments to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of Mr Ts condition and the effect that it has had on his life. Though I 
realise my decision wont be what he has hoped for, I am also of the view that this complaint 
should not succeed. I wont be asking Scottish Widows to pay a claim. 
I know Mr T feels strongly that he took this policy out to cover him in circumstances akin to 
the position he is in now. And I dont doubt that. But, this is not a complaint about the sale of 
the policy  if Mr T is unhappy about what was put to him in 2018 hell need to address that 
separately, by reporting any concerns (if held) to the business that sold his policy. 
To be fair to both parties in a complaint, I need to look at the policy itself and decide if 
Scottish Widows has acted within the policy terms. Mr Ts policy provides that a lump sum 
payment will be made to him (section 5.1 of the policy terms) if he meet[s] the definition for 
an illness which is a critical illness. The policy wording then goes on to provide an 
exhaustive list of those critical illnesses/critical events. 
The two relevant to Mr T are stroke  of specified severity and blindness  permanent and 
irreversible. Ill look at each of these in turn. The policy wording says:
Stroke  of specified severity
Death of brain tissue due to inadequate blood supply or haemorrhage within the skull 
that has resulted in all of the following evidence of stroke:
i) Neurological deficit with persistent clinical symptoms lasting at least 24 hours; 
and
ii) Definite evidence of death of tissue or haemorrhage on a brain scan.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
i) Transient ischaemic attack.
ii)Death of tissue of the optic nerve or retina/eye stroke [my emphasis].
Notwithstanding that Mr T feels a claim ought to otherwise be paid on a discretionary basis, 
it is clear from the wording above that the event Mr T has suffered is expressly excluded 
from the policy wording. Scottish Widows is therefore not obliged to consider any claim on 
this basis as the cover provided does not include cover for any type of eye stroke.  
Blindness  permanent and irreversible
Permanent and irreversible loss of sight to the extent that even when tested with the 
use of visual aids, is measured to be either of the following
i) visual acuity at 3/60 or worse in the better eye using a Snellen eye chart;ii)visual acuity at 6/60 or worse in the better eye together with a loss of 
peripheral visual field and a central visual field of no more than 20 degrees 
in total.
The wording for blindness requires readings in both eyes, for which there is then a threshold 
for the severity of the visual acuity in the better eye. I realise Mr Ts condition is severe and 
he has a significant impairment as a result of his eye stroke. But as Mr T has blindness 
restricted to one eye, Scottish Widows was again reasonable in applying the policy terms as 
Mr Ts circumstances are not provided for within the policy wording.  
The nature of this type of insurance does mean that each condition requires a complete 
definition, as well as any policy exclusions which may apply. So, that will require an insurer 
to list every condition in full, ordinarily as Scottish Widows did here, by issuing a policy 
booklet. I dont find there to be anything wrong with that, particularly where the policy clearly 
explains how the definition must be met in order for a claim payment to be issued.    
Aside from including mandatory conditions of stroke, heart attack, and cancer, insurers can 
decide what illnesses they will cover. Industry guidance from the Association of British 
Insurers proposes model wordings for insurers to use in critical illness policies, and the 
guidance expressly says how insurers are free to decide on the conditions and exclusions 
applicable to their products. 
The decision an insurer makes to include some conditions and not others in a critical illness 
policy isnt something we can look into or make awards about. Thats because our service is 
not the regulator; that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority. 
What we can determine is if, in the circumstances, a respondent business has been fair and 
reasonable in carrying out a contract of insurance. I know Mr T feels strongly about the 
matter. But in my view, the refusal of a claim for a condition which isnt provided for in the 
policy terms (or is expressly excluded in those terms) is a fair action for an insurer to take. 
Further, it may assist Mr T to note that in the ABI guidance Ive referred to above (with the 
most recent being the 2018 ABI Guide to Minimum Standards for Critical Illness Cover) 
both of the model wordings proposed have been adopted by Scottish Widows. 
In this instance of the critical illness of stroke, the ABI suggests wording which includes 
exclusions for TIAs, brain tissue or blood vessel injury and death of tissue of the optic nerve 
or retina/eye stroke. For the definition of blindness, the ABI model wording proposes a 
measure of visual acuity in the better eye, which is the same threshold Scottish Widows has 
used in Mr Ts policy wording above. I cannot therefore conclude that it has acted out of step 
with best practice or that the terms of Mr Ts policy are inherently unreasonable.  
Finally, I realise Mr T has explained to our investigator how he is aware of circumstances 
where Scottish Widows is able to use discretion to pay out on certain claims. I do not doubt 
that. But within the constraints of my role at this service, I am not able to force Scottish 
Widows to apply discretion or to pay a claim on an ex-gratia basis where it is acting outside 
the policy terms. 
Thats because its the terms that form the contract of insurance, and that activity (the 
carrying out of the contract) falls under the rules applying to this service. As Ive already 
stated above, I dont think Scottish Widows has been unreasonable in how it has assessed 
the claim under the insurance terms; I therefore cant ask it to do anything more.   
My final decisionI know my decision will be disappointing for Mr T, but I cannot compel Scottish Widows to 
pay a claim where his impairment is excluded or otherwise not provided for within his 
specific life and critical illness policy wording.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman