DRN-3043162
The complaint
Mr P says Black Horse Limited mis-sold him a policy they called payment protection plan. 
The policy provided cover for life and critical illness. The policy provided no cover for 
accident, sickness or unemployment cover. As such the policy was not a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr P was taking out a loan. When he did so he also took out the policy he is now 
complaining about. He paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I explain why below.
Black Horse Limited had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Black Horse Limited has provided a copy of the application form Mr P signed from the time 
of the sale. The cover is described as Optional. To get the cover Mr P had to apply his 
signature in the part of the form that applied to the cover. I can see that Mr P did sign for the 
cover. And his signature for the cover was separate to his signature for the credit. 
So, considering all the submissions made in this case about these issues, and in the 
absence of any detailed testimony from Mr P to the contrary, taking everything into account, 
I think its more likely that Mr P knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure, even though he may not remember that now, many years later. 
Black Horse Limited says they recommended the policy to Mr P. This meant Black Horse 
Limited needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy was suitable for him. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ps circumstances at the time I dont think the policy was 
necessarily unsuitable for him. I explain why below.
Mr P was eligible for the policy and he could have benefitted from the cover had he needed 
to make a claim. The policy cost appears to have been affordable. 
Mr P could have benefitted from the critical illness cover. Mr P said he wasnt working and 
he told us he had no savings at the time of the sale. So, considering all of this, I think he 
couldve found the policy useful. 
Mr P told us he was married and was taking out a loan for a significant amount of money. 
Mr P told us he had no savings, so his means were insufficient to have repaid his borrowing 
in the event of his death. And so, he may have thought it was important to give some 
protection to someone who was important in his life, his wife, by providing funds to repay his 
borrowing in the event of his death. 
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr P.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr P, Black Horse Limited also had to give him 
clear enough information about the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Black Horse Limited gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was 
suitable for him, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him from buying it. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman