DRN-1045523
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a claim he made for storm 
damage to his roof.  He is also unhappy with how the claim has generally been handled. 
What happened
Mr H has his buildings and contents insurance policy with UKI. On 8 May 2019 he noticed 
water coming into his home, following heavy rain. He called UKI on 9 May 2019 to ask for 
advice on what to do. He was told cover was provided under the policy; a surveyor would 
come out and do investigations and repairs carried out. 
On 10 May 2019 a loss adjuster attended the property and assessed the damage. He 
concluded that storm conditions hadn't been present, and no storm damage occurred. He 
concluded the valley must have back up with debris which resulted in water ingressing into 
the property. He also noted that mortar was broken and moss covered lots of the roof tiles, 
indicating they were porous. He therefore declined the claim.
Mr H complained, not only because he was led to believe the claim was covered, but also 
because he wasn't told a loss adjuster would be sent, otherwise he would have appointed a 
loss assessor himself. He is also unhappy with interaction between the loss adjuster and his 
next door neighbour, which is being dealt with separately.  UKI stood by its decision to 
decline the claim but agreed Mr H's claim call hadn't been handled well particularly as he'd 
been led to believe the claim would be paid. So it offered £100 compensation for what went 
wrong. 
Our investigator concluded that UKI hadn't been acting unfairly when declining the claim; 
she too didn't find the weather conditions experienced around Mr H's area amounted to a 
storm.  
Mr H has asked for an ombudsman's final decision. In summary, he's argued that:
The loss adjuster should find the source of the leak to ensure that cover isn't 
provided. 
The weight of the rain caused the leak. 
We shouldn't rely on the information provided by the loss adjuster as they are 
untrustworthy; there is no evidence to back up his statements. 
The loss adjuster wouldn't have been sent if a storm hadn't occurred. He believes a 
series of misleading statements have been made so that a loss adjuster could be 
sent by subterfuge. 
The initial call handler had said there had been a storm and said the claim would be 
covered. 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure both Mr H and UKI that although I have only summarised the 
background and evidence above, I have read and considered everything provided in its 
entirety. 
The starting point for any complaint about an insurance claim is the contract between the 
parties - the policy of insurance. The policy sets out the terms and conditions, what cover is 
provided, definitions and any exclusions that apply. 
Mr H's policy is not an 'all risks' policy which means it doesn't provide cover for all 
eventualities. The only events it provides cover for are the insured perils listed within the 
policy document. These include, amongst others, theft, escape of water and storm or flood 
damage. That means in order for Mr H's claim to succeed it has to be for an insured peril 
(and for no exclusions to apply). 
It isn't in dispute that Mr H's property experienced an ingress of water following a period of 
rain. But it doesn't necessarily follow that Mr H has a claim under the policy - that depends 
on whether the ingress of water was caused by an insured peril; in this case a storm or flood 
(the only peril that could be applicable as Mr H isn't covered for accidental damage). 
The policy doesn't define storm. We would usually say that there needs to have been high 
winds, which might be accompanied by rain, snow or sleet. Sometimes we might find that 
rain, snow or sleet of itself can constitute a storm, but it would need to have been 
exceptionally severe and this is quite rare. 
I've looked at the weather records for Mr H's area for 8 May 2019 and the days leading up to 
that. And although there are periods of fairly strong wind and some rain, these were not of a 
strength or intensity that would lead me to conclude a storm had occurred. I accept there 
might have been some prolonged rain, particularly on 8 May. But a storm is usually a one off 
event, not rain which continues throughout a period of time. As I conclude there was no 
storm, it follows the damage caused to Mr H's property hasn't been caused by a peril insured 
under the policy. 
I appreciate Mr H would like to know what has caused the rain to leak through to his interior. 
The pictures taken by the loss adjuster show that in areas the mortar is wearing and cracked 
and that roof tiles are covered in moss. Either of these could be an entry point for rain. And 
whilst Mr H would like the loss adjuster to establish the exact cause of the leak, that wasn't 
the adjuster's role; the adjuster was there to investigate what had happened decide whether 
cover was provided under the policy. I'm satisfied the adjuster did that. I understand Mr H 
isn't happy with the adjuster but I'm satisfied UKI employed a business that specialises in 
claims to investigate.  Mr H hasn't provided any persuasive evidence the conclusions 
reached by the adjuster were wrong - such as a comparable report by a suitably qualified 
professional. 
Mr H has argued that UKI wouldn't have sent out a loss adjuster unless a storm had 
occurred. I disagree. Its standard practice amongst all insurers to send out a loss adjuster or 
a surveyor when a claim is made. And I have already found above that there wasn't a storm. 
Nothing in the business' actions here would lead me to conclude there has been 'sharp 
practice'. 
Overall, I conclude UKI has declined the claim in accordance with the terms and conditions 
as the damage claimed for hasn't been caused by an insured peril. I therefore don't find 
UKI was acting unfairly or unreasonably. Mr H has also complained that he was led to believe the claim would be covered when he 
initially contacted UKI. UKI accepts the call wasn't handled as it should have been; the call 
handler had provided the wrong information about what would happen and whether the claim 
would be covered. But Mr H isn't entitled to have his claim covered as a result of the wrong 
information - he's entitled to be put in the position he would have been in had things gone 
right. And that position is the one he now finds himself in, the claim would be investigated 
and a decision made about whether cover was provided. And although Mr H has argued his 
position has been prejudiced as he could have employed a loss assessor I'm not persuaded 
it has; it has always been open to Mr H to obtain a comparable report had he wanted to do 
so. I therefore find the offer of £100 for the inconvenience of the incorrect information being 
provided to be fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. The offer made by U K Insurance 
Limited is fair and reasonable and I leave it to Mr H to decide whether he wants to accept it 
or not. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman