DRN-3882382
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (trading 
as Ulster Bank) failed to properly communicate with its director, and then wrongly restricted 
its bank account.
Mr J, who is a director of S, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
Mr J told us:
In April 2022, the bank account S held with Ulster Bank was restricted for around a 
week.
He had received no prior warning that the account was about to be restricted.
He later discovered that Ulster Bank claims to have sent three letters to him, in 
January, February, and March 2022, telling him that unless he provided certain 
information Ss account would be restricted.
He was able to find the last of those letters, and he sent a photograph of it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. The envelope was unbranded, was not marked 
Private and Confidential, and did not bear any codes obviously identifying it as from 
the bank. 
He believes the other two letters were likely to have been sent in similar envelopes. If 
they had been, he would have treated them as junk  he gets so much junk mail that 
does not open unsolicited post unless the sender is clearly identified.
It is usually obvious when correspondence is from Ulster Bank. He sent us 
photographs of other envelopes he has received from the bank, which are marked 
Private and Confidential and have a NatWest/Ulster Bank code in the bottom left of 
the envelope.
He considers it unreasonable for Ulster Bank to have communicated with him in the 
way it did  particularly during a pandemic. It could have contacted him by email or 
telephone, and then he would have responded.
He is concerned that this problem will recur. To resolve his complaint, he would like 
Ulster Bank to commit to either using Recorded/Special Delivery for this sort of 
correspondence in future, or to commit to using branded envelopes so he knows the 
letters have come from Ulster Bank. 
Ulster Bank told us that it is satisfied it carried out its regulatory responsibilities properly. It 
reinstated Mr Js access to Ss account as soon as he provided the information it wanted. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but he did not uphold it. He thought Ulster 
Bank had communicated with Mr J in an appropriate way, and that the bank did nothing 
wrong when it applied restrictions to Ss account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr J, but having done so there is very little I can add to what 
our investigator has already said. 
Ulster Bank is required to carry out its regulatory responsibilities, but it has considerable 
discretion as to how it carries out those responsibilities. It would of course have been open 
to Ulster Bank to choose to use special/recorded delivery, to use branded envelopes, to 
email or call to warn Mr J to expect a physical letter, or to email or call Mr J to tell him his 
companys account was about to be restricted unless he responded to its letter(s). But Ulster 
Bank was not required to do any of those things  and it did not do so.
I know Mr J strongly disagrees with me, but I think it was reasonable for Ulster Bank to 
contact him by letter. I think that is true even during a pandemic, and even if the letters are 
sent through the ordinary post in plain white envelopes. 
Ulster Bank wrote to Mr J several times to explain it would restrict Ss account unless he 
took certain actions. He did not take those actions, and so Ulster Bank restricted the 
account. I see nothing unfair or unreasonable about what Ulster Bank has done, and so I do 
not uphold this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mr J is worried this situation is likely to recur. Ulster Bank has said that it 
will not commit to using Recorded/Special Delivery, nor will it commit to sending all 
correspondence in branded envelopes. It may choose to use those methods for some of its 
correspondence, just as it may choose to call or email Mr J on occasions, but it will not 
commit to using any particular form of communication at all times. That means that if Mr J 
continues to refuse to open unbranded envelopes, he may miss further communications 
from Ulster Bank. But I have seen nothing to suggest that Mr J is unable to open unbranded 
envelopes; he has simply made the decision not to do so  and so I see nothing unfair about 
Ulster Banks actions. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc 
(trading as Ulster Bank).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman