DRN-2431206
The complaint
Mr M complained about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited handled a claim he 
made on his mobile phone insurance.
What happened
Mr M has gadget insurance with Assurant, linked to his bank account. In March 2020 he 
damaged his iPhone XR and he made a claim for accidental damage. He paid the excess 
and Assurant arranged for a delivery driver to collect his phone and deliver a replacement 
iPhone XR. Assurant say the phone Mr M returned was an iPhone 6 and not the one he 
claimed for. So, it sent him a letter to ask him to send the correct phone and warned him it 
would blacklist the replacement phone and the phone hed claimed for if he didnt. Mr M 
thought the letter was a scam so ignored it. Assurant then blocked both phones. Mr M wasnt 
aware Assurant had blocked the replacement phone and he returned that to Assurant for 
repair as it had stopped working. Assurant then explained the situation to Mr M and returned 
the damaged iPhone 6 to him. It later returned the replacement iPhone XR to him as well, 
although it was still blocked. 
Mr M said hed given the delivery driver the correct phone and hed never seen the iPhone 6 
before. He said the driver must have swapped the phones over. Assurant said there was no 
evidence of that and said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy 
by blocking the replacement phone. It said it would remain blocked until it received the 
damaged iPhone XR hed claimed for. It also said it wouldnt return the excess as it had 
fulfilled the claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of his policy. And said it 
wouldnt be able to proceed with any other claims or warranty process until it received the 
damaged iPhone XR. Mr M wasnt happy and brought his complaint to this service. He said 
he wanted his replacement phone unblocked.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint as she didnt think Assurant had done 
anything wrong. She said there was no evidence the phones were switched by the delivery 
driver and Assurant had blocked the replacement iPhone XR and kept the excess in line with 
the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view. He questioned the delivery process and said 
he didnt think it was fair he was being treated as being guilty when there was no evidence 
hed handed over the wrong phone. As Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy says, under What you need to know about the 
claims process,
Damaged devices and accessories, parts and materials replaced by us shall become the 
property of the insurer. In the event that we have already provided you with a replacement 
device as part of the claims process and you do not return the exact device that has been 
claimed for then we will take steps to recover the device which we have provided as part of 
the settlement process, or an equivalent cash value. We will also take action to bar the 
replacement device in order to prevent it from being used.
So, in light of the above, I think its fair and reasonable for Assurant to block a replacement 
device if the policy holder doesnt return the device thats been claimed for. The issue in this 
case is that Mr M is adamant he did return the device he claimed for (the damaged iPhone 
XR) while Assurant said it received a different device, a damaged iPhone 6. The difficulty 
here is theres little evidence to support either contention. Mr M took a photograph of the 
damaged iPhone XR but it isnt date stamped and doesnt provide any proof he gave that 
phone to the delivery driver in exchange for the replacement phone. 
For its part, Assurant provided evidence of the exchange of phones and also explained the 
process of exchanging devices. It said once a claim like this has been accepted, the 
replacement phone is placed in a sealed bag with the delivery address on it. It also puts a 
return bag with its address printed on a sticky label and puts that in the sealed bag. When 
the delivery driver arrives at the relevant address the driver opens the package and gives the 
replacement phone to the customer. The driver then takes a picture of the front of the phone 
being returned to Assurant and seals it in the return packaging.
The evidence shows the exchange was made at 1.03pm on the day in question and the 
photograph taken is of an iPhone 6 (or at least a phone that has the characteristics of an 
iPhone 6 and not those of an iPhone XR). The photograph itself isnt date stamped so I cant 
be sure it was taken at the same time the exchange was made. 
Mr M has said the delivery driver must have swapped the phones over. But I dont think 
theres enough evidence to say that. I accept theres no evidence of him handing over the 
wrong phone to Assurant either. But my role is to consider whether Assurant acted fairly and 
reasonably in light of the evidence available. And, on balance, I think it has. It received a 
device that was different from the device Mr M had claimed for. The delivery evidence 
indicates the device collected by the delivery driver was an iPhone 6, not the device claimed 
for. And I dont think it was unreasonable therefore for Assurant to first warn Mr M it would 
block the replacement phone if he didnt return the phone hed claimed for, and then block it 
when the phone wasnt returned. As Mr M made a claim under his policy and Assurant 
accepted it, I also think it was fair for Assurant not to refund the excess he paid.
Although I recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask 
Assurant to do anything differently.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman