DRN-2310900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined their 
claim on their building warranty policy. They also complain the policy was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N purchased a new build property in 2013. Their property is covered by a ten-
year NHBC building warranty policy. During years three to ten, the policy covers physical 
damage caused by a defect  subject to the policy terms and conditions. 
In 2020, Mr and Mrs N made a claim for cracking to the plasterboard above the stairs; for 
cracking between the wall and stairs; and for a loose bannister at the top of the stairs. 
NHBC considered photos of the damage provided by Mr and Mrs N, but it declined the claim. 
It says the cracking is consistent with shrinkage between different materials, and this is 
excluded by the policy; and whilst it accepts the loose bannister has been caused by a 
defect, it says the repair costs wouldnt reach the minimum claim value.
Mr and Mrs N complained about the claim decision. They also complained the policy was 
mis-sold to them, and they asked how much they had paid for the cover and about the 
commission the seller received. NHBC reiterated its claim decision; and it explained it 
doesnt sell policies to homeowners, but rather, they are taken out by the builder.
Mr and Mrs N contacted our service. They said when buying their property, the price of the 
NHBC policy wasnt discussed, and they werent told about the commission NHBC paid to 
the builder. Mr and Mrs N referred to a Supreme Court judgement about the disclosure of 
commission during the sale of payment protection insurance. They also said they werent 
given details about the policy exclusions or the minimum claim value at the point of sale. 
Mr and Mrs N also explained they didnt consider the cracking to be from the settlement of 
materials; and in terms of the loose bannister, they thought that basing the minimum claim 
value on NHBCs estimated repair costs was unfair. This was because they didnt believe 
they could get the work done for the rates available to NHBC.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs Ns complaint, but he thought the claim had 
been fairly declined. He also explained why the principles established by the Supreme Court 
judgement werent relevant to a complaint against NHBC. Because Mr and Mrs N remained 
unhappy with the outcome, their complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In respect of the cracking, the policy excludes: shrinkage, thermal movement or movement 
between different types of materials, and cosmetic damage such as minor cracking. NHBC 
says the cracking is consistent with shrinkage, and although Mr and Mrs N disagree, they 
havent provided anything that contradicts NHBCs conclusions. NHBC has explained to
Mr and Mrs N that if they provide information which shows the cause of the cracking is 
something which isnt excluded, it will give the matter further consideration. 
I havent seen anything that leads me to believe NHBCs assessment was wrong, and its for 
Mr and Mrs N to show the damage is covered by their policy. So far, they have only provided 
photos. So, I cant reasonably decide NHBC has unfairly declined this aspect of their claim.
 
In respect of the loose bannister, the policy terms explain the repair cost needs to meet the 
minimum claim value of £1,200 plus inflation. NHBC says this equated to £1,629 when the 
claim was made. The terms also explain the repair cost is the amount NHBC would be 
charged if it arranged the work.
NHBC has produced a schedule of works for the loose bannister using its agreed contractor 
network rates. This comes to £358. Whilst I appreciate the point Mr and Mrs N make about 
them not being able to get the repairs done themselves for that amount, NHBC has 
calculated the minimum claim value in accordance with the policy terms. 
NHBC has provided its schedule of works. I havent seen anything that leads me to believe 
its schedule doesnt account for all the necessary repairs, and Mr and Mrs N havent 
provided any quotes themselves to contradict NHBCs schedule. Therefore, I cant 
reasonably decide NHBC has treated Mr and Mrs N unfairly here.
In respect of the policy sale, the policy wasnt sold to Mr and Mrs N. The policy was bought 
by the builder, and the builder provided it to Mr and Mrs N when they bought their property. 
Although the builder may have passed on the cost of the policy through the propertys sale 
price, Mr and Mrs N werent sold the policy in the conventional sense. Builders often buy 
building warranty policies to pass to their customers, to offer peace of mind about the 
standards the property has been built to and the support available if issues arise.
So, given Mr and Mrs N werent sold the policy, there isnt anything about the sale for me to 
consider  commission or otherwise. If Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the information they 
were given about the policy when they bought their property, thats a matter between them 
and the builder. I cant reasonably decide NHBC is responsible for how the builder 
positioned the cover to Mr and Mrs N.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs N. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman