DRN-4446488
The complaint
Ms J complains about the overdraft arrangements she held with Lloyds Bank PLC, which 
she says led to her unfairly incurring charges. 
What happened
In August 2022 Ms J complained to Lloyds Bank about lending it had granted her over the 
years. The lending comprised a current account overdraft, credit card limits, and personal 
loans. She said that the lending was inappropriate and had caused her problems with 
repayment, leading to fees and charges over several years. The credit card and loan 
arrangements are the subject of separate complaints to us.
In respect of the current account overdraft, Lloyds Bank said it would not be responding to 
any concerns Ms J had that fell outside the time limits set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). It acknowledged it should have taken action in October 2017 to review the approved 
overdraft, noting there were signs Ms J was struggling with her finances. It refunded charges 
and interest backdated to that point, also paying interest on that refund. The total amount 
Lloyds Bank refunded Ms J was £549.48.
Our investigator didnt think we could deal with the aspect of Ms Js complaint that related to 
Lloyds Banks decision to approve the overdraft limit. This was on the basis that the lending 
decision was more than six years before Ms J complained, and that she ought reasonably to 
have been aware she had cause for complaint more than three years before she made that 
complaint. The investigator thought Lloyds Banks refund fair in the circumstances, and 
didnt require it to take any further action.
Ms J didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. She said that after making further 
enquiries in relation to her credit card complaint wed said that we could consider earlier 
events, and that this should also apply to her overdraft complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules can be found in the DISP section of the FCA Handbook, which is available on the 
FCAs website. Those rules include time limits that affect whether I can deal with some or all 
aspects of a complaint.
Where a firm hasnt consented to us looking into a complaint, I generally cant do so if its 
referred to us more than six years after the event. Or, if its later, more than three years since 
the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) they had 
cause for complaint.
From what I can see, the banks decisions to provide Ms J with an overdraft, and the limit 
attached to that overdraft, were made prior to August 2016. Her account statements show 
the overdraft limit in place at that time. This was more than six years prior to Ms J raising her 
complaint with Lloyds Bank in August 2022. So I can only deal with this aspect if Lloyds 
Bank consents, or if the point at which Ms J ought reasonably to have become aware she 
had cause for complaint.
Lloyds Bank hasnt consented. Ive thought about the circumstances that led to Ms Js 
complaint. I know she feels she should be asked about the point at which she became aware 
she had cause for complaint. But that isnt the only test. The time limit rule requires that I 
also consider when a complainant ought reasonably to have become aware they had cause 
for complaint. If this was any earlier than August 2019, then the complaint hasnt been 
brought in time.
That test is an objective one. It is based on the legal concept of what the reasonable person 
of ordinary prudence would do in the same or similar circumstances. I cant fairly depart 
from the legal position, which is that the test is based not on what happened to Ms J as an 
individual, but what that reasonable person in her position would have done.
Ms J was making full use of her £3,600 overdraft limit from at least August 2016, and 
possibly earlier. It would have been clear that the bank was charging fees and interest 
associated with the overdraft  these were detailed on the account statements. Although 
salary credits were putting the account back in credit each month, the impact on Ms Js 
financial position was apparent. It wouldnt have required any particular knowledge or 
expertise to have realised this, or that the overdraft limit Lloyds Bank had approved was a 
contributing factor.
With this in mind, I find the point at which Ms J ought reasonably to have become aware he 
had cause for complaint about the overdraft limit approved by Lloyds Bank was reached 
some time (and possibly some significant time) before August 2019. Its entirely conceivable 
that this is a different point from the point at which Ms J ought reasonably to have become 
aware she had cause to complain about other lending undertaken by the bank. I conclude 
that this aspect of the complaint was referred to us outside the time limit in DISP 2.8.2(2)R.
Ive noted that Lloyds Bank has accepted that by October 2017 it ought to have become 
aware that Ms Js financial position was such that it should have reviewed her overdraft limit 
and taken steps to reduce it. The bank has refunded interest and charges since that point. In 
my view, thats a reasonable way to address those aspects of the complaint that have been 
brought to us within the time limit.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here, Ive concluded the following:
I cant dealt with this complaint insofar as it relates to Lloyds Bank PLCs overdraft 
lending decisions prior to August 2016
I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to take any further action to settle those aspects of 
Ms Js complaint that have been brought in time 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman