DRN-2722341
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) has failed to put right 
defects with their home.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs F discovered a number of issues with their home, which was built in 1997 and 
benefits from a NHBC warranty. The issues included tiles lifting on the ground floor, areas of 
the tarmac driveway sinking, and drainage problems. A number of other problems have also 
since been identified, but Ill focus my decision on those which I can consider and which 
were raised with NHBC before its final response letter.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that NHBC should replace all 
the floor tiles, and investigate the cause of the driveway damage further, but that it didnt 
need to do anything in relation to the drainage problems.
Both parties disagreed and so the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
NHBC has agreed to accept our investigators recommendations about replacing all the floor 
tiles. So I wont go into detail on this point, except to say that I agree there was a defect 
covered under the policy (as it was identified in both experts reports that there were no 
expansion joints and a lack of decoupling layer) and that all the ground floor tiles should be 
replaced using a separation membrane or expansion joints in order to ensure a lasting and 
effective repair.
Mr and Mrs F say a neighbour of theirs has been offered a higher settlement figure for 
similar issues with their tiling. However its correct that each claim should be considered on 
its own individual merits and its not for us to look into other customers cases, even if those 
are similar. In any event, if Mr and Mrs F choose to accept this decision, then NHBC will be 
legally bound to replace all the tiles. And I hope this will reassure Mr and Mrs F that their 
property value should not be affected.
NHBC declined the claim for the sunken driveway. But Im not sure its done enough to 
investigate this. It said it carried out a drain survey and this showed there was no defect with 
the drainage system. So they concluded the defect was with the driveway itself which is not 
covered under the policy. 
I agree that the driveway isnt an area covered under the policy, as the policy states the only 
areas which are covered for defects are:
a) foundations;
b) load-bearing walls;
c) non load-bearing partition walls;
d) wet-applied wall plaster;
e) external cladding, curtain walling, external render and external vertical tile hanging;
f) load-bearing parts of the roof;
g) roof coverings;
h) ceilings;
i) load-bearing parts of the floors;
j) staircases and internal floor decking and screeds where these fail to support normal loads;
k) retaining walls necessary for the structural stability of the house, bungalow, flat or 
maisonette, its garage or other permanent outbuilding;
l) double-glazing or triple-glazing panes to external windows and doors;
m) below-ground drainage for which you are responsible.
The above doesnt include driveways, so Im satisfied this isnt an area covered by the 
policy. However, NHBC hasnt been able to adequately demonstrate the likely cause of the 
driveway sinking in two visible areas as shown in the experts report. The report suggests 
that either the sub base below the tarmacked areas in and around two rainwater gullies may 
not have been properly compacted, resulting in the dips. Or it suggests its possible that 
rainwater drainage connections in these locations may be defective, resulting in the sub 
base material washing away. This can occur if a pipe under the driveway has leaked, 
causing the ground to become saturated and causing the sub base to deteriorate and leave 
dips in the driveway.
NHBC says its drainage survey confirmed that underground drains are not causing the 
problem with the driveway. And it says the rainwater pipes mentioned in the experts report 
arent below ground drainage, so arent covered under the policy. But the report says the 
issue could be with one of the rainwater drainage connections and its possible that one of 
those may be defective and may be underground. NHBC hasnt responded to our 
investigators queries regarding why it would not consider any of the rainwater pipe 
connections to be below ground drainage. So I think NHBC needs to investigate further to 
rule out this cause of the damage before it can safely say this isnt covered under the policy.
In relation to the claim for faulty drains at the property causing a foul smell, I agree with our 
investigator that the cost of the repair is below the minimum claims value, so I dont think 
NHBC has been unreasonable in declining this aspect of the claim.
Mr and Mrs F have raised additional points that cannot be considered as part of this 
complaint, but they are free to raise these issues with NHBC directly if they havent already. 
And if they are dissatisfied with NHBCs response, then they will be able to refer a further 
complaint to this service subject to the usual rules and time limits.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr and Mrs F, NHBC must replace all the tiles on the ground floor of 
the property using separation membrane or expansion joints to ensure a lasting and effective 
repair. 
It should also further investigate the cause of the dips in the driveway, in line with the 
suggestions made by Mr and Mrs Fs experts report.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require National House-Building Council 
to put things right for Mr and Mrs F as Ive set out above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman