DRN-3711230
The complaint
Ms B, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
What happened
Ms B was advanced 6 home collected loans between November 2017 and January 2021.
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 13/11/2017 09/03/2018 20 £15.00
2 £200.00 22/12/2017 01/11/2018 33 £10.00
3 £200.00 09/03/2018 08/11/2018 20 £15.00
4 £200.00 23/11/2018 31/10/2019 20 £15.00
gap in lending
5 £100.00 31/07/2020 19/01/2021 22 £7.00
6 £100.00 19/01/2021 outstanding 22 £7.00
Ms B had some problems repaying loan 6 and Morses has told the Financial Ombudsman
Service the balance was sold to a third-party collection agency with an outstanding balance
of £70.
The weekly repayment column in the table above is the cost per week per loan. Where
loans overlapped the cost per week was increased, for example when loans 1 and 2 were
running at the same time Ms Bs weekly commitment to Morses was £25.
Following Ms Bs complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going
to uphold the complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks before it granted
these loans. Ms Bs representative didnt agree with the outcome and referred the complaint
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and based on the two lending chains she wasnt able
to uphold the complaint because in her view, there was nothing in the information Ms B 
provided that may have led Morses to have declined the lending.
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment.
Ms Bs representative told us she wasnt agreeing with the proposed outcome, it said
verbatim:
Our client does not Agree (sic) with the outcome as she was struggling Financially 
(sic) at the time and also could not Afford (sic) the Loans she was given this is also 
why she provided her credit file.
She would like this to go for a final decision
The adjudicator went back to Ms Bs representative to say that when considering the
complaint, she had looked at the credit report provided by Morses. As these comments didnt
change her mind, she passed the complaint for a decision.
I then issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to partially 
uphold Ms Bs complaint about loans 3 and 4. A copy of my provisional findings follows this 
in italics and smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms B could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Ms Bs
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms B. These factors include:
Ms B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms B.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms B could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms B was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Bs complaint.
Loans 1  2
Morses carried out similar checks when it granted loans 1 and 2.Ms B declared she had around £230 weekly income for both loans and outgoings of between
£106 and £140. Leave between £90 and £124 per week disposable income to afford her
largest weekly repayment of £25.
Based solely, on the income and expenditure it was reasonable for Morses to have believed
that Ms B would be able to afford the repayments.
Morses has also said for the first loan only, it carried out a credit search and it has provided
the Financial Ombudsman Service with the results. I appreciate that Ms Bs representatives
have provided a screen shot of the credit file data that it says wouldve been apparent to
Morses at the time but based on what Morses has provided it didnt see the same sort of
data.
It is worth saying that there is no requirement within the regulations at the time to have
carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific standard. But what Morses couldnt do
is carry out a credit search and then not react to any concerning information that it may have
seen.
Looking at the credit file data provided by Morses Im satisfied that while it was aware of
some adverse information such as a default. It wasnt in my view sufficient for Morses to
either decline the application or to have prompted it to have carried out furthermore in-depth
checks.
Based on the information Ms B declared Morses couldve been confident she was in a
position to afford the contractual repayments she was due to make for these loans. Given
this was in the early part of the lending relationship, I think the checks that Morses did were
proportionate and it didnt need to do any further checks before agreeing to the loan.
Im therefore not upholding Ms Bs complaint about loans 1 and 2.
Loan 3
For this loan, Morses carried out the same sort of checks as it had done so for loans 1 and
2.
However, when this loan was approved, Ms B hadnt yet repaid loan 2 and so Morses
needed to consider the total commitment per week from Ms B which was £25.
Ms B declared her expenditure to be £108 per week  and this included the repayment to
Morses for loan 2. So, this loan may have looked affordable to Morses.
But there appears to have been a significant change of circumstance before this loan was
approved, Ms Bs income had now reduced to around £137 per week. This was around £100
down compared to her declared expenditure for loan 1 and 2.
In addition, for this loan, Morses has shown that Ms Bs income was likely checked with a
credit reference agency for its accuracy. So, on balance, Morses must have felt this was an
accurate income for Ms Bs income at the time.
This loan had a weekly repayment of £15, so after taking account of her income, expenditure
and the loan repayments into account this left Ms B with only £14 per week to cover any
other costs that Ms B may have had. Which I dont think was enough.
I say this because the credit report generated at loan one, showed that Ms B had
outstanding credit commitments that needed to be repaid, and according to the expenditure
information gathered, she declared she didnt have any credit commitments. To me, this
doesnt seem plausible.
So, while £14 may have been enough to afford the loan repayments, I dont think given what
Morses knew about Ms Bs income and her missing expenditure that this loan shouldve
been granted, because I think there was a real risk that Ms B couldnt repay this in asustainable manner.
So, Im intending to uphold Ms Bs complaint about this loan.
Loan 4
Again, the same sort of checks were carried out, and this time Morses believed that Ms B
had around £133 per week in disposable income in order to meet the cost of this loan per
week of £15.
Based on the information Ms B provided, Morses may have felt that she would be in a
position to afford the loan repayments she was committed to making and this may well be
the case.
However, Ms B had had, in my view significant repayment problems while making
repayments to loans 2 and 3.
Loan 2 was due to be repaid over 33 weeks whereas it actually took Ms B 45 weeks to settle
this loan. Indeed, looking at the statement of account I can see periods of time, such as
September 2018 when very little payments were made (£11)  nowhere near the combined
weekly repayment of £25.
Loan 3 shouldve been repaid over 20 weeks but it actually took Ms B 35 weeks to repay,
almost 75% longer than planned.
Loan 4 was also taken out shortly loans 2 and 3 were repaid and Ms B returned to borrow
the same amount again. Ms B had demonstrated to Morses that she had struggled to repay
loans of £200, yet only a matter of weeks later, Morses provided further lender of the same
sum to be repaid over 20 weeks.
Given this, I think there was a real risk Ms B would struggle to repay this loan. Indeed, this is
exactly what happened. It took her 49 weeks to settle the loan, which is more than twice as
long as planned.
There warning signs were there in her repayment history and Morses, for whatever reasons,
appear to have ignored this and lent to her again without considering the impact this loan
would have on her or considering whether further checks were required.
Given, this loan was obviously not sustainable for Ms B from the outset Im intending to
uphold Ms Bs complaint about this loan as well.
Loans 5 and 6
As the adjudicator pointed out, loan 5 was the first loan in a new lending relationship. This
means I think it was reasonable for Morses to have treated Ms Bs application afresh and in
effect treat her as a new customer. This therefore has implications for the level and type and
checks that I think it needed to do.
Ms B returned for these loans after around a nine-month break, and these loans were half
the amount that she had borrowed at the end of the first lending chain. This, along with the
break had led me to conclude that Morses carried out a proportionate check for these loans
and the information it gathered suggested Ms B was in a position to afford the repayments
for these loans.
For these loans Morses carried out similar checks as it had done so on the previous loans. It
received information from Ms B about her income and expenditure, and after looking at this
Morses was aware she had at least £163 per week in disposable income. This was more
than sufficient to be able to afford the largest repayment of £7 per week.
Given it was early on in the new lending relationship it was reasonable for Morses to haverelied on the information Ms B provided and there wasnt anything, as far as I can see that
wouldve prompted Morses to have either declined these loans or asked for further
information from Ms B.
Im, therefore, intending to not uphold Ms Bs complaint about these two loans. But overall, I
am intending to uphold Ms Bs complaint about loans 3 and 4 and Ive outlined below what
Morses needs to do in order to put things right.
Response to the provisional decision 
Both Ms B and Morses were asked to provide any further information they wanted 
considering in response to the provisional decision as soon as possible, but no later than 
22 September 2022. 
Ms Bs representative responded and agreed with the provisional decision, it said 
(verbatim)
We have received your decision and we will Accept the upholding of Loans 3 And 4 
we will advise our client of this.
Morses didnt acknowledge or respond to the provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for my consideration (indeed Ms Bs 
representative has accepted the findings I had reached). I therefore see no reason to depart 
from the findings that I reached in the provisional decision. 
So, I still dont think Morses shouldve provided loans 3 and 4 for the reasons Ive outlined in 
the provisional decision. 
I am therefore upholding Ms Bs complaint in part, and Ive outlined below what Morses 
needs to do in order to put things right for her. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might
have happened had it not lent loans 3 and 4 to Ms B, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair orreasonable to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses has already accepted that loan two shouldnt have been provided to Ms B. But for
completeness and in line with what it has already agreed Ive outlined below what it has
agreed to do.
Morses shouldnt have advanced loans 3 and 4.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debt Morses should buy it back if Morses is able to do so
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debt back then Morses
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses can use any refund due under A and B to offset the outstanding balance due 
on loan 6. But it can only do this, it is in a position to buy the debt back (if sold) from 
the third party. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Ms B. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Ms B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in 
relation to loans 3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Bs 
complaint in part.
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms B as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman