DRN-3659880
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard increased the credit limit 
on his credit card when he couldnt afford the repayments. He also said that Barclays failed 
to take account of his gambling problems, though he used it for gambling.
What happened
Mr W took out a credit card with Barclays in June 2006, with an initial credit limit of £4,300.  
Barclays altered the credit limit on Mr Ws credit card as follows:
September 2006 decrease to £4,140.
August 2008 increase to £5,640.
March 2009 decrease to £4,200.
February 2010 increase to £5,200.
July 2014 increase to £7,700.
March 2015 increase to £8,700.
February 2016 decrease to £6,050.
January 2017 decrease to £4,600.
Mr W complained that the credit limit increases were irresponsible. He said there were a lot 
of irregular high cost transactions on his account. In particular he was spending thousands 
on gambling over dozens of transactions. He feels that it should have been clear from the 
management of his account that he had had a gambling/money management problem for 
many years. As a result his borrowing has put him in ever increasing debt.
Barclays advised that it had limited information concerning the credit limit increases before 
July 2014. It can say that Mr W passed the required checks. It was aware that he had used 
the card for gambling but there wasnt anything to indicate that he had been doing so 
irresponsibly. He managed his card well and paid the required payment each month. With 
regard to the July 2014 and March 2015 increases, Mr W met its lending criteria and passed 
all the required checks at the time.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W 
challenged this and pointed out that he had been successful in complaints about his bank for 
lending him money when they would have been aware of his gambling problem. He asked 
that we review his bank statements 
Our investigator did this but said that although gambling transactions appeared on his bank 
statements Barclays wouldnt have been aware of this as there was no indication in the 
checks it carried out that would have alerted it to consider such statements. 
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision and the matter has been passed to me for further 
consideration,.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Barclays complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr W 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr W would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Barclays ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Ws 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
In this particular case I have to consider whether Barclays should have taken more action in 
respect of Mr Ws gambling problems. I have to take into account that although there have 
been rules about irresponsible lending for many years, requirements for banks or credit card 
companies to offer support have only really been around since the Consumer Credit (CONC) 
Rules first issued by the FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) in 2014. This is shown by the 
fact that a number of businesses started offering to block any gambling transactions on 
current accounts. And that from April 2020 credit cards can no longer be used for gambling 
transactions. However before 2014 there would have been a general duty to take account of 
vulnerable customers.
I must bear in mind also that as Mr Ws complaint concerns matters that are up to sixteen 
years old there is limited information that Barclays can provide as to its affordability checks 
before the 2014 and 2015 increases in credit limit, and in respect of Mr Ws application for a 
credit card. 
Ill deal with the application for a card, and the credit limit increases and decreases in turn. 
Where I refer to dates of transactions on the card, this is either the date of the statement or 
the date of the transaction.
application June 2006
According to Barclays information, Mr W had an annual salary of £18,000, and two credit 
cards, one with a nil balance and the other with a balance of £2,395. The limited information 
available shows his credit card payments were up to date. He had no other loans or credit, 
so he was found to be suitable for a card with a limit of £4,300. Mr W has provided copy 
bank statements though none go back as far as this. I understand that Mr W had been 
gambling and hed used his other credit card for this. But as the evidence from Barclays 
shows that his credit card account was in order and his bank account wasnt overdrawn, it 
would only be if the bank account was continually overdrawn that we might have expected 
Barclays to do further checks. As it is, I dont think Barclays could have been expected to 
know about Mr Ws gambling problems before issuing the credit card.decrease in September 2006
In August 2006 Mr W used the card to carry out £950 of gambling transactions, with a lot of 
cash withdrawals as well. In September he had £520 gambling transactions. Barclays 
reduced his credit limit which effectively meant he wouldnt have been able to use the card 
unless he paid back substantial amount. I assume that this reduction was a direct reaction to 
his use of the card in August and September 2006. And it appears to have been a 
reasonable step to take. Barclays didnt take any other action at the time, though as Ive said 
there wasnt any specific duty for businesses to be alert to gambling problems then. Mr W 
kept his card within limits.
increase in August 2008
This was an increase to £5,640 from the previous reduced limit of £4,140. Again there is only 
limited information concerning this increase. Though I can see from Mr Ws statements that 
he had kept his account in order. He had used his account for gambling but only for small 
amounts. The maximum he spent on gambling in any one month was £195 in June 2007, 
though usually it was much less than this. I dont think that it would have been evident he 
had a gambling problem. And as his account was in order and he passed the credit checks 
(though appreciating no detail of these is now available) I have to say from the evidence 
available that this increase appeared to be affordable.
decrease in March 2009
This was from £4,640 to £4,200. Mr W incurred £1,600 in September and £3,000 in October 
2008 in gambling transactions meaning he used up most of his increased credit limit. Its 
difficult to see what Barclays could have done at this stage. Mr W was still within his credit 
limit and kept paying the monthly payments. In March 2009, Barclays took action to 
decrease his credit limit, which I think was a reasonable step to take. 
increase in February 2010
This was from £4,200 to £5,200. Again theres limited information, but it appears that Mr Ws 
accounts were in order. And he hadnt used the card for gambling after October 2008 until 
November 2009 (£75) and January 2010 (£150). Though I do note that the month after this 
increase Mr W spent £720 on gambling. If Mr W was using his other credit card or his bank 
account for gambling theres no evidence this would have come to Barclays attention. From 
the limited evidence Ive seen, I think this increase was reasonable.
increase in July 2014
This was a big increase, to £7,700. But since the previous increase Mr W had been using his 
credit card very little and there were very few gambling transactions, the maximum amount 
in any one month being £115. The credit checks showed Mr W had kept up to date with his 
loans/credit. The credit bureau had assessed Mr Ws risk of default at 0.52. Barclays says a 
consumer is appropriate for an increase if this score is below 6%, In addition he had 
maintained his account well. With little evidence of recent gambling I think this decision was 
reasonable.
increase in March 2015
This was a further £1,000, to £8,700. Mr W used his account for gambling once in 2011, 
twice in 2013 and once in 2014, in June, for £50.  Again the credit a check showed Mr W 
had kept up-to-date with his loans/credit. His risk of default was assessed at 0.38%. So 
again I think this was reasonable.decrease in February 2016
This was to £6,050. it would appear to be a direct result of Mr W using his card in January 
2016 to fund £500 of betting and a substantial sum on gaming (counted as cash 
transactions), bringing his balance up from £1,029 to £5,228. Though before that he hadnt 
used his card for gambling. It has to be a judgement call on the part of Barclays whether it 
should have approached Mr W about his gambling. I think it took the right decision to reduce 
his limit and as he hadnt spent, on this card, substantial sums on gambling since 2010, I 
cant say that Barclays should have taken any other steps
decrease in January 2017
This was to £4,600. I note that Mr W had spent £215 on gambling in February 2016 and 
used the card for this in July (£100) October (£50), November (£50) and December (£500). I 
assume it is the last transaction which triggered this decrease which again I think was a 
reasonable step to take.
after 2017
Mr W continued to use his card sporadically for gambling and/or gaming. The highest 
amount used for gambling was for £391 in November 2018, and this was the last time he 
used the card for gambling. From April 2020 he could no longer use the card for gambling in 
any event.
overall
Looking at the way he used his card, I do note that Mr W used his card for gambling 
substantial amounts of money from time to time. But I dont think that the amount of times he 
spent large amounts justified any intervention other than to take the sensible precaution of 
decreasing his credit limit. I appreciate that Mr W did use his card for cash transactions but 
those wouldnt automatically lead to Barclays thinking he was gambling too much. And in 
any event over the years he mostly kept his card within limits and made the minimum 
payments or more. I understand that he was using his other credit card and his bank account 
for gambling. But there wasnt anything in the checks Barclays did to indicate that it should 
have looked at Mr Ws financial circumstances in more detail.
Bearing in mind the lack of information before 2014 (and Barclays isnt required to retain 
information beyond six years) and the evidence produced by Barclays and Mr W I think that 
Barclays made reasonable decisions in increasing (and decreasing) his credit limit.
In respect of Mr Ws point that he successfully complained to his Bank about his loans, I 
think the way current and credit card accounts are used are quite different. As he would 
have used his bank account for everyday spending and his salary would have been paid into 
that account, it would be easier to detect spending patterns which might mean he wasnt 
managing his finances well. And the other credit card he had was issued by his bank so it 
would have had access to that in making its lending decisions.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 Ray Lawley
Ombudsman