DRN-3500207
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) did not reimburse the money she 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, Miss C was approached on social media by a well-known influencer Ill call 
W with an investment opportunity. W had previously set up or been involved in the setting up 
of other e-commerce businesses and he and his partner, who Ill refer to as M, had big social 
media followings and had worked with credible brands. Once Miss C agreed to invest, she 
was added to a chat group with numerous other investors. They were told not to share any 
details of the investment with others. 
Miss C paid £1,000 in two payments in July 2020 to invest in four start-up companies that W 
was setting up. For an investment of £250 in each company Miss C was offered a 0.4% 
shareholding per company and 2% dividends. When the companies were set up M was 
listed as the director of them.  
W later advised investors that hed spent the £100,000 theyd jointly invested and then 
stopped communicating with them. Miss C says other investors have been reimbursed by 
their banks. She reported the scam to Monzo on 16 May 2021. 
Monzo didnt agree to provide Miss C with a refund and said that Miss C was involved in a 
civil dispute and so the CRM Code doesnt apply. It contacted the bank that received Miss 
Cs funds the day she reported the scam but was advised that no funds remained. 
Our investigation so far
Initially the investigator agreed that this is a civil dispute but after reviewing additional 
evidence was persuaded Miss C was the victim of a scam. Evidence from the police and the 
bank that received Miss Cs funds strongly indicated that Miss C was the victim of a scam. In 
addition to this, he said there is no evidence that any of the four companies that Miss C and 
others were investing in have ever traded and shares were only allocated when scam 
reports emerged. It has also become clear that there are many other victims of the same 
scam and that other banks are satisfied their customers are the victims of a scam.
The investigator felt that Miss C should receive a full refund under the CRM Code, together 
with interest. He said Miss C had a reasonable basis for believing she was making payments 
to a legitimate payee because:
- Although Miss C found out about the investment on a social media platform, the 
influencer involved was crowdfunding to launch new businesses, so the concept 
wasnt unreasonable.
- Miss C had followed the influencers involved for some time and they had a track 
record in setting up successful new businesses.
- The rate of return wasnt unreasonable.
- Although Miss C had no paperwork, she went through an application process. 
Monzo didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
- The CRM Code wasnt set up to insure people against bad investment decisions.
- The conclusion the investigator reached puts customers in a position where theyll 
gladly take a risk knowing they will get their money back.
- Miss C didnt complete any checks before making the payments. Had she done so 
shed have found out about previous issues (I assume Monzo is referring to the fact 
the new companies were set up in Ms name, probably because W had been 
declared bankrupt) and the companies hadnt been set up for investors. Miss C also 
didnt have a contract.   
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should reimburse some or all of the money Miss C lost in line with the provisions of the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code (CRM Code) it has 
agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss C from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud
 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. The exception set out in the 
CRM Code that is relevant to this case is:
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
Civil dispute or scam?
Monzo didnt consider Miss Cs case under the CRM Code because it said she had a civil 
dispute with W and hadnt been scammed. The CRM Code only applies to victims of a scam. 
After carefully considering all the evidence Im persuaded that Miss C was the victim of a 
scam. I have set out below why.
- The police have provided evidence that concludes that its more likely than not Miss 
C and others are the victims of a scam. 
- The bank that received Miss Cs funds has provided evidence of many other scam 
reports that are very similar in nature to Miss Cs. 
- Once Miss C and others joined the group chat, they were told not to share any details 
of the investment with family and friends. If the investment was genuine there would be no reason to keep it a secret. 
- Although W promised Miss C (and other investors) a contract this didnt materialise. If 
the investment was genuine then contracts would be supplied. 
- W wasnt a director of any of the companies Miss C invested in. 
- W disclosed to various investors that all of the £100,000 invested had been spent 
and later blocked Miss C and other investors from social media and stopped 
responding to messages. These arent the actions of someone who is offering a 
genuine investment.  
- Although all four companies were incorporated in July 2020 shares werent allocated 
until a year later. This seems to coincide with complaints that were made by Miss C 
and others to their banks. 
Having decided that the CRM Code applies Ive gone on to consider whether Miss C had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were for a genuine investment. 
Did Miss C have a reasonable basis for believing the payment she made was legitimate?
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Miss C had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. Having done so, I am not persuaded that 
Miss C failed to take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Im satisfied that Monzo hasnt shown that Miss C lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
Miss C had followed W and M on social media for five years. Each of them had a 
large number of followers. At the time Miss C reported the scam to Monzo in May 
2021 she said W had nearly 27,000 followers and M 192,000 followers. This made 
Miss C feel they were both credible.  
W had launched successful businesses in the past and M was affiliated to large 
brands. These factors reasonably led Miss C to believe they could successfully 
launch further genuine businesses and build on their success. 
This was a different type of investment that was more akin to crowdfunding and so 
attracting investors through a social media platform didnt seem out of the ordinary. 
Miss C was investing in start-up businesses so the usual checks that might be 
completed when investing funds werent relevant to this investment. The businesses 
werent incorporated at the time Miss C made the first, and larger, payment and so a 
Companies House check wouldnt apply. 
Miss C wasnt being offered an unrealistic rate of return that might reasonably have 
led to concern.
When Miss C made the first payment, she was provided with a message that said 
she was sending funds to someone Monzo couldnt verify. I dont consider this 
confirmation of payee unable to match result affected Miss Cs reasonable basis for 
belief. The wording wasnt specific to investment scams, didnt explain the essential 
features of such a scam or of social media scams and didnt provide Miss C with any advice about how to avoid falling victim to such a scam. It simply said she may not 
get her money back if she was the victim of a scam. 
Miss C hadnt invested before, so I consider her actions were reasonable based on 
her level of experience. The amount she invested also wasnt huge compared with 
average investment amounts.
Although Miss C wasnt provided with a contract the group chat she has shared 
shows a contract was requested and W said one was being prepared. 
Should Monzo have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss C? 
Im also mindful that when Miss C made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud. So Ive also considered 
whether the payments Miss C made were unusual or suspicious. 
The payments Miss C asked Monzo to make (for £800 and £200) were in line with what 
Monzo might reasonably have considered the normal operation of her account. I dont 
consider these were payments that should have particularly stood out to Monzo as being 
unusual or indicative of possible fraud. They were low in value and made over three weeks 
apart. In such circumstances, I find Monzo was obliged to make the payments in accordance 
with Miss Cs instructions and I do not find it at fault for having done so. This finding is 
relevant to when interest is payable from. 
Overall, I consider that under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the 
money Miss C lost as none of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case. Monzo should also pay interest on the money it should have 
refunded at 8% simple per year from the date Monzo declined Miss Cs claim to the date of 
payment.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and award Miss C £1,000 plus interest at 8% simple per year from the 
date Monzo Bank Ltd declined Miss Cs claim to the date of settlement (less any tax that is 
lawfully deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman