DRN-3811437
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with what hes been charged for early termination charge and excess 
mileage when he terminated his hire agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc.
What happened
In 2017, Mr A was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with Santander. He paid an 
advance rental of £3,600 and the agreement was for 24 months; with monthly payments of 
£342.25. If the agreement ran its full term, Mr A was due to pay a total of £11,814 in rental 
payments.
The agreement stated a maximum total allowable mileage of 10,000 miles (5,000 miles a 
year). It also stated that Mr A would be charged 7.56 pence (including VAT) a mile for the 
first 5,000 miles that exceeded this amount, and 10.08 pence (including VAT) a mile for any 
excess mileage over 5,000 miles.
In April 2019 Mr A contacted Santander, asking how much it would cost to terminate the 
agreement. Santander told him it would be £285.21 excluding VAT. This quotation is for 
your rental payments only. You may also be subject to further costs:
Excess mileage if you have exceeded your allowed mileage for the period of 
use.
End of Contract damage, if upon inspection, the condition of your vehicle is 
outside of the BVRLA standards.
The quotation Santander provided was valid until 6 May 2019. Mr A terminated the 
agreement and the car was collected on 30 April 2019, at which point the car had travelled 
23,997 miles. Santander charged him £342.55 (£285.21 plus VAT) for early termination, and 
an excess mileage charge of £1,016.47.
Mr A wasnt happy with what hed been charged, as it was more than he expected. And he 
complained to Santander. But Santander thought theyd charged Mr A fairly. Mr A wasnt 
happy with Santanders response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator explained why Santander were able to charge an early termination charge 
and a charge for pro-rated excess mileage on termination. He also explained, and provided 
calculations for, why he thought the charge for terminating the agreement was fair and 
reasonable, and why Mr A didnt pay more on termination than he wouldve done had the 
agreement run its full term. 
Given all of this, he thought Santander had acted reasonably and he didnt think they needed 
to do anything more.
Mr A wasnt happy with the investigators response. And he said he thought Santander had 
misquoted him when he asked them how much it would cost to terminate the agreement 
early. And he didnt agree with what Santander said he still owed them.
Because Mr A didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint, Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means we can look into complaints about it.
However, before I address Mr As complaints, I think it would be useful to address the 
charges themselves. And, in doing so, Ive considered the following:
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Section 101 of the CCA refers to a consumers right to terminate a hire agreement by giving 
notice. It states:
Right to terminate hire agreement:
(1) The hirer under a regulated consumer hire agreement is entitled to terminate the 
agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to receive the sums 
payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination ...
(7) This section does not apply to
(a) any agreement which provides for the making by the hirer of payments 
which in total (and without breach of the agreement) exceed £1,500 in any 
year
Section 132 of the CCA enables the court to grant relief to a hirer where the owner has 
recovered possession of the goods otherwise than by action. It states:
Financial relief for hirer:
(1) Where the owner under a regulated consumer hire agreement recovers 
possession of goods to which the agreement relates otherwise than by action, the 
hirer may apply to the court for an order that
(a) the whole or part of any sum paid by the hirer to the owner in respect of 
the goods shall be repaid, and
(b) the obligation to pay the whole or part of any sum owed by the hirer to the 
owner in respect of the goods shall cease, and if it appears to the court just to 
do so, having regard to the extent of the enjoyment of the goods by the hirer, 
the court shall grant the application in full or in part.
(2) Where in proceedings relating to a regulated consumer hire agreement the court 
makes an order for the delivery to the owner of goods to which the agreement relates 
the court may include in the order the like provision as may be made in an order 
under subsection (1).
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)The CRA sets out a schedule of non-exhaustive examples which might be considered to be 
unfair. The effect of this section is that terms used in contracts and notices will only be 
binding upon the consumer if they are fair. It defines unfair terms as those which put the 
consumer at a disadvantage, by limiting the consumers rights or disproportionately 
increasing their obligations as compared to the traders rights and obligations.
Part 2: Unfair Terms. What are the general rules about fairness of contract 
terms and notices?
62. (1) An unfair term of a consumer contract is not binding on the consumer .
(4) A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirement of good faith, it causes a significant 
imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations under the contract to the detriment of 
the consumer.
The CRA provides guidance on the expected clarity of wording within a contract, and the 
potential impact that any ambiguity within the contract would have:
68: Requirement for transparency
(1) A trader must ensure that a written term of a consumer contract, or a consumer 
notice in writing, is transparent 
(4) A term is unfair if, contrary to the requirements of good faith, it causes a 
significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations under the contract to the 
detriment of the consumer.
69: Contract terms that may have different meanings
(1) If a term in a consumer contract, or a consumer notice, could have different 
meanings, the meaning that is most favourable to the consumer is to prevail.
The CRA then goes on to list examples of terms that might be considered unfair:
Schedule 2: Consumer contract terms which may be regarded as unfair.
Part 1 list of terms 
(4) A term which has the object or effect of permitting the trader to retain sums paid 
by the consumer where the consumer decides not to conclude or perform the 
contract, without providing for the consumer to receive compensation of an 
equivalent amount from the trader where the trader is the party cancelling the 
contract.
(5) A term which has the object or effect of requiring that, where the consumer 
decides not to conclude or perform the contract, the consumer must pay the trader a 
disproportionately high sum in compensation or for services which have not been 
supplied.
(6) A term which has the object or effect of requiring a consumer who fails to fulfil his 
obligations under the contract to pay a disproportionately high sum in compensation.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
The FCA Principles for Businesses (PRIN) also apply and are of relevance to this complaint. 
PRIN 6 says A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
The Hire Agreement
The hire agreement sets out Mr As contractual obligations. Regarding early termination, the 
agreement states:
8. Payments on termination8.1 On termination of this agreement under clauses 7.2 or 9.1, during or at the end of 
the fixed period or during the continuing period, you will immediately pay to us 
together with VAT;
8.1.1 all arrears of hire payments, other payments, administration fee (if any) 
and other sums due under this agreement together with interest;
8.1.2 any excess mileage charge calculated in accordance with clause 12 and 
charged up to the time you return the vehicle to us or when we or our agents 
repossess the vehicle;
8.1.3 our costs in respect of repossession, storage, and insurance of the 
vehicle (until the end of the fixed period);
8.1.4 our costs in respect of servicing, providing replacement parts and 
carrying out repairs which are needed to put the vehicle in good condition 
following its return or repossession or resulting from an accident or deliberate 
or negligent damage to the vehicle; 
8.1.5 our costs in respect of selling the vehicle;
8.1.6 if, and only if we require it, you will pay us by way of liquidated damages 
and/or compensation for our loss an amount equal to all hire payments which 
had we not terminated this agreement were agreed to be paid by you to us 
until the end of the fixed period less a discount for accelerated payment and 
early return of the vehicle at the rate of 50%,
8.2 Your obligations under clause 8,1 will be treated as if they had arisen 
immediately before termination
The above makes reference to clause 7.2, clause 9.1, and indirectly references clause 6.4. 
These are as follows:
7.2 If you are treated as having breached this agreement and fail to comply with the 
default notice that we send you;
7.2.1 we can terminate the agreement; 
9. End of fixed period and return of vehicle
9.1 Unless terminated under clause 6.4 or 7.2 this agreement terminates 
automatically at the end of the fixed period and you will return the vehicle to us as 
required by clause 7.3.
6.4 This agreement will terminate immediately following a total loss of the vehicle 
during the fixed period and payment of all sums payable on termination (see clause 
8)
Regarding excess mileage the agreement states:
12. Excess mileage charge
12.1 You will on request notify us of the mileage recorded on the mileometer of the 
vehicle or relief vehicle ("recorded mileage").12.2 If the mileometer fitted to the vehicle or the relief vehicle has failed to work 
properly, you will notify us of the date of failure and the recorded mileage on that date 
and the date on which the repaired mileometer is re-fitted to the vehicle,
12.3 We will estimate your mileage during the period of failure referred to in clause 
12.2 by:
12.3,1 dividing the recorded mileage at the date of calculation plus any 
estimates of mileage calculated prior to that date by the number of days from 
the date of delivery up to the date of failure; and
12.3.2 multiplying the result by the number of days during which the 
mileometer failed to work properly to give the "estimated mileage".
12.4 The total mileage will be the recorded mileage plus any estimated mileage.
12.5 The basic mileage is the basic annual mileage shown in the Mileage Details 
Section multiplied by the number of whole and/or part years that have passed since 
this agreement date up to the date of calculation ("basic mileage'').
12.6 If at any time during this agreement or on termination of this agreement the total 
mileage exceeds the basic mileage, an excess mileage charge calculated by: 
multiplying the excess of the total mileage calculated at that date over the basic 
mileage by the rate of each such excess mile stated in the Mileage Details Section; 
deducting the total amount of any excess mileage charges which have been 
previously paid under this agreement.
The first point I need to consider is whether these charges are legally enforceable on early 
termination. Unlike a hire purchase agreement, the hire agreement Mr A entered into doesnt 
have the same rights in legislation to terminate an agreement early. And, while section 101 
of the CCA gives consumers the right to terminate a hire agreement, this doesnt apply to 
agreements where the hirer is required to make payments exceeding £1,500 a year. Which 
Mr A was. So, Im satisfied that section 101 of the CCA doesnt apply.
So, as the charges, on the face of it, arent unenforceable, Ive also considered if what Mr A 
is being asked to pay is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that both parties agreed to terminate the hire 
agreement early. And, as a result, Santander charged both an early termination charge and 
a charge for exceeding the total allowable mileage (calculated based on a pro-rated 
allowable mileage for the length the agreement was in force).
Clause 8 of the hire agreement only provides for an early termination charge based on the 
provisions set out in clauses 7.1, 9.1, and implied in 6.4. However, these clauses dont 
include the circumstances applicable here  where early termination was mutually agreed 
between the parties. So, its not clear whether clause 8 actually applies. And, while clause 
12 allows for an excess mileage charge to be applied, the hire agreement isnt clear as to 
what basis fair compensation will be calculated when both an early termination and an 
excess mileage charge are applied.
Taking everything into consideration, I think its fair to presume that Santander are charging 
both the early termination charge and excess mileage charge to compensate themselves for 
both Mr A not paying all the originally agreed contractual payments and for any devaluation 
of the car caused by the expected mileage (the total allowable mileage specified in the hire 
agreement) being exceeded. But the fact that the car potentially has a different (higher) 
value on early termination, as opposed to the value at the end of the hire agreement, also needs to be considered.
As the hire agreement doesnt provide a transparent and fair way of calculating this 
compensation, and so ensuring that Santander arent overcompensated to the extent that it 
wouldnt be fair and proportionate to their actual loss, Im satisfied that PRIN 6 should be 
applied to the circumstances. Which would also involve the need for Santander to be both 
clear and transparent about what theyre charging; and not charging more than its fair and 
reasonable to do so.
In his view on Mr As complaint, the investigator looked at the difference between the 
position Santander would be in upon early termination compared to the position theyd be in 
had the agreement run its full term (and the car having done no more than the total allowable 
mileage). In doing so, the investigator also considered the value of the car at both stages, 
with valuations taken using the motor trade guides. Using these guides is in line with 
standard practice for the Financial Ombudsman Service, so I dont think the investigator 
acted unfairly when doing so. Whats more, Mr A hasnt provided any evidence to show that 
these valuations were incorrect.
As such, I see no reason why the investigators calculations shouldnt be relied upon.
When Mr A returned the car, there was around two months left on the agreement, and had 
the agreement continued to its natural end, Mr A wouldve paid an additional £684.50. As it 
was, he paid an early termination charge of £342.25, and a pro-rated excess mileage charge 
of £1,016.47  at the point of termination Mr A had done 23,997 miles in the car.
So, had the agreement run its full term, Santander wouldve received £684.50 in payments 
from Mr A, and the car wouldve been valued at between £20,814 and £25,490 (assuming 
the total allowable mileage hadnt been exceeded  if it had, then any reduction in this value 
due to mileage would be offset by any excess mileage charge). So, Santander would be 
receiving goods and payments to the value of between £21,498.50 and £26,174.50.
However, as the agreement was terminated early, Mr A paid a total of £1,358.72 in charges, 
and the car was sold for £19,167. So, Santander received goods and payments to the value 
of £20,525.72. As such, charging what they did on early termination, Santander received 
£972.78 less than the minimum they otherwise wouldve done if the agreement had run its 
full course.
Given this, Im satisfied that the charges were fair and reasonable, and Santander werent 
overcompensated. Im also satisfied that they havent breached the requirements of PRIN 6.
Did Santander misquote Mr A when they provided the early termination quote, and are they 
asking him to pay more than he owes them?
Ive seen a copy of the early termination quote Santander provided to Mr A. As stated above, 
this says Mr A would be charged £285.21 excluding VAT  You may also be subject to 
further costs:
Excess mileage if you have exceeded your allowed mileage for the period of 
use.
End of Contract damage, if upon inspection, the condition of your vehicle is 
outside of the BVRLA standards.
Ive also seen that, upon termination, Mr A was charged an early termination charge of 
£285.21 plus VAT, as well as an excess mileage charge. As such, Im satisfied that Mr A 
wasnt misquoted about how much hed have to pay upon early termination.However, any charges that are applied on early termination are in addition to anything Mr A 
owed under his agreement at the point of termination and wasnt a replacement cost. Ive 
listened to the call between Mr A and Santander on 16 April 2019, where this was explained 
to Mr A. 
In this call Santander said that the amount Mr A would be charged would depend on how the 
payment schedule runs, when the payment fell due, and when the car was collected. But 
they made it clear that Mr A would need to pay the April payment (as hed cancelled the 
direct debit), and that this would be in addition to the early termination charge.
Santander have since explained that, as Mr As payments are collected in arrears, hes been 
asked to pay the April 2019 payment (covering the period 7 March to 6 April 2019), and a 
payment for the period 7 April to 30 April 2019.
Given what Santander had explained to Mr A before the agreement was terminated, Im 
satisfied he wouldve been reasonably aware of that he also needed to make rental 
payments to Santander to cover the period up to termination. And he also knew that the 
actual amount he owed wouldnt be known until the car had been returned. As such, I dont 
think that Santander have acted unreasonably by asking Mr A to make these payments. And 
I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman