DRN-3070473
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has acted unfairly 
towards him in how it corrected a mistake in its bonus payments.
What happened
Mr D had a pension plan with Royal London. He transferred his pension to a new provider in 
November 2010. 
On 14 January 2021 he says he received a letter from Royal London enclosing a cheque for 
£643.41. Royal London said this payment was being made to him because it had identified it 
had failed to add additional bonus units to his pension plan whilst it had been with Royal 
London. 
Royal London deducted tax from this payment. Mr D says it should not have issued him with 
a cheque but should instead have paid the funds to his new pension provider. If it had done 
that he wouldnt have incurred a tax liability. Mr D also says that if the additional bonus units 
had been added to his policy when they should have been his pension value would have 
increased by £148.28 in addition to the value of the bonus units. 
Mr D says hes contacted the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and he believes Royal 
London has breached several of the Principles set out in the FCA Handbook. He complained 
to Royal London.
Royal London looked into his complaint. It said it had sent him a cheque because it wasnt 
aware of his current pension circumstances. It also said that some pension providers dont 
accept single payments and payment thresholds may apply. In these circumstances it had 
decided to make the payment direct to him on the basis of pensionable income. It had 
processed the payment applying the relevant HMRC rules. Royal London said it had then 
applied interest to the payment, for the relevant period, calculated at 1% above Bank of 
England Base Rate.
Royal London said that if Mr D wanted the payment to be made to his pension provider 
instead, it would do that, provided his pension provider confirmed it was willing to accept the 
payment and he provided bank details for his pension provider. Royal London said the 
cheque payment would have to be cancelled and it would make a payment to his new 
pension provider. The payment would be equal to the value of the additional bonus units that 
hadnt been allocated (£657.18) plus £148.28, which was the amount Mr D said the original 
sum wouldve grown had it been added to his pension at the time.
Mr D was not satisfied with this response. He said the full amount should be transferred over 
to his pension provider. He says his financial adviser had provided the details to Royal 
London and there was no reason for Royal Londons failure to make the payment. Mr D said 
hed already cashed the cheque Royal London had sent to him. He referred his complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He thought that although Royal London couldve 
done things differently at the outset by, for example, contacting Mr D and asking him how he 
wanted it to make the payment to him, he was satisfied on balance, it had acted fairly and 
reasonably. After Mr D had complained, Royal London had offered to pay the full amount 
including the loss of investment growth to his new pension. But that was conditional on Mr D 
returning the payment he had been sent and confirming that his pension provider would 
accept the payment. 
Mr D had not returned the payment and our investigator said that it would not be fair and 
reasonable to expect Royal London to compensate him twice.
Mr D didnt agree. He said his investment advisers had provided details to Royal London 
over seven months ago and it had not made the payment to his new pension provider. 
Because Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the letter from Royal London dated 7 January 2021 and the questions and 
answers provided by it. 
Mr D had already transferred his pension from Royal London in 2010  so he wouldnt have 
been expecting the letter. Royal London said it had carried out a review of its processes, in 
response to an internal audit, and had discovered some historical errors when it hadnt 
allocated additional bonuses to certain policies, in line with its terms and conditions. Having 
identified the errors, Royal London was now seeking to rectify matters.
I agree that it was right that Royal London should seek to rectify these errors once theyd 
been identified. It was fair and reasonable that it should seek to do that  even though the 
errors had happened many years earlier and even though, in the case of Mr D, his pension 
had been transferred to another provider over 10 years earlier.
Royal London says it didnt know what Mr Ds circumstances were  it didnt know who his 
pension provider was or whether that pension provider would permit single payments to be 
made. Whilst I agree that it could have asked Mr D for this information before making a 
cheque payment to him, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for it to decide instead to 
go ahead and make the payment to him, treating it as pensionable income. And having read 
the subsequent correspondence, I think Mr D was made aware very soon after he received 
the cheque that if, instead of the cheque payment, he wanted the money paid to his new 
pension provider, Royal London was willing to facilitate that. Ive commented further on this 
below.
The letter dated 7 January 2021 said that a P45 would follow  providing more details about 
the tax which applied. It also stated that an additional interest payment had been included. 
The questions and answers provided more information. They explained that the interest 
payment was for the period from the date when the additional bonus should have been 
added, up to the date of payment. The rate of interest was 1% above Bank of England Base 
Rate. Id just comment that an interest payment is usually made to compensate for any loss 
of use of the funds for the period from when the original error was made up to the date when 
the compensation amount is paid. It was fair and reasonable that Royal London added 
compensatory interest to the payment it made.Mr D received the letter on 14 January and he contacted Royal London straightaway to 
express his dissatisfaction. He said the money should have been paid into his current 
pension plan and he shouldnt be liable for income tax.
Royal London responded by email on 19 January. It provided him with more details about 
how the payment had been calculated. But it said that it would pay the money to his pension 
provider if he was able to confirm that it was willing to accept the payment. If that was 
confirmed, Royal London said it would cancel the cheque and notify HMRC that the payment 
had been cancelled.
Mr D replied to say that he didnt accept any of what had been said. Hed opened a 
complaint with the FCA and hed asked his advisers to calculate what his investment loss 
had been because of Royal Londons error. He informed Royal London on 4 February 2021 
that his investment loss was £148.28. This was more than the gross interest payment of 
£105.79 which Royal London had included with the compensation payment it had made.
On 8 February 2021, Royal London replied. It said it would transfer £657.18 (the value of the 
additional bonus units it should have allocated) plus £148.28 (the investment loss hed 
informed it of) to his current provider provided his current provider confirmed that it could 
accept it. It said the cheque it had issued would then be cancelled and it would inform HMRC 
there was no tax liability in this instance.
Ive thought about the alternative offer Royal London made in its email of 8 February. It was 
willing to pay Mr D the full amount of the additional bonus it hadnt added to his pension. It 
said it would pay that amount without any deduction of income tax. It could do that because 
this sum was going to be paid to his new pension provider. And, instead of adding interest to 
the payment for the period since the original error had happened, it said it would pay him the 
amount his investment advisers had told him this amount would have grown had it been 
invested in his pension for the whole period. I think it was fair and reasonable for Royal 
London to say that if Mr D wanted to accept the alternative offer he should return the 
compensation payment it had made. That payment had included compensatory interest.
Im satisfied Mr D received the email of 8 February from Royal London because he provided 
a copy of it to our service when he logged his complaint.
Royal London says Mr D hasnt contacted it with details of his new pension provider and it 
says the cheque it sent him has been cashed. 
Mr D says his advisers have given details of his new pension provider to Royal London  
months ago.
I can see an email from Mr Ds advisers to Royal London, providing bank details for the new 
pension provider dated 5 October 2021. And, although Mr Ds advisers have stated that they 
believe they did inform Royal London prior to that date, I havent seen any evidence to 
support that. So, on balance, Im not persuaded there is enough evidence to say that Royal 
London has been informed, prior to October 2021, of the pension provider details. And, it is 
also the case that, by that date, the cheque Royal London sent to Mr D had been encashed.
Mr D was told in February that if he wanted the payment to be sent to his new pension 
provider, that would be instead of the cheque payment it had already sent him. Ive set out 
above why I think that was fair and reasonable. So, Mr D will have to reimburse Royal 
London if he wants to accept the alternative offer. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to expect Royal London to compensate him twice for the historical error it made when it 
didnt allocate additional bonuses to his pension before it was transferred to another 
provider.Mr D told us hed also advised the FCA about his complaint and he feels Royal London has 
breached several Principles set out in the FCA Handbook.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is not a regulator. Our role is to investigate the complaint 
Mr D has made and determine how that complaint should be resolved in a way which is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When doing that we take into account 
the law, codes, regulations and good practice. So, when considering how this complaint 
should be resolved I have taken those matters into account, including the Principles set out 
in the FCA Handbook.
Where a business has made a mistake its not our role to fine or punish it  but rather to 
determine what action is required to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied, on balance, that Royal London has acted 
fairly and reasonably. It identified an historical error, informed its customer and made a 
payment, including compensatory interest for the period from the date when the error had 
been made, to rectify the error. As soon as Mr D indicated he thought the payment should be 
made in a different way and that it should include a payment for the investment growth he 
said hed lost out on, Royal London agreed that it would comply with his request  subject to 
certain conditions having been met. Once his pension provider confirmed the payment would 
be accepted, Royal London said the original cheque payment would be cancelled and 
HMRC would be informed. I think those conditions were fair and reasonable. Mr D has not 
met those conditions.
I recognise Mr D may still want to return the payment to Royal London so that it can then 
make a payment, in line with its alternative offer, instead to his new pension provider. Its up 
to Royal London whether that offer is still open. Im satisfied, on balance, Royal London has 
already done enough to resolve this complaint. I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman