DRN-4508707
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim he made on his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
At the end of November 2020, Mr K made a claim for damage caused by subsidence under 
his home insurance policy. UKI accepted the claim. Around the same time it also accepted a 
claim for an escape of water at the property too. But said before repairs relating to that could 
be carried out, the cause of the subsidence needed to be dealt with first. 
Unhappy with the progress of the claim, Mr K made a complaint to UKI, which it responded 
to in January 2023. It said there had been delays in the claim, but much of the delay had 
been outside of its control given the challenge of sourcing contractors in the area where Mr 
K lived, and the quarantine restrictions in place in his locality because of the covid-19 
pandemic. But it recognised there were issues in the handling of the claims, and so it 
awarded £750 compensation to recognise the impact of its poor service.
Mr K said he was initially happy with the response, but some months later no progress had 
been made with the claim, so he referred the complaint to this service. After doing so, he 
received a further final response letter from UKI dated September 2023. This addressed 
delays from January 2023. UKI accepted it hadnt progressed matters, mostly because a 
report wasnt picked up and reviewed for around four months. To recognise this delay, UKI 
paid a further £175 compensation. 
Our investigator reviewed the claim up to September 2023. He thought UKI should pay a 
total of £1,500 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
K for a prolonged period of time. He said the delays and being in alternative accommodation 
for longer than he would have likely needed had impacted Mr Ks wellbeing. And Mr K has 
three young children, one of them with a medical issue which had been impacted by living in 
damp conditions in the property. 
Mr K accepted that outcome, but UKI didnt. It said it had listened to Mr Ks concerns about 
the property, and that is why alternative accommodation had been offered. It said it had 
made payments in a timely manner to assist Mr K and it believed its offer of £925 in total 
was enough to compensate Mr K for the issues with the claim.
As UKI didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI accepts it made mistakes and caused unnecessary delays in the handling the claim. So, 
the only thing for me to consider is whether its offer of £925 compensation fairly reflects  the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K.
Having considered everything, I agree with our investigator that UKI should pay a total of 
£1,500 compensation to resolve the complaint. I consider the unnecessary delays in the 
claim to have had a greater impact on Mr K given his family circumstances, with three young 
children to look after, including one with a medical issue. 
Whilst I accept some of the delays at the start were attributed to the covid-19 pandemic, its 
now over three years since the claim was first made and it still isnt resolved. The claim is 
complicated by subsidence and an escape of water issue, and that has led to various 
contractors being involved for the different parts. UKI has also said Mr Ks location have 
caused it a challenge. However, UKI has offered Mr K insurance in full knowledge of his 
location, so it cant use this as a reason to give him a poorer service.
UKIs own notes suggest there was no real progress on the claim for around 10 months in 
2021, I dont think all of this can be attributed to government restrictions as a result of the 
pandemic. And further notes from UKIs from file November 2022 say appreciate pandemic 
November 2020 but we are now 2 years further on and nothing appears to be happening. 
Im satisfied this delay has caused Mr K significant distress and inconvenience.
I note UKI offered alternative accommodation when Mr K flagged there was mould in the 
property which was impacting his sons health, but I consider that had UKI been more 
proactive in handling the claim, the mould would have likely been avoided in the first place. I 
say this because it seems to have appeared due to the escape of water, which UKI chose 
not to deal with until the cause of the subsidence damage was resolved. The worry it caused 
Mr K, his circumstances and him having to move out of his home at short notice as a result, 
means hes been more severely impacted than others might have been in the same 
situation.
UKI said it did make payments to Mr K quickly to resolve issues with the alternative 
accommodation. It appears that is the case from the file. But it also accepts it delayed the 
claim for around four months in 2023 because a report that was carried out wasnt picked up 
and progressed. In a claim thats already experienced delays, I think the impact on Mr K of 
further avoidable delays is more severe. Particularly when hes out of his permanent home, 
which is already an inconvenience. 
Going forward UKI needs to ensure it carries out repairs without delay and confirm to Mr K 
what the next steps are and when theyll happen. If Mr K experiences any further challenges 
with the claim after September 2023, he can raise those as a new complaint, and contact our 
service again if hes unhappy with UKIs resolution. 
My final decision
My final decision is that UK Insurance Limited needs to pay Mr K £1,500 to resolve this 
complaint, less any amount it has already paid.
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr K accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman