DRN-3815068
The complaint
Mr S complains about two secured loans with Barclays Bank PLC. He complains the loans 
were mis-sold, he complains about how theyve been administered, and he complains that 
Barclays wont agree to align the terms with his first charge mortgage.
What happened
Mr S has a first charge mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC, secured over his property. 
The term of this mortgage expires in 2028.
Separately, he took out two interest only secured loans, secured over the same property, in 
2009 and 2011. These loans were taken through a different firm in the wider Barclays group 
 the lender on these loans was Barclays Private Bank & Trust Limited. The loans gave 
Barclays Private Bank & Trust Limited second and fourth charge over the property. The term 
on both loans expired in December 2013.
The loans were transferred from Barclays Private Bank & Trust Limited to Barclays Private 
Clients International Limited in September 2014, and then on to Barclays Bank PLC in 
October 2017. Barclays Bank PLC is a separate firm to Barclays Bank UK PLC, with whom 
Mr S has the first charge mortgage.
Barclays Bank PLC accepts that it has been administering these loans, and that Mr S has 
dealt with its staff about them. And it has owned these loans as lender since 2017. Therefore 
this complaint is set up against Barclays Bank PLC.
Since 2013, as the end of the term on the first of the secured loans approached, Mr S has 
been in negotiation with Barclays about his lending. It refused to re-finance all the lending 
onto the first charge mortgage in January 2014. In 2015, it required Mr S to give further 
security for the lending through his companies as well as over his property. In 2015 and 
again in 2017 it agreed short term extensions to allow Mr S to explore re-financing 
elsewhere. In 2019, it told Mr S that in the absence of a clear plan for repayment it would 
move towards taking recovery action, and in 2020 it told Mr S that it was now doing so.
Mr S complained. He says the secured loans were mis-sold to him, because they should 
have been set as being over the same term as the first charge mortgage  to expire in 2028. 
He says that he was given to understand that when the loans expired, he would be able to 
roll them over onto new terms. But when the time came Barclays did not in fact agree to that, 
and it has been trying to recover the loans, including through threatening legal action, ever 
since.
Mr S complains about the refusal to consolidate the loans into a first charge mortgage in 
2014. He complains about the negotiations since then, in particular that he has been forced 
to pay legal costs to add security over his companies and that this has reduced the value of 
his companies. And he complains that Barclays is now contemplating legal action to recover 
the capital. To resolve his complaint, he wants Barclays to re-finance the loans and extend 
the terms to match the expiry of his first charge mortgage in 2028.
Barclays said that most of Mr Ss complaint was out of time. He didnt complain until June 
2020, more than six years after the loans were taken out, more than six years after the terms 
expired and more than six years after the refusal to consolidate the loans into the mortgage 
in 2014.
Our investigator said that we could only consider parts of Mr Ss complaint. He said that we 
couldnt consider anything about the sale of the secured loans or the lending decisions  
including the length of the terms. That was because the sale was more than six years ago, 
and because the lender was not a firm that falls into our jurisdiction. We also couldnt 
consider the refusal to extend the first charge mortgage, because that too was out of time. 
We could consider the administration of the secured loans, including the term extensions 
and the move to recovery action  but only from the point at which administration moved to 
Barclays Bank PLC.
The investigator then considered the merits of the part of the complaint that fell within our 
jurisdiction, but didnt uphold it.
Mr S didnt accept that his complaint was out of jurisdiction. And he didnt agree with the 
investigators conclusions on the merits either. He asked for an ombudsman to reconsider 
matters.
Ive set out my conclusions on what we can consider, and why, in a separate decision. I 
concluded that we could only consider that part of the complaint which related to the fairness 
of actions taken by Barclays Bank PLC from 13 May 2014. We cannot consider anything 
done by the other firms at all, and anything done by Barclays Bank PLC before that date is 
out of time.
My provisional decision
I set out my conclusions on the merits of the complaint in a provisional decision. I said:
Ive explained that I cannot consider whether the loans were mis-sold, and I cannot consider 
whether assurances were given  or relied on by Mr S  that loans would simply be rolled 
over and extended once they expired in December 2013, and whether as a result Barclays 
acted unfairly in not extending the terms when they expired. 
The terms and conditions of the loans say that the terms would expire in December 2013. 
And thereafter, on behalf of the successive lenders, Barclays Bank PLC sought to recover 
these loans. All I can consider is whether, from 13 May 2014 onwards, Barclays has acted 
fairly in the steps it has taken.
Between the two of them, these loans total over £3million. The terms expired in 2013, and 
nine years later the loans have not been repaid  Mr S has continued to pay the interest, but 
has not repaid the capital.
I think that Barclays Bank PLC has shown reasonable forbearance over that time. It has 
offered short term extensions to allow Mr S to explore other means of repayment  it seems 
Mr S has mainly been relying on the proceeds of property development. When Mr S was 
unable to repay, I dont think it was unreasonable that Barclays wanted to take further 
security, including over his companies, in return for agreeing further extensions. Given the 
high value involved, it was reasonable that it wanted additional comfort before agreeing to 
delay repayment of the sums outstanding.
By 2019, its clear Barclays had lost patience and explained to Mr S that it wouldnt agree to 
any more extensions and that if the loans were not repaid, it would issue a final demand and then explore legal proceedings to repossess his property to recover the lending.
I dont think this was unfair. By then it was six years since the terms had originally expired, 
and Mr S was no closer to making concrete proposals for repayment beyond requesting that 
the terms be extended to 2028. Im not persuaded it was unfair to refuse to extend the loans 
fifteen years beyond their original terms.
In all the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable that Barclays concluded that it had 
exhausted reasonable forbearance options and that the next step was to consider more 
formal action.
Since then, Mr S has complained, and Barclays has not in fact taken further action. Once I 
issue my final decision, its likely it will resume doing so. And so Mr S will need to contact 
Barclays if he has any further proposals for repayment.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party replied to my provisional decision. Ive reconsidered what I said, but in the 
absence of further evidence or argument I see no reason to change my mind.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman