DRN-3077624
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc declined three of his card payments when he had
enough money in his bank account for the payments to be successful.
What happened
Mr M attempted to deposit £5 from his Santander current account to a third party company.
The third party company told him that his deposit had been declined by his bank. Mr M
attempted to make another payment of £5 to the third party company, but he said he
received the same message. He then tried a third time to deposit £5 with the third party and
once again received the same message. Mr M says that he had sufficient funds to make
these deposits.
Mr M contacted Santander and explained what had happened. The call handler informed Mr
M that Santander hadnt declined his transactions. The call handler explained to Mr M that
as the payments had been requested by the third party company, then the payments are
withheld and the amount is deducted from Mr Ms available balance until either the third
party claims this money (usually within a fortnight) or is not claimed and then will show on his
available balance.
As Mr M had made three payments when he originally intended to make one payment of £5,
the call handler offered to reverse the duplicate payments into Mr Ms Santander account. Mr
M asked why he couldnt refund all three and the call handler said because that payment Mr
M had attempted to make wasnt a duplicate and it was what he originally wanted to deposit
with the third party. Mr M told the call handler that either Santander or the third party were to
blame and he wanted a complaint raised. Mr M also wanted compensation as £15 had been
deducted from the available balance. The call handler explained that there would be only £5
showing as being deducted from his available balance as he had reversed the two duplicate
payments.
Santander did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said that they were not able to evidence
any error which would justify Santander paying Mr M compensation. Mr M brought his
complaint to our service. He sent us information from the third party which stated that all
three of his £5 payments had been declined and he said Santander had lied to him.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said that all three payments in question
were approved by Santander. Our investigator also said that the staff Mr M spoke to had
relayed the information which was available to them so they acted fairly in what they told Mr
M.
Mr M asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He asked if Santander werent to
blame then why did they pay both the third party company and reverse the duplicate
transactions. He also said he had similar problems with Santander before and they had
upheld his complaints and paid him compensation, so it was clear that Santander were at
fault and didnt want to accept it.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ill start off by saying that I can only look into the actions of Santander here and not the third
party company. I know Mr M has sent us outcomes of other cases which he says have been
similar to this one. But I can only look into the individual merits of this case and see if any
errors have been made.
Im not persuaded that Santander have made an error here. I say this as I have been
provided with evidence from Santander, which I have asked our investigator to share with Mr
M, which clearly shows the three transactions in question and a response of approved. The
transactions also have three unique authorisation codes. So Im satisfied that Santander did
approve the payments and that the payments werent declined by Santander, as they would
be showing as declined payments and not approved payments.
Next Ive considered what Mr M has asked regarding why did Santander reverse the
payments and pay the third party also if they werent to blame. But Ive seen no evidence
that Santander paid both the third party and Mr M. Ive listened to the call Mr M had with
Santander where he raised the issue of the three transactions. The call handler explained to
Mr M that when a payment is approved, it goes into withholdings for the company to take the
money, but as Santander reversed two of these payments and these credited Mr Ms
account then this money wont have been paid to the third party and the money for the
reversed transactions would be available straightaway for Mr M.
Santander explained on the phone that as Mr M had attempted to make the original payment
then this wouldnt be reversed, but it would re-credit his account if the third party didnt claim
it. This was also confirmed in the letter that the call handler sent Mr M where it says the
third payment is still pending collection. I advised you when the last payment amount would
expire. So Im not persuaded that Santander have paid both Mr M and the third party for the
same transactions.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr M has that Santander have lied to him, but Im
satisfied that the call handler communicated to Mr M the information which was available to
him. Ive seen no evidence that the information the call handler told Mr M was incorrect. The
call handler explains the situation to Mr M on the call and answers all of his questions. So
Im satisfied that Santander have not made an error for the reasons Ive already given. So it
follows that I dont intend to ask Santander to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
Decision. Santander said they had nothing to add to the provisional decision. Mr M did not 
accept the provisional decision.
Mr M raised a number of points. In summary he said Santander had a reason to lie about the 
payments being approved as they would have to pay him compensation, Santander have 
paid him compensation for the same issue on recent complaints he has made, Santander 
clearly said on the telephone call that his deposits were showing as withholdings, so if this 
was the case then they have not been processed, but if the deposits failed in some way then 
the money should have stayed in his account instead of being returned to him with 
considerable delay, stress and frustration. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to see that Santanders system hadnt worked 
as it should have done for the three deposits that Mr M attempted to make. As I mentioned in 
my provisional decision, I can only assess the actions of Santander here, and not the third 
party company. So although Ive taken into account the evidence the third party company 
have provided, I can only rule if Santander have acted unfairly towards Mr M.
Ive considered what Mr M has said about Santander having reason to lie as they would 
have to pay him compensation. But the screenshot I provided Mr M clearly shows that 
Santander approved the three payments in question. As Mr M has said they have recently 
paid him compensation for similar issues recently, Im not persuaded that this would mean 
Santander would try and avoid paying him compensation if any error was made in this 
instance if they have paid him on similar issues. Im satisfied the reason that they havent 
paid any compensation on this occasion is because they have made no error.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said about Santander clearly saying on the telephone that 
his payments were in withholdings and so this means that they havent been processed. But 
as I explained in my provisional decision, the call handler explained to Mr M that when a 
payment is approved, it goes into withholdings for the company to take the money and it 
would re-credit his account if the third party didnt claim it. And the third party didnt claim the 
payment which wasnt reversed by Santander, so it re-credited his account. I cant hold 
Santander responsible for any delays or stress caused by a third party company not claiming 
the money. And even with deposits that have been successfully made to the third party 
company, the money would have went into withholdings until the third party claimed the 
funds. So Im satisfied Santanders system worked as it should have done in this instance as 
the payments were all showing as approved.
In summary, Mr Ms response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr M will be disappointed with the
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman