DRN-3675212
The complaint
Mr S and Ms H complain about how TSB Bank plc dealt with the closure of their accounts 
and that it amended their data without permission.
What happened
Mr S says TSB amended personal data on its systems without permission and brought 
forward the account closure date which ought to have been 13 July 2021 not 29 June 
2021.He says the account was closed without explanation and that fees were charged as 
part of the closure. Mr S would like a full investigation into the data breach and a return of 
the fees. He says TSB required him to attend a branch which was impossible as he was 
living abroad.
TSB says it told Mr S and Ms H it was closing their accounts on 29 April 2021 in line with 
account terms and conditions. It says it gave them the required two months notice and told 
them the accounts would close on 29 June 2021. TSB says no charges or fees were made 
and says it requires account holders to live in the United Kingdom (UK). It says it is not clear 
why Mr S says he was told the account would close on 13 July 2021.
Mr S and Ms H brought their complaint to us and also complained about other matters. Mr S 
says TSB kept some of the money in the account and raises issues about an account card.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and explained that we couldnt look into matters 
previously investigated by TSB. The investigator thought TSB was entitled to close the 
account in line with agreed account terms and conditions and thought the closure date was 
29 June 2021. The investigator thought TSB had sent cheques in respect of the account 
balance to Mr S and Ms H.
Mr S didnt accept that view and provided a copy of the letter from TSB in which the account 
closure date was referred to as 13 July 2021. He says one of the cheques wasnt received 
and that is the crux of the complaint. 
TSB provided a final response letter about the closure date in which it apologised for the 
mistake and paid £50 compensation. The investigator thought that payment appropriate.
Mr S and Ms H dont accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that TSB has dealt fairly with this complaint 
by paying appropriate compensation. I make clear to Mr S and Ms H that I have not 
considered what they say is the crux of the complaint namely the delay in sending them the 
account balance. The reason for that is that Mr S and Ms H did not make any mention of the 
money held in the account when it closed or made any complaint about its return when they 
brought the complaint initially to us. So, TSB has not had an opportunity to investigate that 
part of the complaint and has told us that it requires Mr S and Ms H to make a formal 
complaint to it which in turn will result in an investigation. They are of course free to bring 
such a complaint to us if they are unhappy with the response. 
I also make clear to Mr S and Ms H that I have looked into the two main complaints brought 
to this service which is the account closure date issue and the data breach. I cant fairly look 
into complaints which TSB has previously investigated and sent Mr S and Ms H its final 
response letters which were not brought to us in time for the reasons explained by the 
investigator. I cant see that Mr S and Ms H have raised any issues about the investigators 
view on those matters in any event.
Im satisfied having looked at TSBs account terms and conditions, which I think Mr S and 
Ms H would have agreed to when the account was first opened, that its entitled to close an 
account by giving appropriate notice. So, I dont think TSB made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by writing to the parties on 29 April 2021 telling them their accounts would close on 29 June 
2021. And Im satisfied that TSB acted in line with agreed account terms and conditions by 
doing so. I appreciate that Mr S and Ms H may disagree with the reasons behind that 
decision, but Im satisfied that TSB is entitled to take such action and made clear why it was 
doing so. It is not our role to interfere into TSBs commercial business decisions or to direct it 
about offering accounts for those outside the UK.
I make clear to Mr S and Ms H that I have not seen any evidence of any charges that were 
made by TSB when closing the account and dont think Mr S has explained what he meant 
by such charges. 
I accept that Mr S and Ms H received a separate notice from TSB telling them that the 
accounts would close on 13 July 2021. I have no doubt Mr S and Ms H would have been 
confused by that letter as it clearly contradicted the previous letter about the closure date. 
And I dont think it clear why TSB was unaware of that letter when investigating this 
complaint. But I can see that TSB has fairly apologised for that mistake and paid what I think 
is an appropriate compensation amount of £50. I dont think Mr S and Ms H suffered any 
significant inconvenience by that mistake as they knew the accounts would be closing in any 
event and think they could have reasonably raised the issue with TSB if they wished, as the 
letters were contradictory.
It would be for the Information Commissioners Office to decide if a business had breached 
data protection rules. I can see that TSB has explained that it holds the correct information 
for Mr S and Ms H but has accepted it made a mistake by giving them incorrect information. 
Im satisfied that TSB has fairly apologised for that mistake and paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount of £40. I dont think the incorrect information was significant or had 
any real impact. And I have not seen any evidence that Mr S and Ms Hs personal 
information has been shared incorrectly with anyone.
Overall, I accept that TSB ought to have dealt with parts of this complaint more appropriately 
but has fairly apologised and paid appropriate compensation. I hope Mr S and Ms H will 
appreciate why I cant look at their main complaint point about the return of their money but 
hope when they make a formal complaint to TSB, that TSB will look at it as soon as it can.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman