DRN-2926558
The complaint
Miss P complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a fixed sum loan agreement 
(agreement) with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander).
Miss P is represented in her complaint by a third party. But for ease I will refer to any 
submissions made by the third party as if they had been made by Miss P herself.
What happened
Miss P took possession of a new car in June 2018. 
The cash price of the car was £10,364. Under the terms of the agreement, everything else 
being equal, Miss P undertook to make an advance payment of £169 followed by 1 monthly 
payment of £169.72 and 59 monthly payments of £169.92 - making a total repayable of 
£10,364 at 0% APR.
In September 2020 the car broke down having covered approximately 25,000 miles.
Neither the supplying dealership, nor Santander, were prepared to repair the car  at least at 
no cost to Miss P. So, Miss P referred a complaint to our service for investigation.
Miss Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied and in particular it wasnt reasonably 
durable. He then went on to say that Santander should:
repair the car at no cost to Miss P
provide Miss P with a courtesy car whilst her car was in for repair
refund costs totalling £290.16
refund any monthly payments made by Miss P towards her agreement between 
30 October 2020 and the date her car was repaired and returned to her
Miss P confirmed she was happy to accept the investigators view. However, Santander said 
it wanted to instruct its own engineer to inspect the car before deciding whether to accept the 
investigators view or not.
Four months or so after the above view was reached and shared with the parties, Santander 
confirmed that the supplying dealership was prepared (on the second service on the car 
being carried out at a cost to Miss P of £280) to meet the first three recommendations made 
by the investigator noted above.
In May 2021 Miss P advised our service that the dealership had met the first three 
recommendations made by the investigator, but that Santander had yet to return any of the 
monthly payments the investigator recommended should be returned.
Santander wasnt prepared to refund any monthly payments made by Miss P, at least 
without further clarification/explanation from the investigator. So, Miss Ps complaint was 
passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I dont apply the law directly  but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA).
Miss P purchased this car using a fixed sum loan linked to the supply of it. In summary, in 
some limited circumstances, Section 75 of the CCA gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of the finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which the complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. 
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include being free from minor defects and 
durability. The car here was new and so would be expected to be in perfect condition. 
Having considered the content of the inspection report carried out by a third party in 
November 2020 and the dealerships decision to repair the car at no cost to Miss P, I find 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss P and that in particular it 
wasnt reasonably durable.
I can see repairs have already taken place. And from what Ive seen, this appears to have 
resolved the issue with the car and both Miss P and Santander are broadly in agreement 
about this. I can also see that the supplying dealership has refunded Miss P £290.16 of 
costs she said she incurred. But this isnt the end of the matter.
I can see that because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality Miss P wasnt able to use it for 
a period of time and that she didnt have access, for a large part of this time, to a courtesy 
car. 
Based on what the parties have said and submitted its my understanding that Miss P 
wasnt able to use the car, or had no access to a courtesy car, between November 2020 
and April 2021 inclusive. So, in my view, Miss P should fairly get a refund of the payments 
she made during this time. 
Im also of the view that being without the car, and Santanders handling of her claim and 
then her complaint about the same, has caused her a degree of both distress and 
inconvenience for which she should also be fairly compensated for. And taking everything 
into account I think £300 represents a fair sum for Santander to have to pay in this respect.
Finally, its my understanding that Santander hasnt registered with one or more credit 
reference agencies any adverse information in respect of Miss Ps agreement. But if it has, I 
find that its only fair and reasonable that this adverse information is removed.
I then went on to outline precisely what Santander needed to do to fairly and reasonably 
compensate Miss P.Santander responded to say that it agreed with my provisional decision in the main but:
Its unfair that Miss P should have her April 2021 monthly payment refunded given 
how early in that month her car was repaired and given that she had the use of a 
courtesy car whist her car was being repaired.
£300 for distress and inconvenience is excessive and £150 would be a more 
appropriate sum to be awarded in this respect.
Miss P responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision and that it was entirely 
appropriate to not have her April 2021 monthly payment refunded to her.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given what both parties have said in response to my provisional decision, all Im now 
required to do is to address Santanders submission that £300 is an excessive sum for me to 
award Miss P for distress and inconvenience.
In its response to my provisional decision Santander made reference to another case 
considered by our service where we awarded the consumer £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Im fully aware of the case Santander has referred me to. But I would remind Santander that 
Im not bound by what one or more of my colleagues might, or might not, have concluded in 
the past. This is because each case is considered on its own facts and merits. 
I would also point out that Im aware of a number of cases, not dissimilar to Miss Ps, where 
our service has awarded £300 or more for distress and inconvenience.
However, for the avoidance of doubt, I can confirm that Ive reconsidered what might 
constitute a fair and reasonable sum to award Miss P, in this case, for distress and 
inconvenience. And having done so I can confirm that I remain of the view that £300 is 
appropriate and for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must:
refund any monthly payments made by Miss P between November 2020 and 
March 2021 inclusive
pay interest on the above refunded amounts from the date of each payment until the 
date of settlement at 8% simple per year*
pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience this whole matter has caused Miss P
remove any adverse information from Miss Ps credit file in relation to the agreement
* Santander Consumer (UK) Plc is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from 
any interest paid. Should Miss P request it, Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should provide 
her with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she 
can reclaim it.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman