DRN-4042156
Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct) havent refunded 
them after Mr B fell victim to a scam.
Background
In August 2022, Mr B wanted to buy a van. He found an advert online for a used van that 
was available at a good price, given its year of manufacture, model and mileage. He 
contacted the seller to ask if it was still available.
The seller said that there was significant interest in the van but that he could secure it by 
paying an upfront deposit. Mr B used a third-party website to conduct several checks to 
satisfy himself that the vehicle wasnt subject to finance, wasnt stolen and so on. These 
suggested there were no obvious concerns regarding the vehicle so Mr B paid the deposit of 
£1,950 using his HSBC account. Unfortunately, when he wanted to arrange to collect the 
van it was no longer possible to contact the seller. He realised that hed fallen victim to a 
scam and so he contacted HSBC.
It considered his complaint under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code and didnt agree to reimburse him. It thought he hadnt 
taken reasonable care in the circumstances. It thought he shouldnt, for example, have 
transferred any money before seeing the van in person. They also considered that the price 
the van was being offered for sale was too good to be true. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the response he received from HSBC and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The 
Investigator agreed with HSBCs argument that Mr B ought to have been more cautious, 
particularly given the price that the van was available for. He thought it was fair and 
reasonable for it to rely on one of the exceptions to reimbursement in the Code.
Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He also added that he didnt think HSBC had 
done enough to recover his funds from the fraudster. It had contacted the receiving bank in 
an attempt to recover his funds but nothing was left in the account  but he argues that it 
could and should have gone further than this.
As Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position here is that Mr B authorised the payment. Under the relevant 
regulations, he is therefore considered liable for it at first instance. However, that isnt the 
end of the story. HSBC had a range of other obligations in respect of fraud prevention. 
Broadly summarised, HSBC was also expected to:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
HSBC is also a signatory to the CRM Code. That Code starts with the assumption that, 
where a customer is a victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam like this one, the 
firm should refund their losses, unless a relevant exception applies. It is for HSBC to 
establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under one or more of the 
listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
The relevant exception here is where the customer made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the 
payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they 
transacted was legitimate.
Ive considered this point carefully and I agree with HSBC that Mr B made this payment 
without a reasonable basis for believing it was in connection with a genuine sale. Although I 
can see that Mr B carried out some important checks using the vehicles registration number, 
I do think the price at which it was listed was an indication that it might not be a legitimate 
sale. From what Ive seen, there wasnt any particular reason given as to why it was being 
offered a such a low price. 
In the circumstances, I think Mr B ought to have proceeded only with caution. Unfortunately, 
I dont think he did so. He paid the deposit for the van before hed had the chance to see it. 
This was despite the fact that the warning displayed when he made the payment advised 
him that if youre paying for a high value item like a car, make sure you see it before making 
a payment. I recognise that Mr B only did so because the scammer created a false sense of 
urgency by telling him there were other interested parties. But for the reasons Ive explained, 
I think he acted hastily here and so I agree with HSBC that its fair for it to rely on this 
exception to reimbursement.
I also thought about whether HSBCs account monitoring ought to have flagged up this 
payment as one where there was an increased risk of fraud. In such circumstances, it would 
be expected to take steps to protect its customer  either by displaying a warning or pausing 
a payment until its had the opportunity to speak to the customer.
We now know with the benefit of hindsight that Mr B was in contact with a fraudster. 
However, the question I must consider is whether that risk ought to have been clear to 
HSBC given what it knew at the time.
Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that it wouldve had any reasonable basis for suspecting 
that this payment had a fraud risk associated with it. Ive looked at the statements for Mr and 
Mrs Bs account and I can see that there are a number of larger legitimate transfers in the 
months prior to the scam. This payment simply wouldnt have stood out as being a cause for 
concern.Recovery of funds
HSBC is also expected to take reasonable and prompt action to aid in the recovery of funds 
where one of its customers falls victim to a scam. I can see that it contacted the receiving 
bank (the bank that operated the scammers account) swiftly. Unfortunately, by the time that 
notification was sent the funds had already been moved out of that account.
Mr B has said that HSBC ought to do more than merely send a notification to the receiving 
bank and that it should be actively cooperating with the police to recover his money. I 
understand his strength of feeling on this, but the actions HSBC took meant it complied with 
its obligations. From the cases weve seen, if the funds arent stopped while in the receiving 
account, the likelihood is that they will quickly become untraceable, split amongst multiple 
accounts and mixed with other fraudulently acquired funds and eventually exit the banking 
system altogether. HSBC does have obligations to cooperate with active police 
investigations but those wont necessarily involve the successful recovery of individual 
losses. There are additional obligations that apply to the receiving bank, but those will looked 
into as part of the separate complaint Mr B has raised against it. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman