DRN-3367583
The complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) linked a recent claim on his pet insurance 
policy to a previous condition with a maximum claim limit.
What happened
Mr Cs pet recently developed lameness and was diagnosed with bulging discs. Shed had 
spine problems before but the condition had been fine for about four years. Mr C is unhappy 
that his insurer linked the claims together. This meant the recent treatment would be affected 
by the maximum £8,000 policy limit on the original condition.
Mr C said there was nothing to show the recent lameness was connected to the earlier spine 
problems and his vet had confirmed the same thing to UKI. So hed like UKI to accept the 
recent treatment as a new condition as far as the pet insurance policy is concerned.
UKI said Mr Cs pet had been diagnosed with lumbosacral disease in 2016 after a spell of 
lameness. Shed received therapy and medication until later 2020. And in April 2021 the pet 
had developed lameness again. 
UKI reviewed the pets medical history and the vets notes for the recent treatment. And it felt 
it was a continuation of the ongoing lumbosacral disease claim. MRI scan results from June 
2021 showed the degenerative disc disease causing the lumbosacral disease had 
progressed. Bony growths had developed at the lumbosacral junction. And that indicated 
things were getting worse.
UKI said itd made its conclusion based on what most likely to have happened. In order for 
the recent treatment to be considered as a new claim it would need to see the lameness was 
due to a disc bulge  and that the disc bulge was unrelated to the lumbosacral disease. But 
neither Mr C nor his vet had been able to show that was the case. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied with UKIs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. Our investigator considered the vets opinion and the conclusion of 
UKIs in-house expert. But he wasnt entirely persuaded by UKIs conclusion that the original 
condition had worsened. Mr Cs vet had stated there was no deterioration in the spinal 
condition. And our investigator felt the vet was better placed to make that determination as 
shed physically examined the pet. 
Our investigator didnt think UKI had sufficiently demonstrated that the conditions were 
definitely linked. So he felt Mr C should be given the benefit of doubt here. And UKI should 
accept this as a new claim.
UKI didnt agree with our investigator. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. The 
disc protrusion at L2/L3 wasnt an unrelated condition. The MRI scan had confirmed the 
diagnosis of intervertebral disc disease, which UKI said had been the cause of the pets 
issues since 2016. So UKI felt itd processed the claim correctly and within the policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all here. The 
main issue is whether the treatment claimed for from April 2021 is a new condition, as Mr C 
believes, or whether UKI has acted fairly and in line with the policy terms when considering it 
as part of ongoing treatment dating back to 2016 and therefore subject to the maximum limit 
set out in the pet insurance policy terms.
Mr Cs pet insurance policy provides cover for up to £8,000 of vet fees for each separate 
condition. There is no time limit for the period each condition is covered for. And a condition 
is defined as any injury or illness or any symptoms or signs of injury or illness, including 
related conditions or problems, no matter where these are noticed or happen in or on your 
pet.
Ive looked carefully at everything Mr C and UKI have said. Mr Cs vet has arrived at a 
different conclusion to UKI. So Ive made my decision in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr Cs vet initially felt lumbosacral issues had caused the hock swelling. But in a follow-up 
letter they clarified the pet had swelling in the hock and pain in the sacroiliac joint  but no 
lumbosacral pain. The vet said over time itd become apparent the swollen hock had been 
caused by altered pelvic alignment and gait that was being caused by pain elsewhere in the 
back.
The vet recommended an MRI scan which showed no progression of the lumbosacral 
disease. The scan had identified an intervertebral disc lesion at L2-L3. And that was 
believed to be the cause of the current pain and issue  not the previously diagnosed 
lumbosacral disease. 
After carrying out the treatment and studying the MRI scan, the treating vet believes the 
lumbosacral disease hadnt worsened or progressed. The lameness and pain were being 
caused by an intervertebral disc lesion at L2/L3. And it should be treated as a separate 
condition to the previous treatment.
UKI believed the recent treatment was related to an ongoing issue. Itd accepted previous 
treatment as a continuation of previous claims for lumbosacral disease/disc protrusion L7/S1 
starting in 2016. 
UKI said its understanding was that intervertebral disc herniation was the most common 
cause of lumbosacral disease. Intervertebral disc disease (IVDD) was a progressive disease 
and the most common spinal disease in dogs. And there was a relationship between the 
bone spurs noted in the MRI scan and IVDD.
The MRI scan had identified changes to several spinal discs. That indicated IVDD, which 
now appeared to be affecting the L2/L3 disc region. UKI said the clinical signs and MRI scan 
confirmed the diagnosis of IVDD. Itd been the cause of the pets issues since 2016 and the 
disc protrusion at L2/L3 wasnt a medically unrelated condition.
Ive noted UKIs comment that it isnt always necessary to examine the pet to make a 
diagnosis. And Ive considered the insurers response explaining why it believes the recent 
treatment was a continuation of the treatment provided to the pet over a number of years in 
relation to the L7/S1 area. Ive looked carefully at the pets medical history and UKIs response. But I dont think UKI 
has done enough to persuade me to disregard the expert opinion of the vet treating Mr Cs 
pet. On this occasion, where there were existing problems relating to the pets spine, I think 
the additional benefit of examination will have helped the vet reach their analysis. The vet 
treating Mr Cs pet confirmed the lumbosacral disease hadnt worsened. And she believed 
the treatment claimed for was unrelated to the previous condition.
Putting things right
Ive carefully considered the information provided by both parties. And I recognise that UKI 
will not agree with this decision. But on this occasion Im more persuaded by the opinion of 
the vet treating Mr Cs pet. 
UKI should accept the treatment from April 2021 as a new condition under the terms and 
conditions of the pet insurance policy. It shouldnt be linked to the previous claims or subject 
to the £8,000 maximum limit applied to that condition.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct UK Insurance Ltd to carry out the 
steps Ive outlined in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman