DRN-3207786
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as V, complains about the handling by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
of a change to its account mandate.
Mr B, the director of V, brings the complaint on V's behalf. V has also been represented by 
Mr A, who was significantly involved in Vs interactions with Barclays.
What happened
In 2019, Barclays notified V that its mandate was out of date. In January 2020, V responded 
but Barclays said that the forms submitted were incomplete and didnt include all the 
required supporting evidence. In February 2020, V sent in further documents, but these still 
failed to meet Barclays requirements.
The correspondence between V and Barclays continued for several months. 
By September 2020, Barclays had received most of the documentation required but it said it 
was still awaiting the companys constitutional document, which it explained was necessary 
to ensure that the process set down by the company for a change to the banking mandate 
was being followed. 
By this time, Mr A was deeply frustrated with the process and he raised a complaint. 
Barclays reviewed what had happened but said that it was unable to proceed with the 
change in mandate without Vs constitutional document.
As Mr A remained disappointed with Barclays handling of the mandate change, he brought 
Vs complaint to us. Mr A provided evidence that he had engaged with Barclays in June 
2020 and had sought confirmation that the documents he was planning to submit to 
authorise the change in mandate were sufficient. He also provided evidence that in early 
July 2020 he spoke to Barclays and claims that, in that call, Barclays assured him that no 
further documentation was required. However, unfortunately, there is no recording of that 
call. 
Recognising that there was at least a conversation between Barclays and Mr A in July 2020, 
and that Barclays only clarified in September 2020 that further documentation was still 
required, Barclays has now offered V £100 in compensation. 
Mr A has described this offer as derisory and says that the additional fees and expenses V 
incurred to provide the required documentation amount to much more. He says that a large 
payment to his accountant included a charge of €2,000 to gather and provide the required 
documentation; and, in addition, V has suffered lost time and productivity from Barclays 
misinformation.
An investigator considered Vs complaint and said that she thought the £100 offered by 
Barclays was fair. As Mr A didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the engagement between Barclays and Mr A to change Vs mandate has 
caused Mr A significant frustration. Its taken a long time and still the mandate hasnt been 
changed.
Barclays operates under certain regulatory requirements and I can understand why it 
requested the documents it did to authorise the mandate change. Most of these documents 
were supplied by V, but not all of them. Specifically, Barclays requested a Board resolution, 
or later Vs constitutional document, in order to verify that the correct process had been 
followed. But it appears that neither document was supplied.
While I acknowledge the frustration Mr A has felt through this process, I think the requests 
made by Barclays have been reasonable and, therefore, I dont believe that Barclays has 
done anything wrong in seeking this documentation. For this reason, I dont think I can fairly 
ask Barclays to compensate V for the time and expense of its accountants in gathering this 
information, or for any associated lost time and productivity for V.
Barclays has acknowledged that a call between its relationship manager and V took place in 
the summer of 2020, and has also acknowledged that, following this call, there was a delay 
of a couple of months before it clarified again the outstanding documentation required. For 
this it has offered to pay V £100.
While we cannot be sure what information was provided by Barclays to V in that call, I 
believe the ensuing delay before Barclays clarified the situation could have been avoided. 
This delay caused V some additional inconvenience. To put this right, I believe the £100 
offered to V is fair.
Therefore, I require Barclays to pay V £100, but I do not require it to take any further action.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay V £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman