DRN-4092707
The complaint
Mr A and Ms N complain about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) poor service and 
lack of communication, following a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A and Ms N contacted Fairmead to make a claim for a suspected leak, as cracks had 
formed in their home. Mr A and Ms N described experiencing weeks of delays and poor 
communication from Fairmead.  Although Fairmead sent a contractor, they were unable to 
locate the leak and Fairmead advised that a trace and access would be needed to find the 
leak, as there were no obvious signs of water damage.
Mr A and Ms N complained to Fairmead due to the lack of progress of the claim. Fairmead 
eventually told Mr A and Ms N that they would need to pay an excess of £500.  Mr A and Ms 
N explained that they asked Fairmead about the costs of the repair as they wanted to decide 
whether to pay the excess or not. That is, if the excess was going to cost more than the 
repair, then they wouldnt want to pay for the excess. Mr A said that Fairmead, told them that 
this couldnt be provided. 
Mr A and Ms N also said that Fairmead arranged for a contractor to attend their home, in 
order to collect the excess, without telling them. Mr A said that had he not discovered that 
Fairmead were due to do this, then they wouldve been put under pressure to pay the 
excess.  Consequently, Mr A and Ms N chose to cancel the claim with Fairmead and to look 
for an independent contractor to carry out the work.
In its final response, Fairmead accepted that there had been poor communication and 
delays. It apologised for the poor service that Mr A and Ms N experienced. It offered to pay 
compensation of £300 for the trouble and upset caused. It also offered to consider the costs 
of their independent contractor once Mr A and Ms N submitted it. 
As Mr A and Ms N were given their referral rights, they referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Fairmead had been fair to recognise the poor service issues, and to offer the 
compensation of £300, which he said was in line with our guidelines on compensation.  He 
also thought it was reasonable to offer to consider the invoice once Mr A and Ms N 
submitted it.
Fairmead accepted the view, Mr A and Ms N did not. They said that the issue was that 
Fairmead wouldnt give them details of the cost of the repairs, which they specifically asked 
for.  Also, that Fairmead failed to tell them that they would be sending a contractor to collect 
the excess, which caused them additional distress. They accepted that the compensation 
offered was fair. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr A and Ms N, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether Mr A and Ms N requested from Fairmead costing 
details before paying the required £500 excess payment. Mr A and Ms N also said that 
Fairmead failed to tell them that they would be sending a contractor to collect the excess 
payment. So, I will concentrate my findings on these issues. 
Both parties accept that there were avoidable delays and poor communication. Fairmead 
apologised for those issues and offered to pay Mr A and Ms N compensation of £300 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
I understand that Mr A and Ms N wish to accept the offer of compensation and have said 
that they have yet to receive it. Based on the evidence before me, I cant see that Mr A and 
Ms N previously indicated to Fairmead that they wished to accept the compensation. But 
now that they have indicated this, I would advise that they contact Fairmead directly, to 
arrange payment of the compensation. 
Turning to whether Mr A or Ms N directly asked questions regarding the costs of the repair 
and the excess payment, I asked Fairmead for any evidence regarding the contact it had 
with Mr A and Ms N. It provided call records/notes. 
Having carefully considered those notes, I cant see that Mr A or Ms N specifically asked 
Fairmead about costs of the repair works. I also cant agree that Fairmead declined to give 
information about how much the claim wouldve cost:
when calling he was unhappy with the call as it was unknown advised we call out of 
unknown with all calls if he is unhappy with confirming DPA he can call the number on his 
policy he declined and continued on with the call I explained the excess and the limit for 
trace and access he isnt happy with the cost for the contractors initial attendance as they 
didnt find the leak so he thinks they shouldnt be paid advised this isnt our process and the 
payment isnt his concern or his choice his insurance company will dictate how the funds will 
be used and what will be paid he isnt happy with this I advised it is more his opinion rather 
than our process he is focused on and he should understand he cannot say what we can 
and cant pay.
Fairmead explained that its call handlers wouldnt have declined to speak to Mr A and Ms N 
about the costs of the claim. But what they actually asked Fairmead for was how it was 
paying the contractor, as Mr A felt that the contractor shouldnt be paid. Fairmead further 
explained to Mr A that this information wasnt something that it would inform Mr A of, as this 
had nothing to do directly with his claim.  
I understand that Mr A felt that this wasnt the case, but he has provided me with no other 
evidence that refutes the above. Consequently, Im persuaded that Fairmead didnt declined 
to give Mr A and Ms N information regarding the costs of repair. I note that there was a 
discussion regarding the excess and the limit for the trace and access, but not to the extent 
of Fairmead declining to discuss the costs of the claim. I have next looked at whether Fairmead sent a contractor to collect the excess payment. Mr 
A said that Fairmead attempted to send a contractor to collect the excess payment. I note 
that this incident didnt actually take place, based on the evidence Ive read. Our service will 
only base our findings on what has actually happened, rather than what hasnt actually 
happened. As, this didnt happen, Im unable to decide on this. 
Finally, Fairmead confirmed that as Mr A and Ms N decided to use their own contractor, it 
has offered to consider the invoice once it has been settled. So, Mr A and Ms N ought to 
send it to Fairmead for consideration, which I think is fair. 
Whilst I understand how disappointed Mr A and Ms N will be, I dont think that Fairmead did 
anything wrong here. Im satisfied that it was fair for it to offer to pay compensation of £300 
for the trouble and upset caused. I also think that it didnt decline to discuss repair costs with 
Mr A and Ms N. Nor did it send a contractor to their home to collect the excess payment.      
Consequently, I cant reasonably ask Fairmead to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman