DRN-3217580
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) handled 
the renewal on her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs C had annual travel insurance provided by Amex. She was notified each year of the up 
and coming automatic renewal date by a notification sent to her email address. 
In July 2020, Mrs C noticed that a sum had been deducted from her bank account for the 
premium for a new travel insurance policy. But she said she hadnt received any notification 
of the policy renewal and was therefore not expecting an automatic renewal and a premium 
charge. 
Mrs C contacted Amex to complain. She also raised concerns that her data had been shared 
with the insurer without her consent.  Amex responded to the complaint and said the renewal 
notification had been sent by email in line with what was expected of them. And it quoted the 
email address for Mrs C that the renewal notification had been dispatched to. However, the 
email address Amex quoted was incorrect. So, Mrs C said the reason she hadnt received 
the renewal notification was because it had been sent to the wrong email address. 
Amex then issued a further response to say the email address they had referred to in their 
previous complaint response was incorrect due to a typing error. Amex confirmed the 
renewal notification had been sent to the correct email address for Mrs C  the same one all 
previous years renewal notifications had been dispatched to.  
Mrs C remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think Amex had 
acted unfairly because they had provided evidence to show the 2020 renewal notification 
was sent to Mrs Cs correct email address. 
Mrs C didnt agree the renewal notification for 2020 had been sent to her. In summary she 
said:
If she had fallen ill abroad then her claim would have been declined because her 
health had changed and she hadnt had a chance to declare it before she was 
charged the new years premium.
She remained unhappy Amex shared her data with the insurer without her knowledge 
as this was a breach of her information rights.  And she didnt think this had been 
addressed in our findings.
Mrs C also requested a copy of the screen shot evidence the investigator had relied on to 
confirm the email address the renewal notification was sent to. So the investigator sent this 
over to her. He also confirmed he didnt think Amex had acted unfairly by sharing her data 
with the insurer. He explained he was satisfied Amex handled the renewal of the policy 
correctly, and as they didnt receive a response, they were entitled to automatically renew in 
line with their policy terms  which would involve sharing data with the insurer. 
Mrs C remained unhappy. She said Amex told her they used an incorrect email address in 
their first response to her complaint. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms set out Amexs responsibility regarding renewals: 
Renewals
A renewal notice will be sent to you before the end of the period of insurance,
explaining how the process will work. Should you want to amend your policy, declare
any pre-existing medical conditions or cancel your policy, please call us on 0800 028
7573. Lines are open Monday to Friday 9:00 - 17:00.
The Intermediary
American Express Insurance Services will provide you with renewal terms
offered by their travel insurance provider at the time of your renewal. A renewal
notice will be sent to you before the end of the period of insurance, explaining how
this will work. If you do not wish to renew your Policy with the current or any new
insurer, you will need to contact American Express Insurance Services by calling
0800 028 7573, at least 30 days prior to the expiry of your Policy. If American
Express Insurance Service does not hear from you, your Policy will be renewed
automatically.
So, Amex is entitled to automatically renew the travel insurance policy should it not hear 
back from a policyholder following the notification of a renewal. 
I can see Amex has caused confusion in their first response to Mrs Cs complaint. The 
complaint department quoted her email address and missed out a letter. It also appears they 
tried to use that incorrect address to send their complaint response, but it bounced back. 
However, there isnt anything to suggest this incorrect address is the one used by the insurer 
to send out the renewal notification on Amexs behalf. So, Im persuaded its most likely the 
incorrect email address was just a typing error by the complaints department in their first 
response. 
Amex has been unable to provide a copy of the actual 2020 renewal email that was sent, but 
I dont think this is unusual. Amex has been able to provide screen shots of Mrs Cs renewal 
correspondence entries each year from 2015.  
Ive carefully reviewed these screenshots. They display the name of the correspondence, the 
method of contact, the date of dispatch and the recipient address. The renewal entries for 
2020 are the same as all the previous years from 2015.The document listed as 35 day 
renewal is always sent in June, dispatched by email, to the same email address. 
Mrs Cs email address has not been changed or amended between 2019 and 2020. And she 
has confirmed she received all the previous years renewal notifications that were sent to the 
same email address. So on balance, Im not persuaded the 2020 renewal notification was 
incorrectly sent. 
The entry for 2020 shows a 35 day renewal was sent to Mrs Cs correct email address on 
19 June 2020. This letter confirmed that the policy was due to renew in the coming 35 days if 
they didnt hear anything back. The policy then renewed 26 days later, which is in line with this statement and a reasonable period of notice. So I dont think it was unfair for Amex to 
progress with the policy renewal as they didnt receive a response from Mrs C. 
Mrs C is also unhappy that Amex shared her data with the insurer without her knowledge. In 
particular her bank details. 
The policy terms relevant to sharing data say: 
Personal Information
If your insurance application is accepted by American Express Insurance Services and
AXA and you are issued a Certificate of Insurance and Policy wording, you also agree
that American Express Insurance Services and AXA may:
-disclose and use information about you and your insurance cover  including
information relating to your medical status and health  to companies within the
American Express and AXA group of companies worldwide, their partners, service
providers and agents in order to administer and service your account/insurance
cover (and arrange the renewal thereof) process and collect relevant payments on
it, for fraud prevention and to manage the benefits or insurance programmes in
which you are enrolled;
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Amex to share the necessary information required in order 
for the insurer to set up the renewal. And for the reasons already explained above, Im 
persuaded Amex handled the renewal notification correctly, so it was fair for them to 
progress to this stage and pass over the relevant data to the insurer. This includes 
information required to charge the premium. And Im also mindful that as Mrs Cs policy had 
been in place for four years prior to this, Im not sure what, if any, new bank information 
wouldve been shared in 2020 that hadnt already been shared to set up previous renewals 
in earlier years. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, but Im not upholding this complain because on balance Im 
persuaded Amex provided the renewal notification to the correct email address. So, in the 
absence of hearing anything from Mrs C, it was fair for them to arrange for the policy to 
renew with the insurer. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman