DRN-1600962
The complaint
Mr B complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) lost his phone, took too 
long to realise this, and too long to reimburse him for this loss.
What happened
Mr B has a mobile phone insurance, provided by AIG, included as part of his bank account. 
In October 2019, his phone was damaged, and so he contacted AIG to make a repair claim. 
Mr B was unhappy with the repair options available  his policy only provided for a mail-in 
repair option, whereas he wanted to take the phone to a local repairer - so he didnt proceed 
with the claim immediately. However, he phoned AIG again 13 days later and officially 
submitted his claim. AIG sent a courier to collect the phone the following day. 
There followed a series of phone calls between Mr B and AIG, during which he chased up 
the progress of his claim. AIG were unable to locate the whereabouts of Mr Bs phone, and 
admit their agent gave incorrect information to Mr B regarding his claim progress. During this 
period, AIG offered a replacement phone, but Mr B declined this because AIG were only 
offering a refurbished model. He wanted a new one or an upgraded model. After further 
discussions, and after Mr B had raised a complaint, AIG agreed to reimburse Mr B the 
equivalent cost of a new model - £899, together with £130 compensation for AIGs service 
failings. This offer was made 32 days after Mr Bs phone was collected by AIGs courier. 
Whilst Mr B accepted this offer, he brought his complaint to us because he didnt think the 
compensation offered was sufficient given the length of time he was without his phone, and 
for the amount of time hed spent chasing AIG for updates. Our investigator agreed, 
increasing the compensation to £300. He said AIG should have realised much sooner that 
Mr Bs phone was missing, this delay causing Mr B to contact AIG many more times than he 
needed to. And that Mr B had to buy another handset early in the claim journey due to the 
claim uncertainty, that hed suffered a loss of enjoyment as the phone was lost, and he 
reiterated Mr B had experienced poor communication throughout. 
AIG responded, accepting Mr B had experienced poor service in places. But they disagreed 
with our investigators view in other parts - Mr B had sourced an alternative phone before he 
finally submitted his claim, so there was no inconvenience experienced being without a 
phone during the claim period. And AIG questioned whether they needed to increase 
compensation because of Mr Bs loss of enjoyment of his phone. They asked for the case 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman, and so its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision, Im focussing only on the inconvenience experienced by Mr B during the 
claim process  he accepted AIGs cash offer to allow him to buy a new replacement phone, 
and so theres no need to revisit that issue. However, to do this, I need to begin by looking at 
what Mr Bs policy provides. The relevant parts say as follows:
a. If, during the period of cover, your phone is lost or stolen, we will, through our 
agent provide you with a replacement phone
b. If, during the period of cover, your phone is damaged we will repair your phone, 
either by having you mail in your phone to us, you taking your phone to our repair 
agent or our repair agent coming to your location. We will discuss the available repair 
options with you when you make your claim. If we are unable to repair your phone, 
we will provide you with a replacement phone.
c. If we replace your phone, we will replace you with a refurbished model. 
Mr B made his initial claim because his phone was damaged. When he first contacted AIG to 
make a claim, AIG offered him a mail-in repair option. Mr B was unhappy with this  he 
wanted to take the phone to a local brand-approved repairer. But because that repairer 
wasnt on AIGs approved list, they refused. Mr B didnt proceed with the claim at that point, 
and complained about this, but I dont think AIG did anything wrong here  they offered to 
repair the phone in line with his policy terms. 
Mr B did submit his claim 13 days later, and AIG sent a courier to collect the damaged 
phone the next day, with a standard repair time of between 3-5 days. Its what happened 
after Mr Bs phone was collected that Ill be focussing on here. Its accepted the phone never 
reached its intended repair depot, and effectively became lost. Its also not in dispute Mr B 
had to make many phone calls to AIG to chase for updates, or that he was given conflicting 
and incorrect information by AIGs agents. AIG initially offered to replace Mr Bs phone with a 
refurbished model  which is what the policy provides for in the event Mr B had lost his 
phone. After further discussions, and AIGs management reviewing the matter, AIG agreed 
to provide Mr B with a cash offer to purchase a new replacement handset. I think this was 
the right thing to do, as AIG lost the phone, not Mr B. Mr B has accepted this. 
However, I think the time taken to reach that conclusion was excessive. The cash offer was 
made to Mr B on 19 November, just over a month after his phone was initially collected, and 
more than three weeks after hed have reasonably expected his phone to be repaired and 
returned. Ive looked at AIGs contact notes and think there were many opportunities to have 
realised the phone was missing, allowing the cash offer to be made much earlier than it was. 
Mr B made many calls to AIG, and certainly by the time of his third contact with them  on 29 
October  Id have expected AIG to have realised the phone was missing, and at this point I 
think it would have been reasonable for AIG to have offered the cash settlement option. 
They didnt, and Mr B had to continue to chase for nearly three more weeks. So, the 
question for me is whether the £130 compensation AIG offered is a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience Mr B experienced in this period. And in these circumstances, I dont think it is. 
I agree with AIG that Mr B wasnt without a replacement phone during his claim journey  
hed bought a basic model before submitting his claim. But Mr B was inconvenienced by 
having to chase AIG for about three weeks longer than he should reasonably have been 
expected to. And, this included submitting a subject access request, and reviewing the 
contents of AIGs response. This would have taken up a considerable amount of Mr Bs time, 
and whilst I agree it was his choice to do this, it wouldnt have been necessary if the cash 
settlement offer been made earlier than it was. And, the fact remains AIG lost his phone, 
which is likely to have contained personal information that was important to him.  Putting things right
Taking all the above into consideration, I think compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B experienced can fairly and reasonably be assessed at £300 in total. So, 
I think AIG need to pay Mr B a further £170 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require American International Group UK Limited to pay him 
an extra £170 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman