DRN-3751469
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited was late in paying her 
the monthly benefit shed been receiving as a result of a claim made on her permanent 
health insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs N had been receiving the monthly benefit due under her permanent health insurance 
policy for a long time. Payment was made on or before the 28th of each month.
Mrs N didnt receive the monthly benefit due from Scottish Friendly on 28 October 2021. 
When she queried this, she was told that the payment had been processed on 26 October 
2021.
Mrs N says she called her bank on 1 November 2021 and it said payment hadnt been 
received into her bank account and when she contacted Scottish Friendly again about this, 
she was told that although the payment had been processed, it hadnt been paid until 29 
October 2021. It could take three working days to reach her account. Scottish Friendly 
apologised for the error and said that if Mrs N did receive any bank charges as a result of 
receiving the monthly benefit late, to let it know and it would consider reimbursing her for 
those charges. 
It also treated Mrs Ns concerns as a complaint. Shortly after Scottish Friendly wrote to her 
to confirm that it was investigating what happened. It subsequently wrote to her again to say 
it was still investigating but as itd had its eight weeks to investigate her concerns - but hadnt 
yet provided her with a final response - she was able to bring her complaint to our service. 
Thats what Mrs N did. 
After Mrs Ns complaint was brought to our service, in March 2022, Scottish Friendly issued 
its final response. It:
- apologised for the delay in responding to Mrs Ns complaint and for the issue with the 
monthly payment;
- said there was an error with its BACS file which affected some of its policyholders but 
the issue shouldnt happen again;
- paid Mrs N £50 compensation and repeated its position that if shed incurred any 
additional costs because of the late payment due in October 2021, it would consider 
reimbursement if Mrs N could provide evidence of the costs. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt think £50 fairly reflected the distress 
and inconvenience Mrs N experienced here. He recommended Scottish Friendly pay Mrs N 
further compensation in the sum of £100  totalling £150. 
Mrs N accepted this as a fair resolution of her complaint but Scottish Friendly disagreed. It 
explained why it felt the compensation already paid to Mrs N was fair.  Our investigator 
maintained his view that compensation totalling £150 was fair and reasonable. So, Mrs Ns 
complaint has been referred to me to consider everything afresh and determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scottish Friendly has an obligation to treat customers fairly.
It isnt disputed that Mrs N shouldve received the monthly benefit due under the policy on 28 
October 2021. Scottish Friendly accept that shed previously received the monthly payment 
on or before the 28th of each month.
Although Mrs N didnt end up being financially disadvantaged by receiving the monthly 
payment several days later than she ought to have (for example bank charges), from 
listening to the call she had with Scottish Friendly on 1 November 2021, I can tell she was 
worried that the late payment might result in her account going into its overdraft as she was 
expecting direct debit payments to be collected from her account. 
It doesnt look like she received any bank charges but that doesnt mean that she wasnt 
worried about receiving the late payment of the monthly benefit. Particularly as she said it 
made up around half of her monthly income, which Ive no reason to doubt. 
Shes also said that she spent considerable time on the phone to her bank about whether 
the payment had been received and thats because she was told by Scottish Friendly that 
the payment had been authorised on 26 October 2021 but it transpires it wasnt paid until 29 
October 2021. She also had to spend unnecessary time liaising with Scottish Friendly about 
its error. This all caused her unnecessary inconvenience. 
Mrs N lives with a medical condition and says the unnecessary stress caused by Scottish 
Friendly aggravated it. I havent seen any medical records, but Im prepared to accept what 
she says about that. Looking at a societys website for this condition, it says people with this 
condition often find stress impacts their condition in some way.  
Im also satisfied that Mrs N was concerned about why the delay in payment happened. It 
hadnt happened previously and its reasonable for her to want to know the reason for the 
error to assure herself that it wasnt likely to happen again. Although, she was promptly told 
on 1 November 2021 that it was likely shed receive payment within the next few days and 
shed received an apology, she didnt know of the reason behind the delayed payment until 
several months later. She received updates that Scottish Friendly were still investigating but 
not knowing the reason meant she didnt know whether it was likely to happen again.
So, I dont think the £50 compensation paid to Mrs N by Scottish Friendly is fair and 
reasonable in this case. I think £150 more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience 
shed experienced as a result of what Scottish Friendly did wrong here. So, I think it should 
pay her additional compensation in the sum of £100. I know Mrs N has told our service that the same issue has more recently happened again. 
But as thats happened since bringing the complaint to our service, shed need to raise her 
further concerns with Scottish Friendly in the first instance. I havent looked at this additional 
issue as part of this complaint or taken it into account when determining fair compensation.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from the date on which we notify Scottish Friendly that Mrs N accepts this 
final decision, I direct it to pay her an additional £100 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, making the total sum £150. 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ns complaint and direct Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman