DRN-3188815
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi) rejected the claim he made under 
sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
(Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC). Hitachi is represented 
in this complaint by its parent company, Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc.)
Background
On 10 June 2014, Mr M bought a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. This purchase was financed through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Hitachi, brokered by the third party and dated the same day. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In June 2020 the CMC sent a letter to Hitachi, on Mr Ms behalf, alleging various 
misrepresentations by the supplier of the panels and asking for compensation under section 
75 of the Act. This letter was dated 9 June 2020, but both parties agree that it was sent by 
email on the next day, Wednesday 10 June.
Hitachi issued a final response letter in which it said that the claim was time-barred under the 
Limitation Act 1980, since Mr M had actually agreed to buy the system in May 2014, which 
was also the date of the alleged misrepresentations. More than six years had passed since 
then. Nevertheless, Hitachi also went on to address the merits of the claim, but it did not 
agree that any misrepresentations had been made.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr M brought this complaint to our service, 
represented by the CMC. The CMC argued that the six-year limitation period began not on 
10 June but on 26 June 2014 (being what it called the start date of the loan agreement).
One of our adjudicators looked into this case. She thought that Hitachi had confused matters 
by first raising the limitation period but then also going on to consider the merits of the claim, 
which was ambiguous. In response, Hitachi paid Mr R £350 as a gesture of good will, but still 
maintained that the claim was time-barred. The adjudicator thought that this payment was 
fair compensation for that error. And she agreed that the claim was time-barred. While she 
accepted that the CMCs claim letter had been emailed to Hitachi just in time, she thought 
that this was not enough to stop time running under the Limitation Act, as section 38 of the 
Act required that a court action be brought, not merely a claim letter. She concluded that the 
limitation period had therefore expired, and Hitachi had been entitled to rely on that in its 
defence to the claim.
Since agreement could not be reached, this case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for 
this case to reach an ombudsman.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I have considered Hitachis argument that the limitation period began in May 2014 because 
that is when the misrepresentations were allegedly made. However, a misrepresentation is 
an untrue statement of fact made by one party to a second party which induces him to enter 
the contract. The allegedly untrue statement may have been made in May, but Mr R did not 
enter the contract until June. Until that happened, I dont think a cause of action had yet 
accrued, and so I think the limitation period can have started no earlier than 10 June 2014.
The six year limitation period began the next day1 and expired at the end of 10 June 2020. 
The CMCs letter to Hitachi, sent by email on 10 June 2020, was therefore sent just within 
that period. However, I agree with the adjudicator that a letter demanding compensation is 
not enough to stop time from running for the purposes of the Limitation Act.2 So the limitation 
period expired the next day. For that reason, I think that Hitachi was entitled to reject the 
demand for compensation under section 75, since Mr R no longer had an enforceable claim.
I do not think the position is affected by Hitachis final response letter. With respect to my 
colleague, I do not agree that this letter was ambiguous or confusing, or that Hitachi gave 
the impression that it was waiving its rights under the Limitation Act. After summarising its 
understanding of what the claim was about, Hitachis response began (under the heading 
Limitation) by setting out in clear terms that the claim was time-barred, and explained why. 
That section concluded with this sentence:
Notwithstanding our primary position above, we have responded to the substantive 
allegations made for the sake of completeness. [Emphasis mine.]
I think that sentence makes Hitachis stance quite clear. The letter then went on to address 
the merits of the claim under further section headings, but it was plain that these were 
subordinate points to Hitachis principal defence which was to rely on the limitation period. 
I dont think that stance was undermined by the rest of the letter.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 See Chitty on Contracts, 34th ed., para. 31-064: the day of the act or event is be excluded from 
the computation of the period within which the action should be brought, and time begins to run from 
the following day.
2 See Chitty para. 31-066: The general principle is that once time has started to run it continues to do 
so until proceedings are commenced or the claim is barred.