DRN-1119705
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc incorrectly recorded information about a cheque 
he deposited into his savings account. Hes unhappy this error hasnt been corrected and he 
thinks the compensation hes been paid doesnt reflect the time and costs hes incurred in 
dealing with his complaint.
What happened
In late March 2018 Mr H deposited a large cheque into his Barclays Everyday Saver 
account. This cheque had been sent to him from a company, which Ill refer to as I in this 
decision. However, he noticed Barclays had recorded that the cheque had been from a 
different company. Mr H thought this may cause confusion so he asked Barclays to change 
the information it had recorded on his statement.
Barclays apologised for the statement narrative that it had entered at the time of processing 
Mr Hs cheque from I. It agreed it had made an error and upheld his complaint. However, it 
explained once a cheque had been processed and recorded on a statement it wasnt 
possible for Barclays to alter how the transaction had been recorded as to do so would be 
considered to be falsifying an official record, which is prohibited. So, it credited Mr Hs 
account with £25 to reflect the inconvenience this had caused.
Mr H was dissatisfied with Barclays response to his complaint and the compensation it had 
paid him. He didnt feel this amount adequately recognised the cost of phone calls and the 
time hed spent dealing with his complaint. So he referred his complaint it to our service.
Our investigator looked into this and, while they empathised with Mr H, they didnt think 
Barclays needed to do anything more here. They thought that £25 compensation was 
appropriate and fair. But Mr H disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr H and Barclays that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr H experienced here. I can appreciate he was 
caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. Barclays has already accepted it made a mistake in how the cheque issuer was recorded on his statement. So, the issue here 
is whether Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably in offering to put things right. 
In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that what happened 
must have been frustrating and worrying. But I think that once Barclays was aware of the 
problem, it acted correctly in consulting with its internal cheque processing team to clarify 
how the error had occurred and whether it could be corrected. From the evidence Ive seen, 
Barclays didnt delay or protract matters when it investigated what happened here. It 
candidly accepted it had made a mistake and it apologised.
I understand Mr H doesnt feel Halifax has provided an explanation of how the error came to 
take place. But based on what Ive seen I think Barclays gave Mr H a fair explanation of what 
happened, in sufficient detail, in both its final response letter and subsequent 
correspondence that it sent him. I realise that this didnt go into the level of detail Mr H 
wanted, or expected. But impartially, I think the letter gave the reasons as to why this error 
had happened and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask Barclays to do anymore here.
I know that Mr H wants Barclays to alter the information in recorded on the cheque narrative. 
But its already given him a clear explanation regarding why it cant amend its records. Were 
not the regulator of banks and building societies. So, we cant tell a business to make the 
changes that Mr H would like.
Barclays credited Mr Hs account with £25 in compensation to recognise the trouble and 
upset its error caused. But its clear he doesnt think this sum adequately reflects his 
inconvenience and experience. 
Its my role to decide whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a dispute. 
So here, I have to take into account that the error is well documented, which should 
minimise the confusion Mr H was concerned this would cause. Im satisfied that the 
information Barclays has provided Mr H will  enable him to evidence a satisfactory audit trail 
showing the error came to be made should this be necessary. 
Mr H says he spent a considerable amount of time in trying to resolve matters with Barclays 
and he said hes incurred out of pocket expenses such as the cost of telephone calls. I dont 
doubt that that this has taken up Mr Hs time. But, Im afraid I have to tell him that I agree 
with the investigators view that £25 is an appropriate amount of compensation for Barclays 
to pay for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. Its in line with our approach in similar 
scenarios. So I wont be asking Barclays to increase that amount or do anymore here.
I realise Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Barclays informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr H 
further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman