DRN-2434466
The complaint
Mr E complains about poor service from Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited (Sanlam) in
connection with putting right an error it identified with his pension investments.  
What happened
Mr E held pension investments through Sanlam. In March 2017 he gave instructions to
transfer some of his investments to a different provider, but retained others with Sanlam.
In July 2019 Sanlam told Mr E that between February 2017 and February 2018 an
underlying asset in one of the funds he remained invested in hadnt been correctly priced. 
This meant the value of the fund was artificially low. Sanlam had calculated the loss to Mr 
Es investments and said it would correct the error by allocating additional units to his 
policies.
Mr E told Sanlam some of the investments hed transferred to a different provider were
affected by the same issue. He asked Sanlam how he would be compensated in connection
with those investments.
Sanlam replied to Mr E in October 2019. For the investments Mr E had transferred it
calculated loss, plus interest, and said it would pay what it owed directly to Mr Es bank
account.
Mr E complained to Sanlam. In summary, he said:
1. redress payments for the investments hed transferred should be paid directly to the
SIPP he held with the new provider. He asked Sanlam to confirm when this would be
done.
2. he considered loss on the transferred policies should be calculated based on the
performance of funds hed transferred to.
3. he wanted to understand how loss on the current policies had been calculated, and
asked for confirmation that the calculations had been independently assessed and
agreed.
4. it was unacceptable that hed had to chase for details of redress for the transferred
policies.
5. it was unacceptable that Sanlam had compensated existing policy holders before 
those who had closed or transferred their investments.
6. he wanted Sanlam to advise whether it had reported the error to the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA).
Sanlam said it could pay the loss redress directly to Mr Es new SIPP provider, but it asked
Mr E for the relevant details and reference numbers. Mr E considered Sanlam should liaise
with the new provider to get those details. He said hed given Sanlam transfer instructions
over two years earlier, and he didnt consider it reasonable for him to get the information the
business needed to make the payment.
Sanlam also provided more detail in response to Mr Es other points. It accepted that some
of its service couldve been better and apologised to Mr E.
Mr E remained unhappy and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt consider it
unreasonable for Mr E to give Sanlam the details it needed so that redress payments could
be paid to the provider hed transferred to in 2017.
The investigator was also satisfied that annual interest of 8% simple was the correct
calculation for Mr Es loss of the use of money, rather than the performance of a fund hed
transferred to.
The investigator didnt consider it unreasonable for Sanlam to compensate existing policy
holders before those who had closed or transferred their investments.
The investigator recognised there had been errors by Sanlam, but he considered it was
taking reasonable steps to put things right. And even though there had been some delay in
sorting things out, the investigator didnt consider this was serious enough to justify
additional compensation.
Mr E had said the transfer to his new provider still hadnt been completed. The investigator
considered this was a new complaint point that Sanlam hadnt had the opportunity to
respond to when it gave its final response in December 2019. The investigator considered
Mr E would need to raise this as a new complaint.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, and asked for his complaint to be
reviewed by an ombudsman.  
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 21 October 2020. Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
My understanding was that Mr E considered the transfers werent complete, because 
Sanlams error meant the investments he transferred were undervalued. I was 
satisfied that Sanlams redress should put that right. So I wasnt persuaded that Mr E 
needed to raise a new complaint about this point.
The issue for me to determine was whether Sanlam should obtain the details 
necessary to make the payment to Mr Es new provider.
The pension fund receiving the payment belongs to Mr E. So its essential that
Sanlam has the correct details to ensure the payment is accurate. For that reason, I 
didnt consider it was unreasonable for Sanlam to request that Mr E provides the 
payment details it needs. I wasnt not persuaded that Sanlam should have to obtain 
the details from the new provider.
Regarding the amount of compensation, Mr E said he switched out of the fund in 
question in March 2017. But he didnt transfer to his new provider until June 2017. He 
said Sanlam hadnt given any explanation for how the period 1 April 2017 to the 
transfer in June 2017 has been compensated for.I accepted that Sanlam hadnt provided detailed calculations to show how the 
compensation had been worked out. I also accepted Mr Es point that irrespective of 
the amounts involved, he should be able to have confidence that redress has been 
correctly calculated.
But I was also mindful that the actions we might ask Sanlam to take should be 
proportionate. I hadnt seen anything to suggest that the redress is wrong. From what 
Id seen and been told, I didnt consider it would be fair or reasonable on this 
occasion to ask Sanlam to provide more detailed calculations.
Mr E had referred to the fund he invested in when he transferred to his new provider. 
He said if his transfer amount hadnt been undervalued, he wouldve invested the 
missing money in the same fund. Hed also told me that he hadnt withdrawn any 
money from that fund. Mr E considered his loss should be measured against the 
performance of that fund.
Our investigator had agreed with Sanlam that compensation should be calculated 
based on annual interest of 8% simple. But I wasnt persuaded that was appropriate 
in this case because Mr Es money had remained invested.
I considered a fair way to calculate compensation was to look at how the money that 
shouldve been transferred in June 2017 wouldve performed if it had been invested 
in the fund Mr E transferred to. I said that if possible, Sanlam should pay to that 
pension policy an amount equivalent to the percentage loss at the date of transfer, 
applied to the current value of the amount of money transferred, taking into account 
any expenses in doing so, annual allowance issues and any available tax relief.
If wasnt possible, or payment into the pension policy would impact on any existing
protections, I said the amount equating to that redress amount should be paid directly 
to Mr E, but with a deduction for the income tax which he would pay on withdrawal of 
that amount from the pension fund. Mr E would have been able to withdraw 25% tax 
free, so assuming that he will be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the overall 
notional deduction should be 15%.
Mr E considered it was morally wrong for Sanlam to pay redress to existing policy 
holders first, before compensating those who had closed or transferred their 
investments. Mr E was aware that this is an issue better suited to consideration by 
the FCA, rather than this service. 
I had to determine whether any losses incurred by the business errors had been 
redressed. I didnt think that the timing of making any redress payment made a 
difference here. So I didnt make any findings on that point.
I could see that some of Sanlams service couldve been better. But overall I wasnt 
persuaded that the issues in arranging Mr Es redress justified additional 
compensation on this occasion.
Mr E responded to say, in summary that:
In March 2017 hed actually switched funds within policies held with Sanlam, which 
included a switch out of the fund that had been mispriced. It wasnt until June 2017 
that he transferred from Sanlam to his new provider. So he said his opportunity loss 
started from the time he switched out of the mispriced fund in March 2017.The electronic communication system used by his new provider meant it was difficult 
for him to get the details Sanlam would need to make the transfer.
He still considered Sanlam should provide transparent calculations.
He did not want to receive redress net of tax.
He had spent considerable time pursuing his complaint, and considered 
compensation was appropriate for the trouble and upset caused.
Sanlam didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional findings. But it 
said it had contacted Mr Es new provider about payment of the residual amount, had the 
correct transfer been made in June 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted everything Mr E has said in response to my provisional findings. I realise he would 
like certainty that Sanlams loss calculation takes account of the period from when he 
switched out of the mispriced fund (March 2017) to the date of transfer to his new provider 
(June 2017).
But as I said in my provisional findings, any actions we ask Sanlam to make must be 
proportionate. As I havent seen anything to suggest that Sanlams calculations are wrong, I 
dont consider it would be fair or reasonable to ask the business to produce the details Mr E 
is seeking. 
Sanlam has now made contact with Mr Es new provider, and I understand payment will be 
made to Mr Es SIPP once Sanlam has confirmation of the amount due. As payment will be 
made to the SIPP, I wont comment further on what Mr E has said about not receiving the 
payment net of tax.
For completeness, however, I have referred to the net payment in the redress section below, 
to provide a payment mechanism in the unlikely event that payment to the SIPP cannot be 
made.
I appreciate that pursuing his complaint has been time consuming for Mr E, and can 
understand the frustration this will have caused. But Im still not persuaded that the issues 
around arranging payment of his redress justify additional compensation on this occasion.
Putting things right
Sanlam must look at how the money that shouldve been transferred in June 2017 wouldve 
performed if it had been invested in the fund Mr E transferred to. 
If possible, Sanlam should pay to that pension policy an amount equivalent to the 
percentage loss at the date of transfer, applied to the current value of the amount of
money transferred, taking into account any expenses in doing so, annual allowance issues
and any available tax relief.
If its not possible, or payment into the pension policy would impact on any existing
protections, the amount equating to that redress amount should be paid directly to Mr E, but
with a deduction for the income tax which he would pay on withdrawal of that amount fromthe pension fund. Mr E would have been able to withdraw 25% tax free, so assuming that he
will be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the overall notional deduction should be 15%.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Sanlam Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to pay any redress due in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman