DRN-2018792
The complaint
Miss D complains that Covea Insurance plc declined her pet insurance claim. My references 
to Covea include its agents.
What happened
Miss D had pet insurance for her two dogs who Ill refer to as L and S. Covea is the policy 
insurer. 
Miss D says L had her first season later than is usual in dogs and with very mild symptoms.  
Ls second season happened about a year after the first, rather than the usual six months, 
and had the usual symptoms. When Ls second season finished she had a false pregnancy, 
which Miss D says affected L physically, mentally and behaviourally. The vet prescribed 
medication to stop the false pregnancy but Miss D says when L finished the course the 
symptoms returned and the vet advised that L be spayed, which would stop L having 
seasons and false pregnancies. 
Miss D says Ls sister, S, had previously had the same situation and was spayed and Miss D 
didnt want L to experience the same distress and problems as S. 
Covea declined the claim for L being spayed. It said the treatment was preventative which 
wasnt covered by the policy.
Miss D complained to us that Covea should pay the claim. She said her vet had written to 
confirm the spay was medically necessary. And when shed complained to us about Coveas 
decline of the claim for S spay treatment our investigator recommended Covea pay S claim.
Our investigator who considered Miss Ds complaint about S claim also considered her 
complaint about Ls claim. He said Covea fairly declined Ls claim. He thought L and S 
medical circumstances werent the same and Covea could reasonably say Ls spay was 
preventative treatment, not covered by the policy.
Miss D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Covea agreed to pay the costs of S spay following our investigators recommendation Im 
not going to comment on whether or not I think it should have paid the claim. My decision is 
only about whether Covea fairly and reasonably declined the claim for Ls spay.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers the cost of treatment of illness by a vet, subject to the policy terms and 
limits. The policy defines illness as:
Changes in your pets normal healthy state, sickness or disease, emotional or 
mental disorders.
But the policy specifically doesnt cover:
Costs of and resulting from vaccinations, spaying, castration, and pregnancy or 
giving birth, and 
Cost resulting from treatment your vet recommends to prevent an illness or injury.
Miss Ds vets evidence is that Ls spay was:
for medical reasons. (L) suffered from pseudopregnancy and she underwent 
ovariectomy to address this. Previous efforts to treat this condition with the (named 
drug) had been unsuccessful.
While the vet said Ls spay was for medical reasons that doesnt mean it wasnt preventative 
treatment. 
Coveas vets evidence is:
Occasionally (a bitch) comes back into season very quickly after the resolution of a 
false pregnancy and appears to be in an almost continual cycle of being in season or 
in false pregnancy. These are the ones where I would suggest that spaying (with 
careful timing) would count as therapeutic rather than preventative. This would 
appear to be the case put forward for (S).
(L) was presented to the vet on (date) with signs which could relate to a false 
pregnancy. The vet recorded that it was her second season. I cant see anything in 
the notes to indicate that there were any problems with the previous one... she was 
treated with (named drug) for 6 days and was improved but not 100%.Treatment was 
then extended for a further 2 days. This isnt an abnormally long course of treatment. 
After just one episode of false pregnancy which appears to have cleared easily 
I would feel that spaying would be very sensible, but preventative rather than part of 
the treatment.
On the basis of its vets evidence I think Covea reasonably understood Ls spay was 
preventative treatment, which isnt covered by the policy.
Ive considered Miss Ds comments about Coveas vets evidence. In brief Miss D says:
Ls first proper season wasn't until her second one which was followed by the false 
pregnancy
When L had medication her symptoms stopped but as soon as the medication 
stopped her severe symptoms returned. The medication was extended for only two 
days as Ls vet said that was the safe maximum course 
Ls false pregnancy didnt clear easily. The medication just reduced her symptoms for 
a few days and she was prescribed a second course to hold off symptoms long 
enough to be spayed. The only treatment option was to spay
Ls one false pregnancy was as severe as S third false pregnancy. 
Ive also looked at Ls vet notes at the time which say after Ls first course of medication there was less evidence of the false pregnancy but L was still not quite right. Two doses of 
medication were arranged and the vet then suggested to spay soon after.
On the overall evidence I cant reasonably say Covea should pay for Ls spay. The policy is 
clear that spaying and preventative treatment isnt covered. Theres no vet evidence that Ls 
false pregnancy was severe and continuous and spaying was the only treatment available. 
She only had one false pregnancy from what Miss D says was in effect her first full season. 
The vet notes at the time show that the medication had some positive effect. 
I completely understand why Miss D wanted L to be spayed but Covea fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman