DRN-2062750
The complaint
Mr M t/a S (a limited company) is unhappy that the Society of Lloyd's has declined a claim
for business interruption on a business protection insurance policy.
For simplicity, Ill refer to Mr M throughout my decision as he is the sole director of S.
What happened
Mr M, in his personal capacity, owned a building - which incorporated his shop premises
from which he operated his business as well as a flat which was situated above the shop
premises (the structure). Mr M says in 2014 a gas pipe was installed in the flat and attached
to the front elevation of the structure  and that this was done by the leaseholder of the flat,
without his, or the local authoritys, consent.
Mr M had the benefit of a business protection insurance policy. For reasons not directly
relevant to this complaint, a claim wasnt made for business interruption on the policy until
the summer of 2019. Relying on the policys terms, Lloyds subsequently declined that claim.
It says no insured peril has occurred and there has been no actual damage to Mr Ms stock,
tenants improvements or trade contents. Mr M doesnt think thats fair so complained to our
Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint; she didnt think Lloyds had unfairly or
unreasonably declined the claim, primarily as the installation of the gas pipe didnt, in her
view, constitute malicious damage. Mr M disagrees and has raised further points in reply.
This complaint was passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on 16 June 2020 explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold this 
complaint. As my reasons for doing so differed somewhat to our investigators, I wanted to 
give the parties an opportunity to provide any further comments for me to consider. 
Lloyds didnt provide anything more. Mr M replied setting out in detail why he disagreed with 
my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M will be very disappointed but I dont uphold it. 
I want to reassure Mr M that I have considered this complaint in light of all of the surrounding 
circumstances hes raised but when determining this particular complaint, Ive focused on 
whether Lloyds has done anything wrong when declining the claim. 
All in all, and for the reasons Ill go on to explain below, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has 
unreasonably declined the business interruption claim on the basis that there was no cover 
in place for the damage being claimed for.
The damage Mr M seeks to rely on in support of his business interruption claim relates to the
gas pipe being installed in the flat, which was attached to the front elevation of the structure,
above the shop where he operated his business from. He says he felt uneasy about the
trading from the shop premises with the gas pipe being so near to a busy road and he turned
his attention to legally challenge the installation of the gas pipe. As a result, he says his
business started to suffer financially.
The policy can indemnify Mr M against any loss of gross profit in the event of damage for
which Lloyds is liable under subsection 1 of section A of the policy, but this is subject to the 
remaining policy terms.
Subsection 1 of section A relates to material damage and says:
we shall indemnify you as a result of damage by any cover defined below to stock,
tenants improvements, trade contents and other property specifically stated herein whilst
within or attached to any building at the premises used in connection with the business. (my
emphasis).
Damage is defined as loss, destruction or damage. 
The policy also includes cover for malicious damage (excluding damage arising from 
cessation of work; by fire; by theft; or caused by persons acting on behalf of or in connection 
with a political organisation). But malicious damage isnt defined in the policy. Considering 
the policy definition of damage, malicious damage may need to involve something more 
than damage having occurred, and arguably involves some malevolence; an intention by the 
perpetrator to do harm.
However, I dont need to make a finding on whether the flats tenant did cause malicious
damage here which resulted in loss to Mr Ms business. Thats because Im not persuaded 
that the installation of the gas pipe to the structure - and the damage caused to the structure 
by this - was covered under the terms of the policy. 
Im satisfied that damage wasnt done to stock, tenants improvements, trade contents and 
other property specifically stated herein..
Ive considered each of these components.
I find that the part of the structure that was damaged doesnt meet the policy
definition of stock. In reply to my provisional decision, Mr M accepts this. 
Although tenants improvements are defined as tenants improvements and interior 
decorations to your property or for which you are responsible, I also find that this doesnt 
apply to the circumstances here. Mr M isnt claiming for damage to any improvements made 
by tenants or internal decorations to the structure.
Nor am I satisfied that there was any damage caused to trade contents, the definition of 
which includes machinery, signs, fixtures and fittings belonging to Mr M  and the shop front 
(excluding glass). 
Looking at the definition of shop, Im not satisfied that the damage to the flat at the front 
elevation of the structure amounts  or is equivalent - to the shop front. Shop does extend to the private dwelling rooms and outbuildings on the same premises as the shop and the 
physical structure thereof. So, the flat may amount to a private dwelling room. But premises 
are defined in the policy as the part of the building used by Mr M solely in connection with 
the business. And Im not satisfied the flat which formed part of the structure was being 
used in connection with the business being operated from the shop.
I know Mr M disagrees. He says the flats are within (on) the boundary/the shop and 
premises. Further, he says the structure of the shop not only comprises the inside of the 
shop; its made up of the foundations, supporting walls and the roof which are all relative. 
But the policy has set definitions and, in this case, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has 
unreasonably relied on those definitions when declining the claim.  
The policy can also cover loss arising from the interruption of - or interference with - the
business as a result of:
damage to property in the vicinity of the premises which prevents or hinders the use
            of the premises or access to it (regardless of whether the premises or Mr Ms
            property was damaged or not); or
murder, suicide or a serious crime at the premises.
However, based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the installation of the gas
pipe prevented or hindered Mr Ms use of the shop for the purpose of carrying out normal
business. 
When considering this issue, Ive taken on board all of Mr Ms points raised in response to 
my provisional decision including that the gas pipe was positioned around three metres away 
from the main road and if a vehicle had collided with it, this wouldve caused a big explosion 
 and the policy excludes damage caused by gas used for domestic purpose. As such, he 
felt forced to vacate the premises. However, I dont agree that the installation of the gas pipe 
in itself has prevented or hindered the use of the shop or access to it. 
And even if the tenant could be considered as committing a serious crime by installing the 
gas pipe  which I make no finding on - Im not persuaded this took place in the part of the 
premises where Mr M operated the business covered under the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman