DRN-3846112
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way Starling Bank Limited handled her request for a 
chargeback claim.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for reaching my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator. I know Miss M 
will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Miss M first contacted Starling in early May 2021. She said she had returned goods 
purchased on-line from a retailer but had not received a refund. She asked Starling to raise a 
chargeback claim. 
The investigator has already explained that there is no automatic right to a chargeback. But 
its considered good industry practice for a business to raise a chargeback unless there is 
sufficient evidence that the chargeback wouldnt be successful.
In this case, initially the information provided to Starling from Miss M indicated that the 
retailer hadnt received the returned items. Ultimately, Miss M was able to provide a copy of 
an email which indicated the returned goods had been received by retailer and that a refund 
was being processed. On this basis, Starling didnt proceed with the chargeback. 
Im satisfied that at this point Starling didnt do anything wrong. It looked at the evidence 
provided by Miss M and given it indicated a refund was being made, there was no 
requirement for a chargeback to be raised.
Miss M contacted Starling again at the end of May 2021 saying that the refund had not been 
received and asked for the chargeback to be initiated. But Starling said that Miss M hadnt 
met the evidentiary threshold required for it to raise a chargeback and referred Miss M back 
to the retailer. 
But Miss M says she provided sufficient evidence under the card scheme rules for a 
chargeback to be raised and, as this wasnt done, she has lost out. 
As part of this services investigation, the retailer was contacted for more information. In 
doing so, the retailer was provided with the evidence Miss M had provided to Starling and 
this service. In response, the retailer told us the documentation provided by Miss M didnt 
match the details of the customer it held on its records for the order number Miss M was 
disputing. But due to data regulations, the retailer wasnt able to provide further information 
about the customer details it did hold. 
When our investigator put this information to Miss M, she said that the investigator had 
incorrectly contacted the retailer as it cant provide information under the data regulations or 
raise a chargeback claim. But, as the investigator explained, we are allowed to contact a 
third-party when we feel it would help reach a fair outcome on a complaint. And Miss M 
agreed to this when she first referred her complaint to us. 
Miss M has also said that it is our role is to investigate why Starling didnt raise a 
chargeback, not investigate the chargeback itself. But I dont agree. Even if it was concluded 
that Starling should have raised a chargeback, to uphold Miss Ms complaint I would need to 
be satisfied that the claim would have most likely succeeded. 
But, in light of what the retailer has told us, even if Starling had raised a chargeback claim, I 
think its most unlikely that the claim would have succeeded. The retailer has said Miss Ms 
details didnt match it records. And so, Im persuaded that the retailer would have defended 
the chargeback claim had one been made.  
It therefore follows that Im satisfied that Miss M hasnt lost out because of any failing on 
Starlings part. As a result, I wont be asking Starling to take any further action in respect of 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman