DRN-2827854
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) incorrectly 
sent it a letter stating a loan repayment had been missed. C also complains the service 
given by Barclays fell below the standard it was entitled to expect. 
One of Cs directors, Mr W, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
On 25 March 2020, the relationship manager at Barclays agreed to a repayment holiday for 
C for 6 months due to the pandemic. 
On 26 April 2020, Barclays sent a letter to C which said a loan repayment had been missed 
and explained the possible consequences of this.
Mr W called Barclays on 30 April as he was unhappy hed been sent the letter during the 
agreed repayment holiday and therefore hadnt missed a repayment. He had a number of 
phone calls with the bank that day and is unhappy with how the matter was handled. He 
feels that during those calls the service fell below what he was entitled to expect. For 
example, he says one call handler didnt have enough information, another spoke to him 
aggressively and blamed him, he was shown little empathy and the call quality was 
incredibly poor along with lengthy hold times. Since this, he says hes also been trying to 
move Cs business away from Barclays, but this has been made difficult by the bank too.
Mr W says the impact of what couldve happened as a result of the banks error is severe 
and this caused both him and the company secretary  when she opened the letter - 
significant alarm and distress. Mr W also says there has been a decline in supplier credit. To 
put things right, hes asked for compensation of £1,000, a full apology and a detailed 
response for every aspect of the complaint. Hed also like a dedicated contact to assist with 
settlement and leaving Barclays. 
Barclays upheld Cs complaint. It confirmed the letter had been sent out due to a bank error 
 it didnt update its records with the payment holiday and so when a payment fell due and 
wasnt made, the letter was automatically generated. It confirmed this had been corrected 
and apologised for the distress it caused. It offered £150 compensation along with a hamper 
for the company secretary.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought the banks offer was a fair way to put things 
right. So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr W disagreed and felt it was important for the ombudsman to listen to the calls he had with 
the bank to understand that Barclays didnt hold their hands up and put it right. He didnt feel 
our service had represented his interests, supported his rights or recognised the amount of 
frustration caused.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I think its important to explain that our service is neither a consumer champion nor an 
industry trade-body. Were completely impartial. 
Barclays doesnt have all the call recordings due to the altered working arrangements at the 
outset of the pandemic. However, Ive listened to the recordings of three conversations 
between C and Barclays that have been sent to me from 30 April and read the call notes as 
well as all the information sent to us by both parties.
The key facts about this complaint arent in dispute. Barclays has admitted it got things 
wrong  it didnt update its records with the repayment holiday in time for the April payment 
and a letter was sent to C as a result. It also had poor quality phone calls with Mr W on 30 
April including one which was cut off. The key issue I must decide is whether the things 
Barclays has done to put this right, including the amount of compensation it offered, is fair 
and reasonable. 
Having taken everything into account, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold the complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The issue of the letter in error, whilst unfortunate, was something Barclays took steps to put 
right as soon as this was brought to its attention. When listening to the calls on 30 April, Ive 
heard a call handler confirm to Mr W that it was likely a system error and things would be put 
right by a support team. He also offered to personally monitor it and apologised during the 
call for both the incorrect letter being sent and the quality of the call. Having made the error, 
this is what Id expect Barclays to do once it was made aware of this.
Mr W had several phone calls with the bank on 30 April. And I agree the call quality was 
poor - once the line cut out and on another occasion the complaint handler called him back 
after resetting his system to try to improve the quality of the call. But I also need to bear in 
mind that during this time, the financial services industry  like many other industries  was 
facing unprecedented logistical and operational challenges. There was also a high level of 
demand from its customers.
Mr W says this error and the conversations he had with the bank caused distress and alarm. 
And I understand that this was at an already difficult time given the onset of the pandemic 
and the impact this was having on his business, which is also his family home. 
Having listened to the calls, there were a few points where I dont think the bank staff 
handled this with the care and empathy Id usually expect. However, I feel that in response 
to the tone and language Mr W used in his calls, the bank staff demonstrated good service 
and patience for much of the time. Even so, I also considered this was at a time of national 
uncertainty which affected everyone in different ways.
That said, because C is a separate legal entity from the people who run it, I can only make 
an award for inconvenience experienced by the company, and not Mr W or any other officers 
or employees of the company. So, while I can consider the inconvenience of any time taken 
away from C to resolve this matter, I cant compensate it for the frustration or distress Mr W 
experienced personally in receiving the letter or speaking to Barclays, or how the company 
secretary felt when opening the letter. This is because a limited company cant experience 
suffering or distress.Having taken everything into account, and bearing in mind the limitations Ive set out above, 
I think the £150 Barclays offered to C for the inconvenience caused by its error in sending 
the letter and issues with the quality of the phone calls is a fair and reasonable way of 
compensating C. Even so, Barclays also explained what happened, apologised for this and 
confirmed the repayment holiday had been put in place. So I dont agree it needs to do 
anything more to put things right.
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mr W hoped for. But I hope he will understand that Im not 
seeking to downplay the distress he or the company secretary say they felt at the time. Im 
simply saying I cant take that into account when deciding to award compensation to a 
limited company.
I understand the letter of 26 April set out the consequences of what could happen next and 
that these wouldve been significant for C. But I havent seen evidence the account was 
defaulted, any external agencies notified or anything was done by Barclays which would 
have such an impact. We can only look at what has happened and the actual impact of that 
event, not at what mightve potentially happened. 
C has mentioned the difficulties faced when trying to move its business away from Barclays. 
However, this would need to be raised with Barclays separately to give it the opportunity to 
investigate matters. If things still arent resolved then it might be able to be bought to our 
service as a separate complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W, for an on 
behalf of C, to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman