DRN-1856177
 
The complaint
Miss G complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined her claim on her home 
insurance.
What happened 
Miss G had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by AXA. In 2019 Miss G noticed 
cracks in the garage at her property. She made a claim for subsidence on the policy.
AXA sent a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. He said he thought the structure had been 
built on insufficient foundations but would require further investigation to confirm this.
AXA therefore sent an engineer to carry out some tests. They concluded that the garage 
was built on a 200mm thick concrete slab, rather than having sufficient foundations. This 
meant the weight of the walls and the roof on the slab had caused the cracking and not 
subsidence. On this basis AXA declined Miss Gs claim as defective design is excluded 
under the policy.
Miss G wasnt happy with this as she said she couldnt have known the foundations were 
defective. She made a complaint to AXA.
AXA didnt uphold the complaint. It said, following investigative work, there was no evidence 
of subsidence so there wasnt an insured peril. Therefore policy cover wouldnt apply.  
Miss G didnt think this was fair. She said she couldnt have been aware of the defective 
design of the garage when she bought the property and AXA should have done a survey to 
check whether it would be covered. She brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
She said as there wasnt an insured peril, the policy wouldnt provide cover, so AXA had 
acted fairly by declining her claim.
Miss G didnt agree, she said the damage to the structure was more on one side, which 
suggested it was subsidence. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA originally declined Miss Gs claim due to the defective design exclusion under the 
policys subsidence cover. However it has since said that there is no evidence of 
subsidence, so the policy doesnt cover the repairs as there is no insured peril. When a claim is made on an insurance policy, it is first for the insured to prove there is an 
insured peril. This is an event that has caused some kind of damage or loss that is covered 
by a policy. In this instance Miss G said the insured peril was subsidence. AXA has said that 
it has found no evidence of subsidence so as there isnt an insured peril, the policy wouldnt 
provide cover. I have considered whether AXA has acted fairly and reasonably when 
declining Miss Gs claim. 
At the start of the claim, AXA sent a loss adjuster to look at the damage. They identified a 
number of possible causes of the cracking including the possibility of defective foundations 
and also vegetation or drains nearby  as these can sometimes cause subsidence. 
AXA then instructed further investigative work. And its engineer put together a report. This 
concluded that there was no evidence of subsidence but instead the way the garage had 
been built had caused it to crack over time. 
I have looked at the notes from the various tests that were carried out. From digging holes in 
locations around the structure, the engineer established that the garage is built on a 
concrete slab, rather than having foundations buried into the ground. The engineers report 
concludes that the weight of the walls and roof on the concrete slab overtime has caused the 
slab to crack. It says that if there were proper foundations, as required by building 
regulations, then the cracking wouldnt have happened. 
Further the report examined the soil, drains and vegetation in the area and found no 
evidence of subsidence.
I have looked at the photos provided by Miss G. I can see that there is significant damage to 
the garage. The crack across the floor is large and there is further damage to the walls of the 
structure. However these appear consistent with AXAs engineers report. 
Miss G says she believes the damage is caused by subsidence as the right-hand side of the 
structure is more severely affected and has sunk further than the left-hand side. She says if 
it was due to the weight of the building on the concrete slab, the damage would be more 
uniform. I can see from the photos that this is the case. The damage is more significant to 
the right-hand side. However this could be due to a number of reasons. For example - the 
left hand wall is built across the concrete slab and the patio, which may ease the weight on 
the slab on that side. So I dont think this alone is enough to prove that the structure is 
affected by subsidence. 
Further, the investigative work carried out by AXAs engineer looked at possible causes of 
subsidence around the garage and found no evidence that subsidence had occurred. And it 
concluded that the damage wouldnt have happened if it wasnt for the way the building was 
constructed. So I think its more likely that subsidence isnt responsible for the damage and 
there is no insured peril. 
I sympathise with Miss Gs frustrations that she couldnt have been aware of the way the 
garage was built when she bought the property. However in looking at this complaint, I am 
only considering whether AXA has acted fairly in declining the claim. So although I 
appreciate how frustrating it must be for Miss G to discover that the garage has been poorly 
constructed, I cant say this is AXAs fault.
For these reasons I dont think Miss G has proved that there is an insured peril. From what 
Ive seen, it seems more likely that the damage to the garage was caused by the way it has 
been constructed and not due to subsidence. I therefore think AXA acted fairly by declining 
the claim and I wont ask it to do anything differently.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I wont require AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything 
differently.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman