DRN-3518939
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in 
relation to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs M are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around March 2018, Mr and Mrs M were contacted by a representative of a company Ill 
call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs M decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. They 
are both named in the contract to purchase the system, but only Mr M signed the loan 
agreement. The system was subsequently installed.
In June 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ms behalf under sections 
56, 75 and 140A of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number 
of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs M to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding during the term of the loan;
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments; and
the system would not require maintenance (but in fact the inverter would have to be 
replaced at least during the systems 25-year lifespan, at a cost of £1,500 each time).
Shawbrook acknowledged the complaint but did not give a substantive response, and so in 
December 2020 the CMC referred this complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs M, and found no other reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
it is not credible to suppose that Mr and Mrs M would knowingly saddle themselves 
with such a financially disadvantageous arrangement unless they had been misled;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law;
the adjudicator had given too much weight to the sales documentation and not 
enough weight to the recollections of Mr and Mrs M, who were there; and
the Financial Ombudsman Service should be more skeptical about what it is told by 
Shawbrook and P.
The CMC later provided new evidence, in the form of emails between Mr M and a third party 
in April and May 2022, indicating that the system is no longer generating anything, and FIT 
income is no longer being paid. The CMC asked for the system to be inspected.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
Background
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Jurisdiction: the new fault
Our services jurisdiction is set out in rules made by the FCA. These say that our service 
cannot consider a complaint unless it has first been raised with the respondent, and the 
respondent has had eight weeks to consider it, unless the respondent gives its final 
response within that period or waives its rights.
The recent failure of the system is a new matter which has only just been raised with our 
service, and does not appear to have been raised with Shawbrook yet. Rather than deal with 
that matter as part of this complaint at such a late stage, I think it would be better for Mr and 
Mrs M to raise it with Shawbrook as a new complaint, instead of delaying this complaint any 
longer for an inspection to take place, as I am conscious that this case has been with our 
service for 19 months now.
Since this decision is only about the original allegations of misrepresentation and an 
allegedly unequal relationship between the parties  and not about the recently reported fault 
which has only just come to light  I am satisfied that issuing this final decision will not 
prevent our service from considering a separate complaint about the recent problem, or 
otherwise prejudice Mr and Mrs M in referring such a complaint to us (even if the new fault 
turns out to have been caused by a defect which was present at the point of sale). As I have 
set out later in this decision, and for the reasons I have given below (in the section titled 
Performance), I am satisfied that the system was performing properly up until it suddenly 
failed. So I dont think I need to investigate the cause of the recent fault in order to fairly 
assess the original complaint.
Jurisdiction: is Mrs M eligible to complain?
The FCAs rules also say that to be eligible to bring a complaint, a person has to have been 
a customer, or a potential customer, of the business they are complaining about, which in 
this case is Shawbrook. (There are other categories of eligible complainant, but they are not 
relevant here.) Mrs M was a customer of P, but not a customer of Shawbrook, since she was 
never a party to the loan agreement. Nevertheless, I think it is likely that Ps salesman would 
have invited both her and her husband to take out the loan, and I think that would be enough 
to have made her a potential customer of Shawbrook, however briefly. I have therefore 
treated this as a complaint brought by two eligible complainants.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr M, as debtor, and P, as the supplier, are 
deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook. This makes Shawbrook 
liable for whatever Ps salesman said.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
possibility that Shawbrook may have paid P commission or gave P some other financial 
incentive to broker the loan. Shawbrook denies that, and I have seen no evidence to the 
contrary, so I think that this section is only relevant to the allegations of misrepresentation.
However, although Mrs M is an eligible complainant under the FCAs rules, sections 56, 75 
and 140A do not apply to her, as she is not a party to the credit agreement. Those sections 
only protect debtors. Consequently, I cannot uphold her complaint about Shawbrook, and so 
in the rest of this decision I will refer only to Mr Ms complaint. (This does not mean that her 
evidence is inadmissible, since our service does not have rules of evidence.)
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr and Mrs Ms testimony and recollections of the sales meeting, to decide 
on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs M, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to him agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Ms version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr M has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Ms recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr M could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr M could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £161.59, which results in an average monthly income of £13.47. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £119.54. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr M was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr M could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £296.44 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr M, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£1,139.63. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr M entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £119.54. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £117.98, but the difference  £1.56  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £119.54, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative 
figure for the first four years of the loan, meaning that the system would take five years to 
begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr M could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr M wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Ms version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mr M was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
I have also considered the table for 180 months, because this table has been highlighted, 
which may indicate that it was discussed before Mr M opted for a shorter loan period. This 
table still shows a shortfall during the first two years.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr M that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.56 
discrepancy in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr M, 
so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied 
that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr M was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the estimated performance over 25 
years. This shows that it would take 8 years for the overall benefits that Mr M could expect to 
receive to reach the cash price of the system.
I think the 8-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on page 
2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in the 
Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
25 years. This also shows that during year 8 the overall benefits that Mr M could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,996.
 
(The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, 
£14,257.60, would be reached by the end of year 10, although that amount is not shown in 
the quote but only in the loan agreement.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr M that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 8 years, and for the loan in 10 years, as supported by the graph and the table above, 
which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied 
that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a 
loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation.
The CMC says it is untrue because it has calculated that it will actually take 33 years for the 
system to pay for the loan. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and 
whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr M.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote each set out that the system is expected to produce 2,538 
kWh a year. I have looked at Mr Ms FIT statement dated August 2019 and can see that his 
system, on average, generated 2,777 kWh a year up to 7 June 2019. This is slightly more 
than estimated by P at the point of sale  about 109%  so Im satisfied that the system was 
(at that time) performing as expected, in terms of energy generation, if not financially. (I have 
also seen a more recent meter reading, from July 2020, and this still gives a similar result.)
So I am satisfied that the reason Mr M has not seen the financial returns he was expecting is 
not because the system has failed to generate as much energy as was estimated at the 
point of sale, but for some other cause.
I have gone on to look at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2007 and 2018 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr M hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr M could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr M entered into the contract.
The inverter
I dont think it is likely that the salesman would have told Mr M that the system would require 
no maintenance over its estimated lifespan of 25 years. It is possible that the salesman did 
not tell him during the meeting that the inverter would need to be replaced, but that is not the 
same thing as a misrepresentation.
I also note that the quote says, in a section titled Inverter:
The Inverter is the one part of PV system that has a higher chance of failure and 
may require your attention within the 25 years.
So I dont uphold this complaint point.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr M to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
(As I have explained above, this decision does not deal with the recent failure of the system, 
as described in the emails from April and May 2022. That issue may be raised in a new 
complaint.)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman