DRN-1826492
The complaint
Mr M and Mr Ys complaint concerns various requests theyve made to Wave Lending 
Limited to remove Mr Y from - and add another of Mr Ms family to - their joint buy-to-let 
(BTL) mortgage account. Wave said it doesnt allow transfers of equity on BTL mortgage 
accounts and Mr M and Mr Y think thats unfair.
What happened
Mr M and Mr Y jointly took out this BTL mortgage in 2007.
The first mention of a possible transfer of equity (TofE) was in December 2012 when the 
mortgage contact notes indicate Mr M asked about removing Mr Y and was told Wave 
doesnt allow a TofE on BTL mortgage accounts.
A further enquiry was made by Mr M in May 2013 and he was again told Wave doesnt allow 
it.
In March 2014 Mr M and Mr Y were told it was possible but would be subject to a full 
application and meeting Waves lending criteria (including credit checks) as if it were an 
entirely new mortgage application. At Mr M and Mr Ys request a letter was sent out by Wave 
detailing that.
When Mr M then spoke to Wave in April 2014, he was told hed been given incorrect 
information in March 2014 and that a TofE wasnt possible due to it being a BTL mortgage 
account. Mr Y was told the same thing when he called Wave about a week later.
In June 2017 Mr M again mentioned the possibility of a TofE and was told it wasnt allowed, 
as he was when he asked again in May 2019.
On 1 July 2019 Mr M called to ask about a TofE and was told that if they met the lending 
criteria Mr Y could be removed, and that criteria was that a full application would need to be 
made, and an affordability check (amongst others) carried out.
On 2 July 2019 Mr M was told hed been given the wrong information the day before, and 
that a TofE cant be done. Unhappy with that Mr M raised a complaint.
Wave apologised for the mis-information and explained it doesnt allow a TofE to be 
undertaken on BTL mortgage accounts.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying that the wrong information that had been 
given in March 2014 and July 2019 was just that; wrong. He said Wave didnt allow a TofE 
on BTL mortgage accounts and it didnt have to. Mr M and Mr Y didnt agree and so the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Mr M and Mr Y but although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I understand Mr M and Mr Y feel that Wave hasnt treated them fairly. But in my view the 
decision not to allow a TofE on any BTL mortgage account is one that Wave was entitled to 
make as a matter of its commercial discretion. This policy isnt specific to Mr M and Mr Y; 
Wave simply doesnt allow a TofE on any BTL mortgage accounts, so its not treated Mr M 
and Mr Y differently from other similar consumers.
Mr M and Mr Y have said that it should be explained in the mortgage offer and/or account 
terms and conditions document that a TofE isnt allowed. They say as its not in there they 
cant be bound to it. Unfortunately, theyve misdirected themselves there. A contract wont 
include all the things that wont/cant be done, otherwise it could be a never-ending list of 
conditions. Just because the mortgage contract doesnt say that Mr M and Mr Y cant do 
something, doesnt mean that they can. Silence on a point doesnt mean Mr M and Mr Y 
have the right to alter the underlying contract they willingly entered into; that is a BTL 
mortgage in their joint names.
Mr M and Mr Y entered into a joint contract to borrow this money and to pay it back. There is 
no underlying right for either Mr M or Mr Y to be removed from that contract, and/or for 
another party to be added. If Mr M and Mr Y no longer want to hold this mortgage jointly in 
their names, then theyll have to end the contract with Wave by repaying the entire debt. 
Whether that is by selling the property or by arranging a replacement mortgage elsewhere 
(with a different party in place of Mr Y) is up to Mr M and Mr Y, but Wave doesnt have to 
allow such a fundamental change to the contract with it. Wave isnt responsible for any costs 
incurred by Mr M and/or Mr Y for either a sale or remortgage, or for them retaining this 
mortgage with Wave in their joint names.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case it was simple human error that meant Mr M and Mr Y were told a TofE 
could be considered (subject to a full application and underwriting). Both times that 
mis-information was given it was corrected shortly after. This is a mistaken statement of 
facts; a misrepresentation. When were looking at complaints of this type we consider the 
appropriate remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect 
information hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if it had 
been correct. 
If the correct information had been given, Mr M and Mr Y would have been given the same 
information theyd been given since 2012, that a TofE wasnt possible. Mr M and Mr Y could 
never have been in the position where they could apply for a TofE on this BTL mortgage. As 
the mistake was corrected soon after both times, Mr M and Mr Y have already had the 
appropriate remedy in that they knew the true position.
Whilst Im sympathetic to the situation Mr M and Mr Y have found themselves in, Wave 
simply doesnt have to grant the TofE they want.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman