DRN-3709547
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money provided 
in relation to a block which was put on his debit card. He feels it wouldnt make reasonable 
adjustments and so he feels he has been discriminated against.
What happened
Mr H was contacted by Virgin Moneys automated fraud checking service. A text was sent to 
him regarding an attempted transaction for £83.91 and Mr H replied to the message advising 
it wasnt him attempting to make the transaction. So, a block was put on his debit card.
Mr H is unhappy as this left him without access to his account for over 20 days. He says he 
attempted to call Virgin Money on several occasions but was faced with 40 minutes waiting 
times. Eventually Mr H contacted Virgin Money to raise a complaint, but he says that it didnt 
assist him but continued to advise him to contact it to discuss the matter. 
As he remained unhappy Mr H says he continued to contact Virgin Money to complain about 
its policy of having to call the bank to have the block removed. He says Virgin Money should 
have offered to make reasonable adjustments and it must have a policy in place for 
customers who may not be able to use the phone. Mr H has explained to our service that he 
had to transfer money between accounts in order to live. And as someone who is registered 
disabled, he was distressed and suffered anxiety by Virgin Money refusing to unblock the 
debit card or send him a new debit card.
Virgin Money have said in circumstances such as these it is its policy to speak to customers 
over the phone for security reasons in order to remove a block on a debit card. It says it 
attempted to call Mr H on several occasions and also offered to call him at a convenient 
time. Virgin Money says he refused to speak with it and disconnected the line or didnt 
answer the phone. Therefore, it asked Mr H to contact it but had no record of Mr H speaking 
to it. Eventually, Virgin Money agreed to issue Mr H a new card, which he began to use on 4 
August 2022. 
Virgin Money have said it has no record of Mr H advising it he was registered disabled or 
requesting reasonable adjustments due to his disability. But it has said it would be more than 
happy to consider this if Mr H is able to provide further information and explain what he 
requires.
Mr H remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Hs concerns but didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She felt Virgin 
Money had acted fairly in the circumstances. Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint 
to be passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. But first I need to clarify for Mr H that this service is unable to make findings on
whether something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because
we are an informal, free alternative to the Courts and only a court of law can make a legal
finding based on the definitions set out within the act. I know Mr H will be frustrated by this. 
However, I can consider whether Virgin Money has acted in a fair and reasonable
manner. In order to do that I will take a number of things, including the Equality Act 2010,
into consideration.
The first thing I have considered is Virgin Moneys policy when it comes to removing security 
blocks in circumstances such as these. Having reviewed internal correspondence provided 
by Virgin Money, I understand why it had concerns and why it felt it needed to pursue its 
internal process to clear security with Mr H via telephone in order to remove the block on his 
debit card. As such I am satisfied Virgin Money was acting in the best interests of Mr H and 
acting inline with its usual processes. 
I have gone on to consider the fact Mr H has explained he couldnt get through to Virgin 
Money each time he tried to contact it. And he felt reasonable adjustments should have been 
made by Virgin Money. The Equality Act says that businesses have a duty to make 
reasonable adjustments for customers who are placed at a substantial disadvantage due to 
their disability. However, in law, Virgin Money is only required to make adjustments which 
are reasonable, and ones that dont fundamentally alter the nature of its service. Thats 
relevant law and Ive taken it into account when reaching my decision.
I can see that Mr H has told our service he is registered disabled. But Virgin Money has said 
Mr H never made it aware of this and having reviewed the correspondence between Mr H 
and Virgin Money I cant see where Mr H made it aware of his disability or what adjustments 
he would require in relation to his disability. Virgin Money and our service has asked Mr H 
the reasons why he couldnt use the telephone and any information in regards to his 
disability which would allow Virgin Money to ensure the appropriate reasonable adjustments 
are put in place. However, Mr H hasnt provided this information. 
But in order for Virgin Money, and in turn our service, to consider if reasonable adjustments 
could or should have been made, I think it is reasonable to enquire about the reasons that 
prevent/prevented Mr H using the phone. So, as Mr H hasnt provided our service or Virgin 
Money with any information regarding his disability, or the adjustments he needs to ensure 
he is not substantially disadvantaged, I cant fairly conclude that Virgin Money has treated 
him unfairly. In order for reasonable adjustments to be made, its reasonable for Virgin 
Money to have an understanding of the barriers Mr H faces and the reasons why it is 
required to depart from its usual course of business. 
I appreciate Mr H feels that the lengthy telephone queues were unreasonable and Virgin 
Money has acknowledged that during that period of time their call waiting times were higher 
than usual. However, I can see that Virgin Money offered to call Mr H at a convenient time.
After reviewing Virgin Money internal correspondence I have also considered why it took it 
longer than usual to issue Mr H with a new card. Security hadnt been cleared over the 
phone and so it was reluctant to issue a new card without doing so as it didnt wish to put Mr 
Hs account at risk. However, after careful consideration I can see that Virgin Money did 
depart from its usual processes and issue Mr H with a new card which he began using on 4 
August 2021. As such I am satisfied it that it did make an adjustment for Mr H in this 
circumstance. As such I wont be asking Virgin Money to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman