DRN-3052386
The complaint and background
Mr J complains Co-operative Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from falling victim to
an alleged investment scam nor assist him in trying to recover his funds.
Co-op declined Mr Js claim. It said it does not agree that it should refund Mr Js losses as
he wrote and issued the cheque to the intended payee. It says it made every effort to
recover the funds from the payee bank but unfortunately none remained.
On 17 August 2021, I issued a provisional decision rejecting this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
1. Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in 
disappointing returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted 
using sales methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst 
customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as 
fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for 
fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to disclose information 
with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to another or exposing 
another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
2. Banks and other Payment Service Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering. But when simply executing authorised 
payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains or give 
investment advice  and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has confirmed that a 
fraud warning would not constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its 
predecessors 2012 consultation paper on investment fraud). So, the first question to 
resolve is whether this particular firm was fraudulent and/or the investment a scam.
 
3. Mr J seeks recovery of a cheque payment he alleges was made as a result of a scam. 
The cheque debited Mr Js account on 6 December 2017. It was made payable to a 
limited company, who Ill refer to as A for £20,000.
4. Mr J says he has lost the best part of his redundancy savings and the whole incident has 
damaged his health. Im truly sorry to hear of what Mr J has been through. Its 
understandable having lost such a significant sum why he feels he has been the victim of 
a scam. But as Ive pointed out above, not all cases where individuals have lost 
significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
5. Here, A was a legitimate regulated law firm. My understanding is that in 2016 A started 
to take on claims for breach of contract by mortgage providers and by 2017, was offering 
investors the opportunity to invest in an unregulated litigation funding investment scheme 
- which centred around mortgage borrowers who had supposedly paid too much interest 
to their lenders. A was incorporated in 2008 and was operating until May 2019, when it 
was shut down by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) as it had concluded, Mr A  
a manager of the firm, had failed to comply with the SRA Principles 2011, the SRA 
Practice Framework Rules 2011 and the SRA Accounts Rules. I note following this, in 
May 2020, A was put into voluntary liquidation. Ive taken into account, ultimately, 
following a Solicitors Disciplinary Tribunal (SDT) Mr A was struck off as a solicitor. In 
short, the tribunal found Mr As failures amounted to manifest incompetence. It was also 
noted by the panel that the assertions made in the brochure were misleading and 
unscrupulous - with risk not clearly explained. However, Ive not seen anything that 
meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Im also not aware of any 
such criminal charges having been brought against A or Mr A. Rather, based on what 
Ive seen this appears to be a case of a badly managed investment and questionable 
sales methods/trading practices. So, on balance, taking into account everything thats 
been said and provided, I cant fairly conclude that Mr J has been a victim of a scam or 
that A was operating fraudulently.
6. Importantly, the information which became publicly available in 2019 would not have 
been known at the time Mr J wrote and issued a cheque instructing Co-op to pay A. At 
the time, A was simply a legitimate regulated law firm, offering investors an unregulated 
litigation funding investment opportunity.
7. Whilst I understand the point Mr J is making that Co-op ought to have questioned him 
and provided him with appropriate warnings as the cheque payment from his account 
was not in line with his normal account usage  it was larger than any payment he had 
previously made. Having concluded that this was likely a case of a bad investment rather 
than a scam, there is nothing further for me to consider, as a bank has no obligation to 
protect its customers from bad bargains or give them investment advice.
8. Undoubtedly, there are occasions when we do think banks should query payments  
whether electronic or via cheque  because of suspicious activity that appears unusual 
or uncharacteristic for the account or customer. If such potential fraud alerts are 
triggered, it is fair and reasonable for a banker to pause and ask questions of the payer 
about the transaction  which might unravel a scam and stop it before any loss occurs. 
But those considerations, which we have previously set out in our published decisions 
(and which also largely apply to cheque transactions, taking account of necessary 
changes given different processes and technologies), are predicated on there being 
evidence of a fraud or scam, which is not the case here. A bank does not have to 
intervene with authorised payments, and cannot be held liable for alleged losses, when 
there is in fact no fraud or scam, or if the payer has regrets or second thoughts after the 
event.
9. Indeed, a banks principal duty is to obey its customers payment mandate under the 
terms and conditions of the account contract (and of course the customers ancillary 
contract with the third-party payee, e.g. a retailer, creditor, supplier, etc). This position 
has long been recognised at common law. So, if it fails to comply with a validly-executed 
payment order, the bank could be held liable in damages  as could the drawer (i.e. 
payer) where the payment method used is a cheque. The starting position is that the 
bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer instructs it to 
make without undue delay. So, presented with a cheque drawn in accordance with the 
terms of the contract, a bank must honour the payment unless there are legal, regulatory or contractual grounds which may, in exceptional circumstances, allow refusal of a 
payment instruction.
10. Part of Mr Js complaint relates to Co-op not assisting him in trying to recover his funds. 
In light of my conclusion above, its not necessary to consider whether Co-op exercised 
enough care and urgency when trying to recover Mr Js funds from the payee bank. 
However, I can see that, upon receipt of notification from Mr J of a potential problem with 
the payment to A, Co-op did assist, by identifying and contacting the payee bank. 
Unfortunately, the payee bank responded to say that no funds remained. So Im satisfied 
Co-op have acted fairly and couldnt have done anything further.
11. I know Mr J feels strongly that he is an innocent party, he shouldnt lose out and 
someone should be protecting him, but I cant fairly ask Co-op to refund Mr Js loss. 
Ultimately, he paid a sum by cheque to what appears to be  at least at the material time 
 a legitimate regulated law firm offering an unregulated litigation funding investment 
opportunity. There is no evidence that Co-op had  or ought reasonably to have had  
concerns about the firm. I therefore conclude that it didnt act unfairly or unreasonably 
when settling the payment instructed by Mr J to pay A.
Response to my provisional decision 
Co-op did not respond to my provisional decision.
Mr J maintains his belief that he was scammed by A and hasnt done anything wrong. He 
has responded to say;
- Co-op continues to send him mail about scams and how he can protect himself. He 
says in its literature it states that it will compensate victims if there is no wrong doing 
on the victims part. 
- He remains unhappy Co-op processed and passed the cheque onto the payees 
bank without asking any questions. 
- Solicitors are respected in society. He questions how he could have known of the 
wrongdoing carried out by A as he wouldnt expect such malpractice from a man of 
the law.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand how upsetting this is for Mr J. I do empathise with his circumstances and am 
very mindful of the losses he has suffered. However, as explained previously, in my 
provisional findings I think this was likely a case of a bad investment rather than a scam and 
a bank has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or give them investment 
advice. 
As Mr J has not made any new arguments nor provided me with any new substantive 
evidence, I have no reason to deviate from my provisional decision  that Co-op cannot fairly 
be held liable for Mr Js loss in these circumstances.   My final decision
For the reasons set out above and before, I am not persuaded that The Co-operative Bank 
PLC acted unfairly or unreasonably with regard to the authorised cheque payment, so I am 
unable to uphold this complaint or make any award against the bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman