DRN-3915252
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when 
he tried to apply for a new InvestDirect Plus account to enable him to carry out investment 
transactions. He wasnt able to do so and says that he has suffered financially as a result. 
What happened
Mr A opened a Basic Bank Account with HSBC in July 2021. He was interested in making 
direct stock market investments. After contacting HSBC in September 2021, he found he 
wasnt able to do so. He complained to HSBC. 
In its response of 31 May 2022, HSBC said;
It apologised for the confusion caused about the requirements to invest via HSBC. 
Mr A had initially called the Global Investment Centre which dealt with collective 
investments only, but Mr A had wanted to invest into stockmarket shares so was 
transferred to InvestDirect. 
Mr A was advised he would need to apply for a Sharedealing account via its 
InvestDirect platform. 
Mr A had wanted to invest into an ISA and US dollars and to do so would need to 
open an InvestDirect Plus account. However, Mr A held a Basic Bank Account which 
wasnt eligible. He would need an Advance Bank Account.
When Mr A applied for the Advance Bank Account his application was rejected as 
HSBC was unable to complete some of its credit checks. 
The Basic Bank Account did qualify for HSBCs Global Investment Centre account, 
so Mr A applied for a new ISA and General Investment Account in April 2022. 
Mr A subscribed £4,780 into his ISA for tax year 2022/23 and £50 in his General 
Investment Account.
Mr A had set up monthly Regular Savings Plans but the payments kept rejecting 
because of insufficient funds so the Plans were cancelled.
Mr A said he wanted to invest over £1m into his General Investment Account and 
should make contact with HSBC if he wished to go ahead. 
HSBC didnt agree to cover Mr A s lost market performance, but Mr A s bank 
account was credited with £50 as a gesture of goodwill for the time he was kept 
waiting when he called. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the outcome so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think HSBC needed to do anything 
more. She said;
HSBC wasnt under any obligation to tell Mr A about the options available via his 
Basic Bank Account unless asked.
Mr A was later able to use HSBCs Global Investment Centre using his Basic Bank 
Account but that allowed him to invest into collective investments rather than stocks 
which is what he originally wanted to do. 
HSBCs website made clear that its Basic Bank Account is only for people who dont 
qualify for one of its other accounts. The main reason being the applicant has had 
financial difficulties or a poor credit record which supported why Mr A couldnt 
upgrade his account and open the InvestDirect Plus account.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said his complaint was a serious one about denial 
and discrimination. The investigator remained of the same opinion and said that Mr A wasnt 
eligible for the InvestDirect Plus account because he was a Basic Bank Account holder 
which wasnt eligible for application. Mr A wasnt being singled out.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. I will explain why. 
I cannot agree that HSBC has done anything wrong and denied Mr A an investment 
opportunity. Quite simply having a Basic Bank Account meant he wasnt eligible for the 
InvestDirect Plus account which Mr A needed to have in order to make stock market 
investments and US dollars. Like the investigator, I dont find that HSBC was obliged to 
inform him of this when he opened his Basic Bank Account and, in any event, Mr A  wasnt in 
the position to open any other type of bank account that would have potentially allowed him 
to make stock market investments. 
When Mr A first applied to open an account with HSBC, he tried to open an Advance Bank 
Account but wasnt able to do so due to credit reference agency reports. So, he proceeded 
to open his Basic Bank Account instead. 
My understanding of basic bank accounts is that they have straightforward features and 
limited facilities. And that the account provider  in this case HSBC  should take reasonable 
steps to prevent a customer from going overdrawn. If a customer does goes overdrawn, then 
the provider shouldnt charge a fee. So, this suggests that the provider has an obligation to 
protect the customer as well as its own position and in doing so the services it offers, which 
are linked to the account, are accordingly kept limited. 
A Basic Bank Account according to HSBCs website is only for people who dont qualify for 
one of our other accounts  perhaps because theyve had financial trouble or have a poor 
credit record. The website also advises that customers should first check to see if theyre 
eligible for its standard bank account as an alternative. 
I also note that the regulations about providers offering basic bank accounts state that in 
order to be eligible for a basic bank account the customer must either not hold an account 
with a provider in the UK which has at least the features of a basic account or not be eligible 
for any other payment accounts an account provider offers. 
Because Mr A  wasnt in the position to open a standard bank account with HSBC then it 
seems likely he would have been aware that limitations applied to the Basic Bank Account 
such as no access to an overdraft facility, credit cards or a cheque book. This suggests to me that Mr A would have been alerted to the fact that there were limitations implicit in only 
being able to open a Basic Bank Account, otherwise he would have been successful in his 
application for a standard bank account. 
Overall, I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator that HSBC wasnt obliged to 
explain any stock market or US dollar trading limitations of the Basic Bank Account at the 
outset unless asked. And I think the fact that there were limitations was implicit in the limited 
level of facilities it offered. 
When Mr A  became aware that the Basic Bank Account prevented him from being able to 
access the InvestDirect platform  and in order to do so he tried again to open an 
InvestDirect Plus account  this didnt happen due to failed credit checks. So, it remained 
that Mr A s credit records prevented him from opening any other type of bank account other 
than the Basic Bank Account and with the implicit limitations that come with that. I dont 
agree that HSBC was being unfair when the status of Mr A s Basic Bank Account prevented 
him from having access to the platform that would have allowed him to make stock market or 
US dollar investments. That type of account wasnt eligible.
In response to the investigators opinion Mr A has said that by being unable to invest due to 
his Basic Bank Account he lost out as a result. He said had wanted to invest up to £1m and 
wants compensation for his financial losses. But I dont agree. Quite simply Mr A s financial 
circumstances  for whatever reason  wouldnt allow him to open any other bank account 
than a basic one and the status of that account didnt allow him access to stock market or 
US dollar investment via that bank account, only selected Managed Funds  collective 
investments. 
As I have said above HSBC has an obligation to protect the customer as well as itself. And I 
note that on its InvestDirect share dealing account website page it makes clear that in order 
to open an InvestDirect share dealing account a customer must have an HSBC current 
account. But it specifically states this excludes the HSBC Basic Bank Account. Overall, I 
dont think HSBC was being unreasonable or unfair when limiting the eligibility of the account 
and access to the InvestDirect platform as the credit check failures suggest Mr A wasnt in 
the financial position to open an InvestDirect Plus account at the time. 
In reply to the investigator Mr A also said that his complaint was a serious one about HSBCs 
denial and discrimination. But again, I disagree. I think the limitations of the Basic Bank 
Account are made clear on its website and are necessarily prudent to protect both parties to 
the account. Mr A  has sent many screenshots of his investment portfolio and bank 
statements but those werent relevant at the time as Mr A  failed the credit checks to open a 
different type of bank account that would have given him access to direct stock market or US 
dollar investment in the first instance. 
Taking all of the above into account I dont uphold Mr A s complaint and I dont find that 
HSBC should be held responsible for any financial loss Mr A suggests he may have 
suffered. In any event it cant be known what investment decisions Mr A would have made if 
he had been in the position to invest into the stock market or US dollars so theres nothing to 
evidence that he suffered a financial loss. And I dont agree that HSBC has been unfair or 
unreasonable in not allowing a Basic Bank Account holder access to its InvestDirect 
platform. 
I know Mr A feels strongly about his complaint and no doubt will be disappointed in the 
conclusion that I have reached but I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have 
reached that decision. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr A s complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman