DRN-3634943
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service Oakwood Independent Mortgage Consultants provided 
when he was applying for a residential mortgage. 
What happened
In April 2017 Mr R met an Oakwood mortgage consultant to discuss obtaining a mortgage as 
a first-time buyer.
Based on Mr Rs circumstances, Oakwood recommended a mortgage with a company Ill 
call S. Oakwood submitted the application to S in May 2017 and he paid them a fee of £395. 
It turned out Mr R didnt meet Ss lending criteria because of concerns about his right to 
reside permanently in the UK. So, S declined his application. 
Mr R complained Oakwoods terms and conditions were unclear and misleading. He was 
unhappy hed had to pay their fee. He said Oakwood hadnt provided him with all the 
documents they should have provided. And he thought theyd breached data protection 
legislation in their dealings with him. More recently Mr Rs said he felt discriminated against.
Oakwood didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. So, he brought his concerns to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator felt Oakwood had treated Mr R fairly and reasonably and 
didnt uphold his complaint. Since Mr R didnt accept our investigators view, his complaints 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Rs strength of feeling about his complaint. I understand hed like a 
detailed analysis of the law relating to his contract and dealings with Oakwood. However, 
whilst I take relevant law, rules and regulations, guidance and industry best practice into 
account, my decision is based on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Rs 
complaint. I wont set out background material or what the parties have said in detail in my 
decision. No discourtesy is intended by that  it simply reflects the informal nature of the 
service we provide. 
Ill address each of Mr Rs key concerns:
Oakwoods contract documentation was unfair and misleading; it was unfair he had 
to pay a fee of £395
Only a court can decide if theres been a breach of legislation relating to the fairness or 
otherwise of the contracts Mr R signed with Oakwood. My remit is to consider whether 
Oakwood treated Mr R fairly and reasonably bearing in mind relevant law and guidance, as 
Ive mentioned above. 
The client agreement and mortgage administration agreements - which Mr R signed and 
dated - contained terms that I consider were clear, fair and not misleading as Id expect them 
to be in line with Financial Conduct Authority principles. They explained the service 
Oakwood would provide and the costs to Mr R.
Mr R attended a face to face meeting with Oakwood. Its reasonable to expect Mr R to have 
read the documents at the time as they were important in setting out the basis on which 
Oakwood would carry out work for him. If he felt anything was unclear, he had the chance to 
ask Oakwood for clarification. Its reasonable to think he understood the agreements before 
he signed and dated them to confirm he did.
The agreements made clear that a fee of £395 was payable by Mr R to Oakwood for the 
work they would carry out in researching his personal situation, his mortgage needs and 
objectives, sourcing a suitable mortgage and making a mortgage recommendation. And they 
said the £395 wouldnt be refunded if the mortgage application was declined due to 
undisclosed information relating to Mr Rs circumstances.
Oakwood completed a fact find recording Mr Rs personal information. Im satisfied Oakwood 
looked into his circumstances to find a suitable mortgage based on his needs and 
requirements including, for example, what he could afford and his wish to repay the 
mortgage by the end of the term. 
Oakwood sent Mr R a suitability letter setting out their recommendations. They asked Mr R 
to contact them if theyd got anything wrong. Im not aware he did so at the time. The letter 
made clear S was willing to provide a mortgage subject, amongst other things, to Mr Rs 
status. It also explained the fees due to Oakwood when they submitted the application. 
Oakwoods contemporaneous notes show they were trying to process Mr Rs application as 
quickly as possible due to the poor conditions he was living in at the time. They submitted 
the application to S even though there were discrepancies between the information on       
Mr Rs driving licence and the information hed given them about his nationality. The notes 
show Oakwood warned Mr R he needed to provide evidence he had a permanent right to 
live in the UK to avoid his application being cancelled. And when he was unable to do so, S 
declined the application.
I can understand Mr R was disappointed. But I think it was reasonable for Oakwood to 
submit the application given the assurances Mr R had given them and the warning theyd 
given him. Given Oakwood had carried out work for Mr R, it was fair for them to charge a 
fee. Bearing in mind the amount of work they did, I think the fee was reasonable in amount. 
And since the application failed because Mr R failed to meet Ss lending criteria due to 
concerns about his right to live in the UK, I think it was fair for Oakwood to retain the fee.
Oakwood failed to provide the mortgage application to Mr R to check before it was 
submitted; when he received it later, it raised data protection concerns
Mr R feels it was dishonest of Oakwood to submit the mortgage application to S without him 
seeing it first. He hasnt identified any errors in the application as far as Im aware and I think 
it fairly reflected the information Mr R had given Oakwood as part of the fact find. So, I dont 
think it would have changed what happened if theyd given him a copy at the time. Of 
course, Oakwood later corrected the information regarding his nationality, which Ill refer to 
below. But I dont agree Oakwood behaved dishonestly or unreasonably. 
Mr Rs concerned his data could have been processed outside the European Economic Area (EEA). Oakwood say they gave Mr R a data sharing statement setting out how his data 
would be processed when they met to discuss his mortgage requirements. It explained that 
in certain circumstances data might be processed outside the EEA. From what Ive seen, I 
think Oakwood probably gave the document to Mr R. So, he would have been aware of what 
it said at the time. But even if he didnt see it then, I dont think it affects the outcome of his 
complaint.
Im not aware of anything that shows Oakwood breached any data protection rules. 
Oakwood have explained that there was no need for Mr Rs information to be processed 
outside the EEA - since his application was made to S, any data processing took place 
within the UK. Ive no reason to doubt what Oakwood say about that. And I think theyve 
done enough to put Mr Rs mind at rest. 
Oakwood discriminated against Mr R
Mr Rs said he felt his application to S was turned down on grounds of his nationality. I dont 
have the power to decide if Oakwood breached the Equality Act 2010  thats a matter for 
the courts. But I can decide if Oakwood treated Mr R unfairly bearing the provisions of the 
Act in mind.
Oakwoods role was to submit an application to S. It was Ss decision as to whether or not to 
accept that application based on its lending criteria. Oakwood wasnt involved in the lending 
decision.
Once Oakwood had confirmation of Mr Rs nationality, it was right for them to let S know so 
that Mr Rs application wasnt based on false information. If theyd failed to do that, both they 
and Mr R could have faced allegations of dishonest behaviour. I think Oakwoods actions 
were fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr R will be disappointed, I dont uphold his 
complaint about Oakwood
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman