DRN-1637831
The complaint
Ms Z has complained about XL Caitlin Insurance Company UK Limited. She isnt happy that 
it turned down her claim under her travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Z was due to travel back from her trip abroad in September 2018. Unfortunately, Ms Z 
was unable to make her flight due to the sad death of her nephew. Ms Z claimed on her 
travel insurance policy for the additional costs she incurred to return home some days later. 
Caitlin declined Ms Zs claim saying she wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of 
her policy. So Ms Z complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms Z but didnt uphold her complaint. Although he 
sympathised with Ms Zs difficult position he didnt think that Caitlin had done anything 
wrong. It was just unfortunate that the policy didnt cover the circumstances surrounding 
Ms Zs claim and so he thought Caitlin hadnt acted unfairly. 
As Ms Z didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for the extremely difficult position Ms Z 
found herself, I agree with our investigator that Caitlin havent acted unfairly, Ill explain why.
Ms Z was looking to recoup the costs she incurred travelling back to the UK because she 
had understandably missed her flight due to her nephews sudden death. I can really 
understand why Ms Z feels so strongly about the fact her claim was turned down in such 
unfortunate circumstances.  
However, the terms and conditions under which Ms Z was entitled to make a claim are set 
out in its policy document and are quite restrictive - as they are under most travel insurance 
policies. The terms and conditions explain Caitlin will pay up to the amount shown in the 
summary of cover for necessary additional travel costs incurred in returning home in the 
event Ms Z had a valid curtailment claim. Or a missed departure due to a vehicle breakdown 
or accident or delays of public transport. But, there isnt any provision in the policy which 
would allow for a claim in the circumstances Ms Z found herself in. 
As such I cant ask Caitlin to pay the claim as it wouldnt be fair, and I have to be fair to both 
sides. Unfortunately, Ms Z didnt meet the criteria for making a claim in relation to curtailment 
or missed flight departures. And Ms Z says she accepts she wasnt covered by the policy. 
I do take Ms Zs point that the circumstances she found herself were so rare that they should 
be included in the exceptional circumstances of a policy. But it isnt for this service to tell an 
insurer what they should or shouldnt include in their policies. And it is of note that most 
travel insurance policies, if not all, wouldnt cover Ms Zs claim in circumstances like this. 
In this case its my role to look at whether Caitlin acted fairly and in line with the policy in 
declining the claim. Having considered everything Ms Z and Caitlin have provided I cant say 
Caitlin have acted unfairly in turning down the claim. Its unfortunate that Ms Z found herself 
in such tragic circumstances which meant she needed to claim on her travel insurance, but 
they were such that they werent covered by the policy. Whilst I have every sympathy for 
Ms Z I cant see that Caitlin has done anything wrong as it has simply followed the policy 
terms and conditions in turning down the claim, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons outlined above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman