DRN-4239354
The complaint
Ms A complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) mis-sold a level 
term assurance policy to her.
What happened
In 1999 Ms A met with an adviser who worked for Edward James Financial Services, who 
was an appointed representative of L&G at that time. She was sold a level term assurance 
policy (LTA) which provided both life and critical illness cover (CIC) and it began towards the 
beginning of 2000. The premium was £30.35 per month, the term was 25 years, with a sum 
assured £141,200. It also included waiver of premium benefit, which had a six-month 
deferred period and cost £0.67 per month, included in the overall premium.
In 2019 Ms A raised a complaint about the policy, in summary saying that it wasnt 
appropriate for her, that fees and commission werent explained or disclosed, and they didnt 
check it was affordable for her. She added that PPI had been mis-sold. L&G replied and 
explained no PPI had been sold. However, they upheld the complaint about the LTA policy, 
as they felt that the life cover element of the policy wasnt suitable for Ms A. They calculated 
that the life cover cost £4.34 per month and so offered to refund that amount, plus interest at 
8% per year. 
Ms A rejected the offer and brought her complaint to our service, saying that L&G ought to 
provide a full refund as they had found the policy to be mis-sold. An investigator at our 
service found that L&Gs offer was fair  he said that there was evidence that the policy was 
sold to protect a buy-to-let mortgage and generally, having cover in case of a critical illness 
is not unsuitable protection to have. He had no evidence of whether the mortgage was 
interest only or repayment basis from L&G or Ms A, so he didnt have a reason to say that a 
decreasing policy ought to have been sold, rather than a level policy. 
Ms A disagreed  she said that there wasnt proof that she asked for, needed, or had to take 
out the policy, as a whole. She disputed that shed been advised, as she feels that advice 
can only be given if its impartial, and here the adviser was tied just to L&G. She didnt think 
the policy had been sold to protect a mortgage, especially as L&G had provided no evidence 
of the mortgage itself. As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a 
decision. I issued a provisional decision, and said in summary:
I was persuaded that Ms A was sold the LTA to protect her buy-to-let mortgages, as 
there were references to a mortgage in the application form.
I had found evidence that the mortgages were on a repayment basis, rather than 
interest only.
The CIC element of the policy was suitable but ought to have been on a decreasing 
term basis, to match the type of mortgage sold. 
The waiver of premium benefit was suitable, provided L&G could confirm Ms A was 
eligible for it.
I agreed with L&G and the investigator that the life cover element of the policy was 
unsuitable.
Regarding affordability, I had minimal evidence of Ms As income and outgoings from 
1999. However, given Ms A had paid for the policy for 20 years, and I was satisfied 
she knew what the policy was for, I found it to be affordable. 
The fees and commission were clearly explained and would likely have been set out 
several times in the point-of-sale documents.
To put things right, I said L&G should refund the difference between the policy Ms A had 
paid for, and one on a decreasing basis, without life cover, plus interest. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms A disagreed entirely with the findings I'd come to. Broadly, she felt what I'd proposed 
within my provisional decision was unfair and biased toward L&G. 
L&G replied and also rejected my decision. They confirmed that Ms A had stopped paying 
premiums toward the policy in April 2022. They provided the fact find from the sale of the 
policy in 1999, and a recommendation letter from a sale of different products in November 
2000. They said:
The 1999 fact find showed that Ms A wanted the level cover as she (or her family) 
would benefit from the surplus paid over and above the mortgage debt.
The recommendation letter from November 2000 showed that she wanted life cover 
at that time to protect any future dependants.
On the basis of this additional evidence, L&G no longer felt the complaint should be upheld 
and withdrew the offer they originally made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by saying that its very disappointing that L&G has produced this new 
evidence at such a late stage of our investigation. As we are an informal service, given its 
been provided, I cant ignore it and must take it into account. However, having done so, my 
decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision - Ill explain why. 
From the fact find thats now been provided, I can confirm that the policy was sold to protect 
Ms As buy-to-let mortgages. I can also see that the total amount borrowed under the 
mortgages, and their term, matched the sum assured and term of the policy. Ive gone on to 
set out my findings on each element of the policy, and Ms As complaint points, separately 
for clarity. 
The life cover 
Ive carefully considered the 1999 fact find and the comments from November 2000 to 
decide whether it was suitable for the life cover element of the policy to be included. Having 
done so, my opinion hasnt changed  Im not persuaded that the inclusion of life cover in 
1999 was suitable. Advice should be given based on a customers circumstances at the 
point of sale  not some unknown future point in time. In 1999 Ms A had no dependants. 
L&G has also said the notes the adviser wrote on the 1999 fact find show Ms A wanted life 
cover. The notes say:
Client has just arranged 2 buy to let mortgages via Bank of Scotland with a joint advance of 
£141,200. Therefore to pay off your mortgage should you die before the end of the mortgage term. The sum payable on a claim arising is fixed, whereas the outstanding balance of your 
repayment mortgages should reduce! Any surplus provides additional financial security for 
your family. Also there is a good possibility that you will change the buy to let portfolio and 
level term assurance best suits this need.
Although those comments are written under the heading of Your priorities Im satisfied they 
are a reflection of the advisers recommendation  not a reflection of Ms As thoughts on the 
type of cover she wanted. Theres no evidence of Ms A being aware of the different options 
in terms of price of the policy with or without life cover so that she could make an informed 
choice. Nor is there specific family mentioned or any reason recorded as to why they 
wouldnt want to sell these buy-to-let properties, or wouldnt be able to continue the 
mortgage payments, If Ms A were to pass away during the mortgage term. So, I dont think 
the brief second sentence in the above quote is enough to show that the inclusion of life 
cover was suitable for Ms A.
This is further supported by the contradictory information within the fact find about having 
level rather than decreasing cover. When asked about needs other than for mortgage 
protection in 1999, Ms A answered that she never wanted to talk about life cover. So, the 
fact the adviser noted it was a priority for her to have level rather than decreasing life cover 
doesnt make sense, when read alongside the rest of the fact find. 
If she had wanted to talk about life cover for family protection purposes, I would have 
expected the adviser to consider that specific objective separately, which they didnt here. 
Given the advisers notes contradict the clear answers Ms A had previously given, I think its 
more likely that the notes are a reflection of the advisers recommendations. 
I note the adviser mentioned potential changes in Ms As buy-to-let portfolio, but again 
merely because there may be an unspecified future need for more (or less) cover, is not a 
good reason to sell a policy that was unsuitable at that point in time. So, Im still persuaded 
the life cover element of this policy was unsuitable. 
The critical illness cover
In general, its not unsuitable for anyone taking out a large debt such as a mortgage, to 
protect it with CIC. If they are then diagnosed with one of the illnesses covered by the policy, 
the debt can be paid off and they wouldnt need to worry about being able to continue paying 
that debt  especially if they arent able to work due to that illness. I note the properties were 
buy-to-let, so Ms A might argue that the mortgage would continue to be paid when they are 
occupied. However, in the event she was critically ill, she may not be able to continue her 
employment  so may need to rely on the income from the properties for living costs. So, 
there would still be a benefit to having this protection.
I appreciate Ms A feels strongly that because part of the policy was unsuitable, that the 
whole amount shes paid ought to be refunded. However, I dont consider that to be a fair 
approach. My aim is to put Ms A back in the position shed be in now, had she not been 
given unsuitable advice. If that had happened, Im satisfied shed still have been sold a 
policy providing CIC. So, I dont think the whole premium ought to be refunded simply 
because the life cover part of the policy was unsuitable.  
L&Gs arguments havent changed my findings that Ms A ought to have been sold a 
decreasing policy rather than a level one. As Ive set out above, Ms A was asked in 1999 if 
she wanted to discuss protection other than for mortgages. As well as saying never in reply 
to life assurance, she also said never in reply to critical illness cover and income protection.  
This is clear evidence of Ms A not having a desire for protection beyond that for the 
mortgages. So, I find the advisers recommendation for have a surplus to provide for family protection to be unsuitable and unnecessary. Im satisfied that Ms A should have been sold 
a decreasing policy and not a level policy. 
Ive set below how L&G should go about putting this right. 
Waiver of premium benefit
If Ms A had been unable to work during the term of the policy due to incapacitation, she 
could have claimed on this part of the policy. L&G would then have waived the premiums for 
the policy, for the time Ms A was not able to work. It had a six-month deferral period  which 
means Ms A would need to be unable to work for six months before L&G would begin to 
waive any premiums. The six-month deferral period is commonly chosen because many 
employers pay sick pay for the first six months employees are off work  so this benefit 
would start after the employers sick pay ends.    
A description of this benefit is given in the application form for the policy, and it includes that 
the benefit would be paid, provided the insured isnt following any other gainful 
employment. L&G have confirmed that the income Ms A received from the buy-to-let 
properties wouldnt have prevented a successful claim on this element of the policy  so she 
was eligible for this protection. 
As she would have been able to benefit from this, had she needed to, Im satisfied this part 
of the policy was suitable for Ms A. This is for similar reasons to why critical illness cover 
isnt unsuitable generally  its a helpful protection element for people to have in case of 
illness. This benefit is usually payable in more circumstances than CIC, as it doesnt appear 
to be restricted to just certain illnesses  merely incapacity to work. 
Was the policy affordable? 
Ms A has mentioned that the adviser didnt make sure the policy was affordable, and she 
remembers missing premiums for the policy at certain times over the last 23 years. However, 
L&G has confirmed that none were missed. 
Now that I have the fact find from 1999, I can see that after an approximate expenditure 
calculation was completed, Ms A had £1,500 disposable income per month. Although the 
expenditure details that the adviser recorded werent particularly detailed, Im satisfied the 
amount of disposable income provides for a sufficient margin for error. 
Ms A has said nothing specific in her reply to my provisional decision regarding this point. 
So, especially given the further evidence I now have, I dont think it would be fair to say the 
adviser sold a policy to Ms A that they knew would have been unaffordable. 
Were the fees and commission clearly explained?
The only paperwork I have from the sale is the fact find, the application form, the illustration, 
and an acceptance letter from L&G to Ms A dated 17 January 2000. Im persuaded the fees 
and commission were clearly explained to Ms A in the illustration. Its likely that they were 
also set out in any product documents she would have received in 1999/2000, like the policy 
schedule, key features and the terms and conditions, as that information is commonly found 
in those documents. 
Ms A hasnt provided any specific comments about this in reply to my provisional decision. 
Having reconsidered the evidence, I see no reason to change my findings on this point. So, I 
dont uphold Ms As complaint point about the way the fees and commission were explained.Putting things right
L&G has confirmed that a decreasing CIC policy, with waiver of premium benefit, would have 
cost £25.14, which is £5.21 per month less than Ms A has paid. 
L&G should refund that difference. Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be 
added to the difference from the date each premium was paid to the date of settlement. 
If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should also give Ms A a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited should pay Ms A the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman