DRN-1053268
 
The complaint
Ms F complains about the problems she experienced following TSB Bank plc upgrading its 
IT systems. 
What happened
In early 2018 TSB upgraded its IT systems. The upgrade caused problems which affected a 
number of its customers, including Ms F.
Ms F complained. Ms F said shed had issues accessing both her personal and business 
accounts, and couldnt make payments or see her mortgage statement for a number of 
months. Shed had to go into branch to make the payments she needed to, and said the 
branches were incredibly busy at that time due to the number of customers in a similar 
situation.
TSB sent Ms F two responses  one relating to the issues shed had with her business 
account and one about her personal account. It apologised and offered her money for the 
costs shed incurred as well as the trouble shed been caused. With regard to her personal 
account it offered her £100 for the trouble its IT issues had put her through and £50 for 
expenses like phone calls, fuel and parking.
Ms F remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service. She said TSB had offered 
her more compensation in relation to her business account than her personal one. She felt 
the inconvenience and stress shed suffered was similar with both accounts, and considered 
TSB should have offered more to settle this complaint. Ms F also told us she wasnt happy 
TSB had credited her account with compensation before it issued its response or she agreed 
to accept it.
One of our investigators looked into things. He considered TSBs offer of compensation was 
fair, taking into account the impact TSBs IT problems had on Ms F. So he didnt think it 
needed to do any more.
Ms F disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She reiterated the amount of 
stress shed been caused over a couple of months, especially when you are responsible for 
paying other peoples wages and VAT etc and all of your household bills and you have no 
idea what is in either of your accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Ms F feels very strongly about her complaint. And Ive given her submissions 
about the impact of TSBs IT issues on her careful consideration. But ultimately, like our 
investigator, I think TSBs offer to settle this complaint is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.Its not in dispute that Ms F was impacted by TSBs problems. And Im glad to see it has 
apologised and offered to put things right.
Its also important to note that Ms F had a business account as well as her personal one. But 
in reaching my decision I have to focus on the consequences for Ms F in relation to just her 
personal account. While TSB might have offered Ms F more money when she complained 
about her business account, that doesnt mean the amount it has offered here is unfair.
Ms Fs ability to manage her personal account was affected for a number of months. I dont 
doubt the inconvenience she was caused by having to go into branch to make payments 
towards her bills, and follow things up with TSB. But taking everything into account, I think 
£150 is fair compensation for the trouble and cost Ms F incurred following TSBs IT upgrade.
I understand Ms F was surprised to see TSB paid money straight into her account before it 
had even issued its response to her complaint. But I understand why TSB did so, given the 
large number of people whod complained about its IT problems and to whom it wanted to 
pay some compensation to say sorry. I dont think paying money in advance of the response 
meant Ms F wasnt free to reject their offer, or that it meant more compensation couldnt 
have been awarded by either TSB or our service if the circumstances meant that was the fair 
thing to do.
Overall Im satisfied Ms F was caused significant inconvenience in managing her personal 
bank account as a result of TSBs issues. But Im satisfied that its apology and offer of £150 
compensation is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint, because the compensation TSB Bank 
plc has already paid Ms F is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2019.
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman