DRN-3188351
The complaint
Mr S has complained that he was incorrectly told by Clydesdale Bank Plc in January 2018 
that he could not have an offset facility if he ported (transferred) his mortgage product onto a 
new property. As a result, Mr S believes he has lost out on £6,000 in interest paid to 
Clydesdale, which would have come off the capital balance of the mortgage if offsetting had 
taken place.
What happened
I can summarise briefly what happened. Mr S had a mortgage with Clydesdale that was on a 
discounted interest rate product which ran until August 2018. The mortgage was on an offset 
basis, which means that interest on Mr Ss savings with Clydesdale was offset against the 
mortgage interest. 
In January 2018 Ms S was thinking about moving home and discussed his mortgage with 
Clydesdale. He wanted to avoid an early repayment charge and so was advised that he 
could port his existing mortgage product. 
It is at this point that the events giving rise to the complaint took place. Mr S says he was 
told he couldnt offset the mortgage if he ported it. Clydesdale says that it thinks its more 
likely Mr S was told that if he took out a fixed rate product, he wouldnt be able to offset that, 
as Clydesdale doesnt offer offsetting on fixed rate mortgages. Clydesdale says that the 
mortgage adviser recalls that the porting of the 2016 product was intended to go ahead on 
an offset basis.
However, due to an error which Clydesdale has admitted to, offsetting wasnt set up, and so 
on completion of Mr Ss purchase in March 2018, the ported mortgage product wasnt offset 
against his savings.
The mortgage product came to an end in August 2018. In July 2018 Mr S went online and 
selected a new product. Although there was the option for an offset mortgage, Mr S didnt 
select that and instead chose a fixed rate product, to which offsetting doesnt apply.
In August 2020, just before that product expired, Mr S spoke to an adviser at Clydesdale. He 
said that it was at this point he learned for the first time that he could have had an offset 
product when he ported his 2016 mortgage in 2018. 
Mr S complained to Clydesdale. He said wanted to be compensated for his losses as a 
result of not offsetting from March 2018 to August 2020.
Clydesdale upheld the complaint and accepted it had made an error in not offsetting Mr Ss 
mortgage product when it was ported onto his new property in March 2018. The bank 
calculated that if this had happened, Mr S would have been better off by £420.32. This 
represented the savings he would have made between 28 March 2018 and 31 August 2018, 
when the product came to an end. Clydesdale also paid Mr S £150 for the trouble and upset 
hed been caused.
However, Clydesdale didnt think it was responsible for Mr S choosing a fixed rate product in 
July 2018; he had done this online, and the application process showed that there was the 
option for him to have chosen an offset product, if hed wanted one.
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He 
wanted to know why Clydesdale hadnt upheld his complaint. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but was satisfied that the redress Clydesdale had 
already paid was fair and reasonable. She noted Mr S hadnt had any advice from 
Clydesdale when hed selected his new product in 2018, but she noted that Mr S could have 
selected an offset product at that point if hed wanted to, rather than the fixed rate hed 
chosen, to which offsetting didnt apply. As a result, she didnt think Clydesdale was 
responsible for any losses Mr S had incurred since that point.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that in 
2018 he was wrongly advised by Clydesdale that the only way to avoid an ERC on his 2016 
mortgage product was to port it onto his new mortgage. 
Mr S also said that when the product expired in August 2018, the advisor hed dealt with in 
January 2018 should have emailed him to tell him that his mortgage was expiring and that 
he could apply for a new offset mortgage. Instead, he was simply informed by Clydesdale 
that his mortgage product was expiring. Mr S also says that he is a premier banking client 
of Clydesdale and expected a better service from the bank. Mr S also said that the reason 
he selected a product in August 2018 that wasnt offset is because he was already offsetting 
a buy-to-let mortgage.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons.
I will explain, first, that if Mr S hadnt ported his mortgage product onto his new property in 
March 2018 he would, in fact, have incurred an ERC of 2% of the amount repaid. Clydesdale 
was therefore correct in telling Mr S that, in order to avoid the ERC, he would need to port 
the 2016 product onto his new mortgage.
Clydesdale has acknowledged that there was an error when the new mortgage completed in 
March 2018, because the old mortgage product wasnt offset against Mr Ss savings. 
Because the bank has accepted its mistake, I dont need to make any further findings on 
this. All I need to do is to assess what redress is appropriate.
In this regard, Mr S believes Clydesdale is responsible for ongoing future losses as a result 
of him selecting a fixed rate product (online, without advice from the bank) in 2018, rather 
than a product to which offsetting would apply (which he had the option of choosing). 
However, I disagree with Mr S that Clydesdale should have told him he could apply for a 
new offset product in 2018. All that Clydesdale was required to do was to notify Mr S that his current product was due to expire, and invite him to look online for a new product or to 
contact the bank to discuss his mortgage requirements. Mr S chose a product online, a fixed 
rate to which offsetting did not apply.
Overall, the evidence doesnt persuade me that Clydesdale should be responsible for any 
loss of benefit due to Mr Ss mortgage not being offset between August 2018 and August 
2020. Thats because the product choice he made was done without advice from 
Clydesdale. In the circumstances, Im afraid I have to disappoint Mr S, because Im not 
persuaded that Clydesdale is at fault in relation to the product choice Mr S made in 2018.
Im satisfied the redress Clydesdale offered for its mistake in not offsetting the mortgage in 
March 2018  £420.32  puts Mr S back in the position hed have been in if the mortgage 
had been offset at that time, and up until the product expired in August 2018. I also think the 
£150 offered for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable. Because Ive not found 
Clydesdale to be at fault in relation to any other issues, I am not ordering the bank to pay 
any further redress.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman