DRN-3697035
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the overdrawn balance text alert service provided by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
What happened
Mr B received a text alert from Barclays that his account was overdrawn by £39.80. Mr B 
went into branch that day and deposited £40 to take his account out of an overdrawn 
position, but he then received another alert from Barclays shortly afterwards advising that his 
account was overdrawn again, this time by approximately £10.00. Mr B wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Bs complaint. They explained that the second text alert had been sent 
because of a later £10 transaction that had completed on Mr Bs account after hed made the 
payment of £40 in regard to the first text alert. Because of this, Barclays didnt feel that 
theyd acted unfairly towards Mr B and they didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied, and he felt that Barclays were deliberately causing him to be 
recorded as being overdrawn in order to justify turning him down for a short-term lending 
facility. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Barclays had acted 
unfairly towards Mr B in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt uphold his 
complaint. Mr B remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Barclays explanation of what happened here  that their 
text alert system was triggered when Mr Bs account went £39.80 overdrawn, and then later 
triggered when a subsequent £10 transaction placed the account into an overdrawn position 
once again  is accurate. 
As the account holder, its Mr Bs responsibility to monitor his ongoing account balance and 
to ensure the account doesnt become overdrawn. As such, it was Mr Bs responsibility to 
have been aware of the pending £10 transaction that would take his account back into an 
overdrawn position and to have taken the necessary steps to avoid that  such as making a 
payment of £50 into his account rather than the £40 that he did  if he wanted his account to 
not become overdrawn for the second time. 
Mr B may argue that he deposited the £40 into his account as he did because he was 
following the instructions of the text alert that he received from Barclays. But Barclays text 
alert system is a tool designed to assist account holders in maintaining a watch over their 
own accounts, and it doesnt absolve account holders of their responsibilities to accurately 
monitor their own accounts. And so, Im satisfied that it was Mr Bs responsibility to have 
checked the status of any potentially pending payments that might affect his account moving 
forwards, having received the first text alert that he did.  
Ultimately, as explained, its Mr Bs responsibility to ensure that his account is managed 
appropriately. And so, if Mr Bs account has gone overdrawn by small amounts on regular 
occasions because he hasnt monitored his account balance proactively himself, then I feel 
that Mr B should bear the sole and full responsibility for that  given his responsibility as an 
account holder as previously mentioned. And I dont feel that Barclays assistive text alert 
system should rightfully be considered at fault for Mr B not accurately monitoring his own 
account balance as Mr B appears to contend here.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. I trust Mr B will understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman