DRN-3384402
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled a claim under his 
home emergency cover.
What happened
Mr M has a home emergency policy with Aviva that provides cover for a property he rents to 
a tenant.
On 31 October 2021, Mr M called Aviva to make a claim as the boiler in the rented property 
wasnt working properly. 
Mr M asked that Aviva send a specific company (who Ill refer to as A) out to deal with the 
boiler. Mr M asked for this particular company due to previous service issues hed had. Aviva 
tried to accommodate Mr Ms request but ultimately both the company Mr M asked for and 
another business (who Ill call B) were booked to attend the property two days later. 
There were a series of process and system issues between Aviva, A and B, and Mr M had to 
make a considerable number of phone calls to Aviva and B in order to arrange the service 
he wanted. 
B attended the property on 2 November and ordered a part to fix the boiler. Then company A 
attended later the same day and dealt with the immediate problem on site. It advised Mr M 
that he should organise a plumber to fix a blockage in an external pipe.
Aviva also sent mail to Mr M using the tenants address when Mr M had specifically 
requested that his own address be used for correspondence. 
Mr M complained to Aviva about a range of issues. He asks for £250 compensation for his 
anxiety, frustration, effort, time and expense and he asks for Aviva to explain what happened 
during his claim that caused him so much confusion and stress.
Aviva responded to Mr M in detail and agreed that parts of its service had been poor. It also 
explained about how its system allocated work on contractor availability by postcode to try 
and help Mr M understand why some of the issues may have arisen. It offered Mr M £50 
compensation for his inconvenience.
Mr M remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator issued 
a view saying that she could understand Mr Ms frustration but that £50 compensation was in 
line with what this service would recommend given the short amount of time Mr Ms tenant 
was disrupted for.
Mr M didnt agree with the view so his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Id like to assure Mr M that Ive considered all of his points carefully even if Ive not referred 
to them here and Ive focused on the key points hes raised. 
My responsibility here is to consider if what Aviva did in the claims process was fair and 
reasonable and, if appropriate, decide what amount of compensation is suitable.
Mr M says in his complaint that Aviva have written to him repeatedly at his tenants address, 
which he has said specifically should not happen. Its very important that a customers 
correspondence is sent to where the customer wants to receive it. Aviva have explained that 
its system stores the risk address as the primary one it uses, but its call handlers didnt 
follow the correct procedures with Mr M to clarify his correspondence address. 
I agree with Mr M that this isnt acceptable. Aviva need to make sure that its system stores 
information in the right way and if that isnt possible then it needs to make sure its staff use a 
robust process to capture and use his data as he wishes.
Mr M says he is unhappy with Aviva inability to provide him with the service he is paying for. 
I can understand why, as he had paid for the cover and Mr M says Aviva wasnt able to 
provide the service he wanted without a great deal of his time and intervention. Mr M said he 
was on the telephone for 15 hours in total which is considerable. 
Ultimately, Mr Ms tenant had their boiler fixed within two days by the company Mr M wanted 
to use, but only because he was willing to spend many hours dealing with the matter. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mr M to ask for a specific company to handle the repair 
given that hed had a problem with another of Avivas contractors in a previous claim.
Avivas final response letter contains answers to Mr Ms points and it agrees with many of his 
arguments that he was given wrong information and Aviva didnt pass on his claim details as 
it said it would. It also talks about the way that Avivas systems operate and interact with 
their various suppliers and when I read its responses I can understand how their process 
was supposed to work, and that it came across as disjointed and poor to Mr M.
Mr M points out that there has been a series of problems with Avivas claims service which 
he says demonstrates its unreliability and an inability to learn from its mistakes. Aviva say 
that it has a commitment to learn from customer feedback and I hope Mr M understands that 
in this claim he has given Aviva a great deal of information it can learn from. If Mr M isnt 
happy with Avivas continuing service then he is, of course, free to take his business 
elsewhere.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration with Avivas process and the errors it has made. I think 
Avivas suggested compensation payment of £50 for Mr Ms distress and inconvenience is 
too low given the amount of time and effort it took Mr M to sort the claim out, and because of 
Avivas mistakes with Mr Ms correspondence address. I think Mr Ms request of £250 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience is at the higher end of what this service 
would recommend but I also think its fair and reasonable given Avivas repeated poor 
service.
Response to my provisional decision
Both Mr M and Aviva agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr M and Aviva agreed with my provisional decision, my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr M 
£250 compensation in total for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman