DRN-2662124
The complaint
Miss B complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) has handled a 
claim for subsidence at her property.
What happened
Miss Bs property first suffered from subsidence in the 1990s. In 2011, Miss B made a claim 
for damage under her home insurance policy. An assessment was carried out by loss 
adjusters and it was identified that the cracking to the property had been caused by 
subsidence. The cause of the movement was found to be shrinkage of the clay subsoil due 
to heavy vegetation adjacent to the property. The claim was therefore accepted and 
remedial work was undertaken, which was completed in 2014. This involved removal of 
vegetation and roots, together with a period of monitoring, followed by repairs to the 
property, which commenced once the monitoring had shown the property to be stable.
A further episode of subsidence then occurred in 2018. Miss Bs representative says the 
stability works that were carried out in 2011 must have been inadequate, as the damage 
occurred to the same area of the property in 2018. There was also a disagreement about 
whether the plastering works carried out during the previous claim were effective. The 
plaster had not properly bonded to the wall and had to be re-done. However, this issue has 
now been resolved. Fairmead initially offered to cover 50% of the work, but has now 
accepted that this issue will form part of the current claim. 
The remaining issue concerns proper stabilisation of the property, which Miss B believes 
was not adequately addressed during the 2011 claim. Miss Bs representative says she has 
also suffered a long wait for remedial action to start as part of the current ongoing claim, due 
to the first arborists report being declared inadequate by all parties  and an initial refusal to 
monitor the property even when new cracks were appearing. Monitoring eventually took 
place in relation to the new claim and it was determined that more vegetation had to be 
removed.
Miss B raised a complaint with Fairmead. It responded saying it had looked into the 2011 
claim, and had decided that the previous claim was dealt with adequately  and that the 
current issues were not a continuation of previous issues. They suggested the current 
movement related to dry weather conditions last summer. Unhappy with Fairmeads 
response, Miss B referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint, but didnt think Fairmead had acted 
unreasonably. He agreed that the monitoring showed the property had been stabilised at the 
time. As Miss B didnt agree with our investigators assessment, the complaint has now 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Fairmead has provided evidence from the claim in 2011, which includes the initial loss 
adjusters report and schedule of repairs, the arboriculturalists report, the loss adjusters 
addendum report and final report, a Certificate of Structural Adequacy and a satisfaction 
sheet. Ive also looked at the correspondence between the parties.
Miss Bs representative has made submissions about the length of time between the claims 
indicating the previous claim wasnt handled properly, the area where the current damage is 
being exactly the same as the areas damaged during the last incident of subsidence, and 
hes also made a point about climate change and dry weather conditions  saying insurers 
need to take this into account. But I dont agree with what hes said. Insurers need to do 
what the policy says theyll agree to do. And in this case, Miss Bs policy says the insurer will 
pay for loss or damage to your buildings caused by; Subsidence and that it will pay the 
cost of any necessary repair or replacement work.
So Ive considered whether the insurer fulfilled its obligations under the policy and whether it 
carried out what was reasonably believed to be effective and lasting repair work at the time. 
And looking at the timeline of events, it seems that the initial proposal was to monitor the 
movement over a period of 3-6 months after vegetation was removed, to see how much the 
property moved over that time. But the level monitoring actually took place from August 2012 
until July 2013, over a period of almost a year. The results showed only minor seasonal 
movement occurred.
Under the circumstances, I wouldve expected an adequate period of monitoring to take 
place before a Certificate could be issued and remedial work could take place. And I 
consider a period of almost one year to be an adequate amount of time to closely monitor 
any movement. So I dont think Fairmead acted unreasonably in relying on the results from 
the level monitoring, as this was conducted over a reasonable period of time. And I have no 
reason to doubt that the results at the time showed the property was stable. Subsequently, a 
Certificate of Structural Adequacy was issued.
Miss Bs representative has said the short period of time in between the two claims should 
demonstrate that there were issues with the handling of the previous claim. But I dont agree 
with this. The property was deemed stable in 2013 following an extensive period of 
monitoring and the current movement wasnt identified until 2018, over five years later.
The current claim is ongoing, and requires the removal of more vegetation than the previous 
claim required. I do not consider this to be unusual. As our investigator mentioned, there are 
possible reasons why further damage can occur, even after effective mitigation measures 
have been carried out. And a Certificate of Structural Adequacy is by no means a guarantee 
that no further subsidence will occur in future for reasons that may be unrelated to the cause 
of the first subsidence.
In this case, the evidence is inconclusive as to whether the cause of the latest subsidence is 
related to the causes of the previous claim or not. And in the absence of conclusive 
evidence, I have to base my decision on the available information and what I think most 
likely. And based on the reports Ive seen, as well as the monitoring that took place, the work 
that was carried out, and the time thats passed, I think its most likely that the current 
problems at the property are a result of further vegetation as well as more recent very dry 
weather conditions, that were not identified as the main issues in 2011. 
Although Miss Bs representative feels it would be unreasonable to do so, Miss B is free to 
arrange for an independent structural engineer to assess the issues at her own cost, and if the findings are different to what Ive noted from the available evidence  then any additional 
report should be put to Fairmead for its consideration.
I appreciate that Miss B is not in good health at the moment, so the provision of further 
compelling evidence may not be possible. Im really sorry to hear that and I wish her a 
speedy recovery. But Im afraid that based on the information I have, I cant doubt what the 
existing reports say  which all indicate Fairmeads handling of the previous claim was 
adequate and that it completed the repairs it was required to carry out, following the various 
assessments, extensive period of monitoring, and reports confirming the propertys stability. 
So, although its unfortunate that the property has suffered another instance of subsidence  
and while I can appreciate just how distressing this must be for Miss B  it wouldnt be fair 
for me to say Fairmead has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman