DRN-3781437
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Arrow Global Limited closed and defaulted her credit card despite
agreeing a payment arrangement with debt collectors acting on its behalf.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Arrow acquired a credit card debt in Mrs Bs name in March 2020. The account was active 
and no default had been reported. There was no minimum payment set at the time Arrow 
purchased the account.
Arrow instructed a third party business Ill call B to contact Mrs B with a view to collecting 
the debt. In February 2021 Arrow sent a default notice to Mrs B that said she needed to 
make a payment of £189 by 18 April 2021 to stop her account defaulting. A few days later, 
Mrs B discussed her account with N and agreed a payment arrangement for £15 a month.
Mrs B maintained the payment arrangement, but Arrow terminated the credit card account 
and recorded a default in April 2021. Mrs B went on to complain to both N and Arrow about 
the decision to record a default on her credit file. N said it was acting on Arrows behalf but 
accepted that its agents hadnt gone over default notices with Mrs B when discussing the 
payment arrangement. Arrow said it had acted in line with its default notice but offered to 
backdate the default to September 2020.
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Bs complaint and upheld it. They said the 
original lender shouldve taken the decision to close and default the credit card in 2016 and 
asked Arrow to backdate the default to that date. Arrow asked to appeal and said it isnt 
responsible for mistakes made by the previous lender. As Arrow asked to appeal, Mrs Bs 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional decision in this case. I agree with the 
investigators view Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. But Ive reached my conclusions 
for different reasons. And I intend to resolve Mrs Bs complaint in a different way. As a 
result, I need to give both parties a chance to respond before I make my final decision.
The account was purchased by Arrow and N was instructed to collect the debt on its behalf. 
I can see Arrow sent Mrs B a default notice in February 2021. And Im satisfied Mrs B 
received it.
On receipt of the default notice, Mrs B contacted N. Mrs B went on to agree a payment 
arrangement with N for £15 a month against an outstanding balance of £189. If the 
payments were maintained, the outstanding balance wouldve been repaid in around a 
year and a half. I havent seen anything that shows Mrs B wouldnt have continued to 
make payments if the payment arrangement had continued. Mrs B made five payments in 
line with the agreed arrangement before she found the account had been terminated and a 
default reported.
Whilst this complaint relates to Arrows actions, Im aware of the circumstances of Mrs Bs 
complaint against N. And whilst I understand weve looked at a related complaint against 
N, in terms of its debt collection activities, it wasnt acting independently  it was acting on 
Arrows behalf. So I think Arrow needed to ensure very clear guidance was given to N to 
ensure Mrs B was aware of the status of her account. And I think Arrow needed to ensure 
its agents had the necessary information to give clear guidance to Mrs B.
Ns final response to Mrs B confirms its agent didnt go over the default letter shed received 
when she agreed the payment arrangement. And Mrs B has told us she thought that 
agreeing a payment arrangement meant the decision to default her account had been 
placed on hold. So whilst I can see Arrow sent a default notice to Mrs B, Im satisfied she 
thought the process had been halted on the basis shed agreed a payment arrangement.
My view is further reinforced by the fact Mrs B made the agreed repayments for five 
months, until she found Arrow had closed and defaulted the credit card account.
The Information Commissioners Offices industry guidance says that if a payment 
arrangement is maintained a default wont normally be registered unless the terms arent 
maintained. And I think thats the fairest approach to follow here. Im satisfied that confusion 
was caused by Arrow that led to Mrs B making payments under a payment arrangement.
Given the amounts involved, I think its more likely than not Mrs B wouldve been able to 
reach an alternative solution to avoid the default if the situation had been made clear to 
her.
I intend to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Arrow to remove the default from her credit 
file. The outstanding balance was around £115 following Mrs Bs payment of £15 in June 
2021. Arrow should allow Mrs B to either continue paying the balance back at £15 a month 
or in full via a single payment. Once repaid, Arrow should take steps to remove the default 
from Mrs Bs credit file.
Im satisfied the issues raised have caused a reasonable level of trouble and upset for Mrs 
B over a sustained period. So I also intend to tell Arrow to pay Mrs B £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any further points they wanted me to consider. We 
didnt hear back from Mrs B. Arrow responded to say Mrs B had already paid the 
outstanding balance, back in April 2022. Arrow also said the default process was correctly 
followed and that it isnt responsible for poor service provided by N. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrows confirmed Mrs Bs outstanding balance was repaid in April 2022. So no repayment 
period is required in terms of settling the debt. 
Arrow says it isnt responsible for poor service provided by N, but my view is the issues 
raised go beyond that. I think Arrow needed to ensure its agents were aware that setting up a repayment plan with Mrs B wouldnt avoid the default, so that information could be given to 
her. I havent seen anything that shows that information was clearly communicated. Im not 
persuaded this is a service issue, especially considering Arrow is enforcing the terms of the 
credit agreement under the relevant regulations. 
I note what Arrow says about the regulations the default was issued under but I havent been 
persuaded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
I remain of the view that Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld for broadly the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Report account as settled and remove the default from Mrs Bs credit file
- Pay Mrs B £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman