DRN-3371926
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about Metro Bank PLCs actions when reviewing and subsequently 
closing their account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O opened an account with Metro in September 2020. Metro carried out a review 
on the account and in January 2021, decided to end their banking relationship with Mr and 
Mrs O. 
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy about:
Metro asking the Police to attend their home while they were isolating during the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
Metro not giving them notice of their account closing or any reason why.
Having to wait over a month for access to their money once the account was closed.
Metro responded to Mr and Mrs Os complaint. They confirmed they closed the account 
under section 11.2 of the accounts terms and conditions and wrote to Mr and Mrs O in 
January 2021 to advise them of their decision. Metro admitted they had caused delays with 
releasing the balance of the account to Mr and Mrs O. They confirmed Mrs O attended a 
branch on 31 March 2021 and asked for a cheque to be given with the balance but due to an 
internal error the cheque wasnt raised until around 21 April 2021 and Mr and Mrs O didnt 
receive it until around 5 May 2021. Metro offered £150 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs O brought their complaint to our service. In the meantime, Metro made our 
service aware of an increase to their offer of compensation  a further £100 to bring the total 
compensation figure to £250.
Our investigator reviewed things. In summary he thought:
There was no evidence that Metro had asked the Police to attend Mr and Mrs Os 
home.
Metro had sent notice to close letters to both Mr and Mrs O on 25 January 2021. Our 
investigator also explained that Metro arent obliged to give a reason for the account 
closure.
There was a delay in sending the cheque to Mr and Mrs O  so in addition to the 
compensation already offered, Metro should pay 8% simple interest to the balance to 
recognise the loss of use of the funds.
Metro didnt agree. They said Mr and Mrs Os account was a non-bearing interest account so 
didnt feel they should pay interest on the amount they held. They confirmed Mr and Mrs O 
could have withdrawn the amount at any time.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree this complaint should be upheld. I think Metro should pay interest on 
the balance they withheld from Mr and Mrs O due to the issues in sending the cheque. Ive 
explained why below.
The Police visit
Im aware Mr and Mrs O are unhappy about the Police visiting their home while they were 
isolating. They also believe Metro breached their privacy as they think they informed the 
Police to instruct the visit. Based on the evidence Ive received; Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Metro did ask the Police to visit Mr and Mrs Os home. While I recognise the close proximity 
of the two events, I cant fairly conclude Metro had any involvement based on the evidence I 
have.
The closure and reasons
Metro, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring 
of relationships they hold with their customers. Metro decided to end their relationship with 
Mr and Mrs O in January 2021, and Im satisfied they sent letters to both Mr and Mrs O to 
inform them of their intention. I appreciate Mr and Mrs O say they didnt receive these letters, 
but Im satisfied they were sent, so I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship, and this can be for a number of reasons. 
I appreciate Metro hasnt told Mr and Mrs O why they made this decision  but theyre not 
obliged to give a reason. Metro can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in 
the terms and conditions of the account. Metro helpfully referred Mr and Mrs O to the 
specific term (11.2) theyd relied on when closing the account. Having reviewed everything, I 
dont think Metro made an unfair decision  and Im satisfied they complied with the terms of 
the account  so I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
The delay in receiving the balance of the account
On 31 March 2021, Mrs O attended a Metro branch and asked for the money which was left 
in the account to be sent to her and Mr O by cheque. Metro agreed with this. Metro have 
confirmed, due to an error, the cheque wasnt raised until around 21 April 2021 and Mr and 
Mrs O say they received it around 5 May 2021.
Putting things right
As Metro have admitted the delay was caused by an error, I consider they should recognise 
the time Mr and Mrs O was without their money and pay 8% simple interest to recognise this 
loss. I appreciate Metro say this wasnt an interest-bearing account, but I dont think thats 
entirely relevant. I say that because by Mr and Mrs O not being able to use this money for 
around five weeks or so, they were deprived of their funds. Our service uses the 8% simple 
interest amount as this also reflects the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts and 
therefore, I consider it to be the fairest in the circumstances.
Metro should pay this amount from the date Mrs O asked for the money to be released  31 
March 2021  up to the date they sent the cheque. Im also aware that Metro have offered a total of £250 compensation. I believe this offer is 
fair and wont ask Metro to increase their offer of settlement for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. If they havent paid this yet to Mr and Mrs O, they should honour the 
offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Metro 
should pay Mr and Mrs O 8% simple interest on the amount which was held in their account. 
They should pay this from 31 March 2021 up to the date they sent the cheque.
HM Revenue & Customs require Metro Bank PLC to withhold income tax from the above-
mentioned interest. Metro should give Mr and Mrs O a certificate showing how much is taken 
off if Mr and Mrs O asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman