DRN-4404052
The complaint
Ms I complains that Revolut Ltd failed to refund a transaction she didnt identify.
What happened
What Ms I has said
Ms I was out shopping and had difficulty with her Revolut account. After spending some time 
logging into it and answering various security questions, she noticed a large payment had 
left her account which she didnt recognise. This payment had been made to a crypto 
currency merchant and nearly emptied her account. The payment was for £2,500.
Ms I asked Revolut to refund this as she didnt make the transaction herself. She said that 
someone had hacked her email and been able to obtain the necessary details to register 
another device on her account which was responsible for stealing the funds. Ms I said that 
based on the timings of the transaction (very early in the morning), she was asleep and in a 
different part of the country to the new device registered to her account. Revolut declined the 
refund, believing shed carried out the payment herself. Ms I complained to Revolut who 
again considered the circumstances but didnt change their position. 
Ms I then brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review where it was assigned to an investigator.
What Revolut have said
Revoluts system restricted the account after an automatic alert was created. Once theyd 
confirmed Ms Is identity, they considered whether they could use the chargeback system to 
challenge the payment, but after reviewing their information and based on what Ms I told 
them, they didnt think it would be successful. 
Ms I had confirmed that she hadnt given her account details to anyone else or lent her 
phone to another person. Revolut didnt think that her account had been compromised. They 
did consider if the payment was the result of a scam, but Ms I said she knew nothing about 
the purchase of crypto currency. Revolut declined to make a refund, believing that Ms I was 
responsible for the payment.
The investigation so far
Both parties were asked to provide evidence and information about the disputed transaction. 
Ms I described how shed noticed emails (from Revolut) in her account that she hadnt 
actioned. She believed that someone had hacked her email and removed the emails from 
her inbox, but theyd failed to fully destroy the emails. She said that shed seen notices 
from Revolut but hadnt acted on them as she often received spam from them.
Ms I denied any knowledge of the disputed transaction and remarked that the payment had 
caused her some distress as shed had to obtain a loan from her employer.
Revolut provided technical information concerning how the payment was made and an audit 
of actions carried out on the account. They explained that there was a new device registered 
to use the account around the time of the disputed transaction and location information 
indicated it was some distance from where Ms I was living at the time. 
But, they said that the crypto currency merchant had requested an additional level of security 
when the payment was made known as 3DS. This meant that a message was sent to the 
primary device registered with Revolut  and that was the one used by Ms I. It wasnt the 
one that was newly registered that morning. That message required the user to open the app 
and confirm the payment was genuine before the crypto merchant would accept the 
payment.
After the investigator reviewed the evidence from both parties, he concluded that it was likely 
that Ms I made the payment herself. It was noted in his report that:
No one else had access to the account apart from Ms I.
Her primary device, which had been registered and used without issue, was 
responsible for confirming the 3DS message.
There was another device, but Revoluts information stated it was registered after the 
disputed transaction had already happened.
Ms I strongly disagreed with the investigators outcome, commenting that:
She was asleep at the time and knew nothing about the transaction.
The automatic restriction on her account (after the disputed transaction had already 
occurred) is evidence the account was compromised.
Ms I recovered emails she believes were evidence of the hacker gaining access to 
Revolut codes used to defraud her and an email account she believes belonged to 
the hacker.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been considered based on the assertion by Ms I that she knew nothing 
about the payment. Essentially shes saying it was unauthorised. Revolut considered if Ms I 
was caught up in a scam which often involves payments to crypto currency merchants. Ms I 
told them this wasnt the case. The relevance of whether the payments were unauthorised or 
a scam is that theyre treated slightly differently when assessing the merits of the situation 
and what wed expect of either party. So here, as Ms I denied any involvement in the 
transaction, its been treated as an unauthorised complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Revolut can hold Ms I liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Revolut can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Ms I authorised the 
transactions, but Revolut cannot say that the use of the card details for an online payment 
conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.  Unless Revolut can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Ms Is account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Ms I. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Ms I responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
Whilst theres evidence of a new device recorded on Revoluts system, that device didnt 
receive the 3DS security message generated by the crypto merchant. Revolut have 
confirmed that only the primary device (here Ms Is own phone) would receive the 3DS 
message. In order to activate that confirmation, it required a log in to the app installed on Ms 
Is device (her mobile phone).
In order to do that, someone had to have access to her physical phone, know the security 
details to access it (biometric/or personal identification number (PIN)), then open the banking 
app and login with another set of security information, before confirming the message to 
authenticate the transaction with the merchant.
Each of those steps requires discreet information known only to Ms I. As shes confirmed no 
one else uses her phone or has access to the information about it or her Revolut account, it 
seems unlikely that an unknown hacker could obtain the entirety of that information. 
Ive also thought about the compromise of her email account. If someone had access to the 
account in order to intercept the messages about the new device logging into it, as Ms I 
stated, why would they then send those details (which werent relevant to the disputed 
transaction) to another email account? They would have all the information they needed at 
the point the account was compromised because they would essentially be in control of it 
and could see the messages from Revolut. Ive not seen anything that would persuade me 
the email account was linked to the disputed transaction.
Overall, there are a number of steps required in order to authenticate the 3DS message sent 
to Ms Is primary device, particularly the requirement to open the app on the device itself. If, 
as Ms I states, she was asleep and had the device with her, it seems unlikely to me that 
someone unknown to her could get hold of the phone, bypass several levels of security on 
the phone and the Revolut app itself, before authenticating the transaction, before returning 
the phone to Ms I at her home.
Based on an objective review of the evidence, I think its more likely than not that Ms I was 
responsible for these transitions or allowing someone else to do them with her knowledge. In 
either case, I think its both fair and reasonable that Revolut held her liable for the disputed 
transaction and I wont be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman