DRN-2719348
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Select Contracts UK Limited (SCUL) mis-sold a package of 
motor insurance products (the package) when he leased a car.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr H leased a car. SCUL sold him the package which included three 
policies: a guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy, a mobile repair policy - covering 
scratches and dents, and an alloy repair policy.
In November 2020 Mr H said he no longer required the car. He asked for a refund of the 
unused portions of his insurance premiums. He also said he thought the package wasn't 
suitable for him. SCUL passed Mr Hs request for a refund to the policies administrator. It 
told Mr H it hadn't misadvised him when it sold the package.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
SCUL had done anything wrong. Mr H didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr H has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything hes said carefully but in this decision I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues following our investigator's assessment of the complaint.
Mr H initially indicated he was interested in the package online in August 2019. SCUL spoke 
with him the next day and explained what the benefits of the policies were. It then emailed 
information about the package to Mr H. On 10 September 2019, when the lease car was 
delivered to Mr H, he spoke with SCUL again to pay for the package. Around nine days later 
Mr H rang SCUL. He noted that he was within the cooling-off period for cancelling the 
policies and asked for some details about their benefits, which SCUL provided. Mr H 
thanked SCUL for its explanation.
So it seems, initially at least, Mr H was happy that the package was suitable for him. But, by 
the time he no longer wanted the car he didn't think that was the case. So Ive thought about 
whether SCUL sold the package fairly. It might help if I explain that when selling the package 
SCUL was required to give Mr H information that was clear, fair and not misleading. It was 
then for Mr H to decide if the policies were suitable for him. And while I can see SCUL 
explained to Mr H what the policies covered and how he might benefit from those, it didn't go 
as far as to advising him to buy them. 
SCUL told Mr H what the GAP policy would cover if his motor insurer deemed his car to be a 
total loss, which was: the difference between his motor insurers pay out for the car and the 
amount outstanding on the finance agreement for it; a £250 contribution towards the motor 
insurers excess charge; and a three month refund of his lease payments. That would 
appear to be a fair summary of the policy benefits. 
Mr H told us the GAP policy wouldn't have been of benefit to him because his motor insurer 
would have covered the total costs if his car was deemed a total loss. If thats the case 
Mr Hs policy must be fairly rare. Thats because the vast majority of motor policies will pay 
the market value of a car if its deemed a total loss. And as a cars market value will drop 
over time, then it's fairly common for that market value to be less than the finance owing on 
the car when deemed a total loss. And had that been the case Mr Hs GAP policy would 
have covered that shortfall, together with a contribution towards the excess and the refund of 
lease payments. Mr H has implied that his motor policy was different and wouldn't only pay 
the cars market value but would cover the full costs owing on the finance. I haven't seen a 
copy of Mr Hs motor policy wording, but its unusual for a motor policy to cover the full costs 
of the finance owing. So I wouldn't have expected SCUL to be aware that Mr H might have 
this sort of policy and to advise him that if he did then the GAP policy might not be 
particularly beneficial for him. Further, Mr H was aware he had a 30 day cooling-off period in 
which he could have cancelled the policies included in the package. And if he felt, because 
of the nature of his motor insurance policy, the GAP policy wasnt suitable for him he could 
have cancelled it. But he didn't do that.
Similarly, Mr H said the alloy policy wasn't suitable because the manufacturer of the car 
would only charge him £36 for each damaged wheel at the end of the lease. In other words if 
he didn't get the wheels repaired it would cost him a maximum of (4 x £36) £144. I've 
listened to the call in which Mr H discussed this point with SCUL shortly after taking the 
policy. During that call SCUL explained the policy was being sold at a discounted price of 
£150. It also told Mr H about the number of times he could claim and the potential value of 
those claims, which was up to £1,000. Mr H identified that he could potentially claim on the 
policy several time and said SCUL was making sense. Mr H added that he could see how 
he could get his moneys worth from it. Having listened to SCULs explanations it's clear 
Mr H felt the policy would be suitable for him. It doesn't appear his circumstances changed 
between the sale of the policy and his returning the car, so its not clear why his opinion 
about its suitability changed. And I understand he made a successful claim on it. So it 
appears the policy was suitable for him and I don't think SCUL did anything wrong in selling 
it to him. 
Also, as I've said above, Mr H knew he was still within the 30 day cooling-off period. So if he 
wasn't satisfied with SCULs explanations he could have cancelled the policy. But he didn't 
do so. And I haven't heard anything SCUL said, either in the initial call about the packages 
benefits or when Mr H queried those later, that was unfair, unclear or misleading. So I don't 
think SCUL mis-sold the policies. 
For completeness Mr H also said the sale was unfair because it was pushed via a strict 
timeline, which didn't give him time to think things through. But SCUL didn't refer to a 
timeline at all in the initial call when it gave Mr H information about the package. And the 
email it sent to him following that call also didn't indicate there was a timeline in which to 
take advantage of the package or its discount. Further, I've seen SCUL initially gave Mr H 
information about the package on 20 August 2019. But Mr H didn't actually take the policies 
until three weeks later, on 10 September 2019. And, as I've said above, he then had a 30 
day cooling-off period in which he could cancel the policies if he didn't think they were 
suitable. So I think Mr H had enough time to think about whether or not he wanted the 
package. It follows that I don't think SCUL acted unfairly when selling it to him. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman