DRN-3674682
Complaint
Miss B is unhappy with what Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) has agreed 
to do to put things right as a result of incorrectly closing her credit card account.
Background
In December 2021, Barclaycard incorrectly placed a deceased marker on Miss Bs credit 
card account. Miss B contacted Barclaycard a few days later as she was no longer able to 
use her card. And as a result of this conversation, the marker was removed from Miss Bs 
account and Miss B was told her card was fine to use. 
However, Miss B wasnt able to carry out transactions on her card and complained in mid-
December 2021. As a result of this complaint, Barclaycard credited Miss Bs account with 
£75 and told her to use a newly issued card for transactions going forward. As I understand 
it, Miss B then believed her account balance had been cleared as compensation for what 
had happened. However, what had actually happened was that a deceased marker was 
reinstated on Miss Bs account, in December 2022, shortly after her complaint. 
Nonetheless, statements were generated in January 2022 and February 2022 and as 
Barclaycard didnt receive payments it started recording missed payments on Miss Bs credit 
file. Miss Bs noticing of these payments prompted a further complaint. Barclaycard realised 
what had happened and reinstated Miss Bs account in July 2022. It also offered Miss B a 
further £25 in compensation. Miss B was dissatisfied with Barclaycards response, queried 
the balance that her account was reopened with and referred her complaint to our service. 
Miss Bs complaint was then considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
reinstated balance on Miss Bs account was correct. However, she also thought that 
Barclaycard needed to remove all of the adverse information it had recorded on Miss Bs 
credit file and also pay Miss B £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Barclaycard agreed with our adjudicators assessment but Miss B disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider her case. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Im satisfied that what Barclaycard has already done 
to put things right is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Ive started by looking at Miss Bs credit card statements and Im satisfied that the reopened 
balance on Miss Bs account is correct. I know that Miss B has said that her balance went up 
by around £1,000.00 since the last statement she saw. However, this is because she made 
around transactions of around £1,800.00 in December 2021 and she only made a payment 
of £800. As Miss Bs spend in December 2021 was around £1,000.00 more than her 
payment this is the reason her balance increased by a corresponding amount and this was 
reflected in her January 2022 statement.
Furthermore, Barclaycard has also now removed all of the late payment markers that it 
recorded on Miss Bs credit file. So Im satisfied that Barclaycard has correctly placed        
Miss Bs account in the position it would be in had it not placed a deceased marker on her 
account and closed it in the first place. And all thats left to decide is whether the further 
£200 Barclaycard has agreed to pay Miss B in compensation for its errors is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
I know that Miss B doesnt believe that £200 is enough compensation. And I do accept that 
Miss B did experience an amount of frustration and annoyance as a result of Barclaycards 
actions. I also understand how and why learning a deceased marker had been recorded on 
the account would have been upsetting and the impact was more than just minimal. 
However, I do think that £200 does adequately reflect the gravity of what has happened  
especially as what prompted Miss Bs concerns the second time was the late payment 
markers. And I cant see that the information Barclaycard recorded directly led to her being 
refused credit. So Im satisfied that while it is unfortunate the same error happened more 
than once, Barclaycards offer of compensation does go far enough here. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that a further £200 is an adequate amount of compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience Miss B experienced here. Although I do appreciate          
Miss B doesnt agree that this is the case  especially as she, albeit incorrectly, assumed 
that the outstanding balance on her account was written off, in December 2021, as 
compensation for the initial marker being placed on her account.
So overall and having considered everything and while I do sympathise with Miss Bs 
position and what happened, I think that what Barclaycard has already done to put things 
right is fair and reasonable. As this is the case, Im not requiring it to do anything more and I 
leave it up to Miss B to decide whether to accept its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Barclays Bank UK Plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman