DRN-3212658
The complaint
Mr P complains that AWP P&C SA unfairly declined his travel insurance claim.
Any reference to AWP also includes its agents.
Im aware Mr P has been represented throughout this complaint by a family member,
however, I will refer only to Mr P for ease.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr P took out a travel insurance policy to cover a four month trip starting
in January 2020.
Mr P departed on his trip but, following the outbreak of Covid-19, all ski resorts and
accommodation were closed by the relevant authorities in March 2020. Mr P had to return
home from his trip earlier than planned and made a claim to AWP for the cost of the unused
proportion of a ski instructor course he was unable to complete.
AWP declined to pay the claim. It said the policy didnt provide cover for the curtailment of a
trip in these circumstances. It said the policy specifically excluded claims as a result of a
pandemic.
Mr P made a complaint to AWP. He said that AWP had put a message on its website which
said it wasnt going to be enforcing the exclusion relating to pandemics and so he didnt think
it was fair for AWP to now not pay the claim. AWP said the wording on the website was only
applicable to certain policies and this didnt include the specific brand of policy Mr P had
taken out.
As Mr P remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service. Before the complaint
was considered by our investigator, Mr P was able to obtain a refund for his unused costs
and so no longer needed to claim for this expense. However, he still wanted to complain
about the wording on the website and what AWP had told him.
Our investigator looked into the matter and found that, under the policy terms, Mr Ps claim
wasnt covered and so she didnt think that AWP was wrong in declining the claim. However,
she felt that it wasnt made sufficiently clear on AWPs website that the removal of the
exclusion wouldnt have applied to Mr Ps cover. She recommended that AWP pay £75
compensation for the poor service.
Mr P agreed with our investigators view, but AWP didnt provide any response. As no
agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
On 23 November 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In it I said the following:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Mr P has now received a refund of his costs
elsewhere so there is no longer a need for a claim. However, in order to consider whether I
think AWP has been fair in its dealings with Mr P, I do need to consider what the policy
terms say and whether AWP has acted reasonably when refusing the claim.
Insurers set out what events they will and wont cover in the terms and conditions of the
policy. They are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for a premium) but
the policy does need to make the position clear to the policyholder. A policy may not cover
every single eventuality.
As explained by our investigator, within the policy terms there is a list of reasons for which
AWP has agreed to provide cover for the curtailment of a trip. Returning home due to a
government directive is not one of the listed reasons for cover. The reason Mr P curtailed his
trip was because the government at his destination closed ski resorts and accommodation.
In addition to this, there is an exclusion which applies to the whole of the policy which states
that no cover applies for any epidemic or pandemic. As the reason for the closure of the
resort was the Covid-19 pandemic, Im persuaded that there is no cover under the policy for
the circumstances of his particular claim. Taking this all into account, Im satisfied that AWP
has acted in a fair and reasonable manner when refusing to pay Mr Ps claim.
Mr P has referred to guidance which appeared on AWPs website on 17 March 2020. It said
the following:
Travel started before 23:59hrs on Thursday 12 March 2020
1. I am already on my trip, am I covered?
If your travel started before 23:59 on Thursday 12th March 2020 we want to make 
sure that you have peace of mind in light of the WHO declaring that Corona Virus is a
pandemic. We will not be enforcing the epidemic and pandemic exclusion and you 
will be covered as per the usual terms of your travel insurance policy. This would 
include you following all FCO advice. Should you need to make a claim, please 
contact us directly to discuss your options.
It was as a result of this guidance that Mr P says he made his claim and he doesnt think it is
right that AWP refused to pay. He says he has been put to great inconvenience by having to
try to recover the money elsewhere. AWP referred to a statement at the top of the page of
guidance which detailed that the information on this page only related to the policies
available via that website. The statement goes on to say that for all other policies the policy 
holder should refer to the individual policy wording for details of the customer service contact
details. Im satisfied that AWP made it clear who the relevant advice was intended for.
Mr P says it is unfair for AWP to not treat all of its policy holders in the same way. Ive
thought about this very carefully and I can understand Mr Ps point of view. However, as I
mentioned previously, it is down to the insurer to decide what it does and doesnt wish to
cover as long as this is made clear in the policy terms and conditions. And it is those terms
which Mr P agreed to when he purchased the policy  any guidance on the website wouldnt
be considered as a change in those contract terms. And whilst I appreciate Mr P may have
expected AWP to remove the exclusion against all the policies it insures, it is not a
requirement for it do to so. Im not persuaded that AWP has acted unreasonably by not
waiving the exclusion relating to pandemics on Mr Ps policy.
Our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for AWP to pay Mr P compensation
but I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask AWP to do
this.
Travel insurance policies commonly only cover costs which are not recoverable from
elsewhere. So, even if Mr P had held a policy which did cover the circumstances he foundhimself in, hed have needed to make reasonable attempts to recover his money from the
provider before Id expect an insurer to accept his claim.
On this basis, Im not of the opinion that AWP has acted unreasonably when handling the
claim and I therefore dont require it to do anything further.
AWP didnt respond to the provisional decision, but Mr P did. He said that AWP has not 
acted fairly across all its policy holders. He questioned why it differentiated a policy acquired 
through an agent. He said this was inequitable. And he also stated that he obtained his 
refund through his credit card provider which he believes should be a claim of last resort and 
that this is irrelevant as to whether AWP has acted fairly or not in his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about the points Mr P has made in response to my provisional decision and, 
whilst I appreciate his comments, these dont persuade me to alter my outcome. As I pointed 
out in my provisional decision, AWP can decide what it does and doesnt want to wish to 
cover and it is under no obligation to provide the same level of cover under all of the policies 
it insures. It was made clear on the website that the advice regarding the removal of the 
exclusion was intended for only certain types of policy it insured. It is therefore reasonable 
for AWP to make the decision not to waive this exclusion on the policy Mr P took out. 
Mr P believes the claim he made to his credit card provider to obtain a refund of the unused 
costs should have only been used as a last resort and the fact he used a credit card is 
irrelevant when deciding whether AWP has acted fairly. As I mentioned above, I think it is 
fair for AWP to decide not to waive the exclusion for policies such as the one Mr P bought - 
regardless of the method he used to pay for the ski instructor course. But it is important to 
note that the policy only covers costs which cannot be refunded elsewhere and so, even if 
the exclusion relating to pandemics didnt apply, I would still have expected Mr P to try to 
recover his losses elsewhere before I could fairly ask AWP to accept his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman