DRN-3013615
The complaint
Ms W complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Mr Lender, here is a brief table of the approved loans.
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 02/06/2018 14/09/2018 3 £290.00 £191.78
2 14/09/2018 15/11/2018 6 £500.00 £207.33
3 23/11/2018 outstanding 12 £1,000.00 £215.17
One of our adjudicators had information from Ms W which led him to make further enquires 
about some transactions and having looked at the complaint he thought that Mr Lender 
ought not to have given Ms W loan 3. 
Mr Lender disagreed as its view is that a full financial review was not warranted for the third 
loan. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms W could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ws complaint.
Ms W has not commented on the outcome outlined by our adjudicator but she has not 
disagreed with it. From that I gather that loans 1 and 2 are undisputed. So, I have reviewed 
loan 3 only.
Mr Lenders opinion is that 
we do not understand the relevance of the 12 months loan period as reasoning as 
a trigger on her third loan.
[Ms W] wanted to borrow £1,000 and we had to make sure she could afford the 
monthly repayments, which at 12 months was deemed affordable. If she opted to 
borrow this amount for say 6 months, then the repayments would have been double 
and potentially unaffordable based on our affordability assessments.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan 3 would most likely have shown 
that Ms W was having serious problems managing her money. He felt that a full financial 
review was necessary at loan 3 and its this element I considered carefully. The information from Mr Lender to defend the complaint is, in my view, brief in relation to the 
credit file search it provides as part of that file. The table below duplicates the information 
Mr Lender has given to us and these income and expenditure (I&E) figures are the same for 
each loan  original emphasis retained. 
ET Income £2,995.00
Mortgage / Rent £570.00
Electricity / Gas / Water £100.00
Food / Travel £150.00
Telecommunications £125.00
Council Tax £108.00
Loans (Inc short term) £950.00
Other regular outgoings £150.00
Total Expenditure (£) £2,153.00
Disposable Income (£) £842.00
Ms W declared £950 for Loans (inc short term) each time she applied, returning for a third 
loan within 7 days of repaying loan 2 and within six months of taking her first loan. Loan 3 
was four times the amount of loan 1, and in my view these elements ought to have alerted 
Mr Lender to the need to make more enquiries.
Mr Lender says that it did by asking her what the loans were for and carrying out a credit 
search. The credit search information Mr Lender sends to us are always brief and despite 
Ms W having declared £950 on other loan (of all kinds) commitments, this does not appear 
to have been researched. And its results box produced for us indicates that she had no 
outstanding AAIs which is shorthand for advances against income which are payday loans.  
It appears from this results box  that all other criteria Mr Lender searched against were 
satisfactory. But its not a complete picture, not least because there are other kinds of high 
cost credit as well as AAIs and the picture Mr Lender had does not appear to have 
considered those. 
Mr Lender says There was no indication that the repayments on the prior loan had been 
unsustainable or that [Ms W] was facing financial difficulty with meeting them.
I have thought about this carefully but the amount being asked for on loan 3, the fact that her 
indebtedness was going to be extended for a further 12 months, the fact that she had 
declared £950 a month and yet still needed more credit all pointed to Mr Lender needing to 
make additional enquiries. And I dont think that a brief credit search just to see if she had 
other AAIs or asking her what she needed the loan for was enough. A full financial review would have been the proportionate check I would have expected for 
loan 3 in Ms Ws circumstances using the information Mr Lender has told us is had at the 
time she applied for loan 3.  
Even on its own explanation to us, Mr Lender has said that the length of the term -12 months 
as opposed to 6 months  for the £1,000 loan likely made the difference to it being 
affordable for Ms W. This indicates to me that stretching her indebtedness for an additional 
12 months was a solution of some sort to make it affordable whereas this loan over a shorter 
period may not have been. As I have said earlier, just doing the pounds and pence 
calculation is not always whats needed.  
Once Loan 3 was in place, her total repayments to Mr Lender and other lenders (on this 
information it had) was going to be £950 plus £215 for the loan 3 repayments which added 
up to £1,165 each month. That was a large proportion of her declared net income of £2,995 
 about 38% - and on the information it had at the time that could have been the situation for 
the whole 12 month period. And Mr Lender had enough information to know this at the time 
she applied. So, I do think additional checks would have been proportionate.  
Mr Lender couldve verified her expenditure several ways, and one way was to have 
reviewed copies of her bank statements or it couldve asked to see copies of bills, rent 
agreement or any other documentary evidence that it felt it needed to see. 
Im satisfied that Mr Lender didnt do a proportionate check, but for me to be able to uphold 
Ms Ws complaint about loan 3, I would have to be satisfied not only that it didnt carry out a 
proportionate check, but had it done so, it wouldve likely discovered that Ms W couldnt 
afford the repayments she was committed to repaying. And I think its highly likely Mr Lender 
would have found out more details about the borrowing from other lenders including friends 
and family, to meet obligations. I saw this from bank statements I have reviewed sent to us 
by Ms W and I asked her to clarify some elements of what I had seen. 
These bank statements have shown me that Ms W had a lot of other debt to repay. 
I appreciate that she had declared the monthly £950 commitments but I can also see that 
Ms W had a gambling issue too. My view is that this would have been apparent to Mr Lender 
had it looked at the statements leading up to her loan 3 application. 
In the bank statements supplied, between 25 August 2018 and 24 September 2018, Ms W 
spent over £700 on multiple online gambling sites. Between 25 September 2018 and 
24 October 2018, Ms W spent over £2,000 on multiple online gambling sites, this was over 
66% of her income of £2,995. And between 25 November 2018 and 10 November 2018, 
Ms W spent over £3,000 on multiple online gambling sites, this was over 100% of her 
income of £2,995 and well over her disposable income of around £627.
In the circumstances, I disagree with Mr Lender  I think that it had enough information to be 
prompted to make some additional checks and if it had it would have discovered these 
details relatively easily. So, I uphold Ms Ws complaint about loan 3 for both sets of reasons 
- the high commitment to other lenders together with the gambling.   
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr L should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms W at loan 3 as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms W may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed between them and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a 
viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Ms W in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender ought not to have approved loan 3 for Ms W. 
If Mr Lender have sold the outstanding debt Mr Lender should buy it back if it can and then 
take the following steps. If Mr Lender are not able to buy the debt back then Mr Lender 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms W towards interest, 
fees and charges on loan 3 without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Mr Lender have already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms W as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms W having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal Mr Lender 
may have already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to 
Ms W. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Ms W. Mr Lender shouldnt pursue outstanding balances 
made up of principal Mr Lender may have already written-off.
E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Ms W credit file in 
relation to loan 3.
 *HMRC requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. If Ms W asks Mr Lender for a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, Mr Lender should provide this. If Mr Lender intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Ms W owes, it must do this after 
tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint in part and I direct that PDL Finance 
Limited, trading as Mr Lender, does as I have outlined above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman