DRN-3175948
The complaint
Miss E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when 
it increase the credit limit on her credit card.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Miss E applied for a Barclaycard in 2015. In her application, Miss E said she was employed 
earning £20,500 and a tenant. Barclaycard recorded Miss Es monthly income as £1,407 
and calculated regular living costs of £574 and rent of £390. Barclaycards application 
recorded that Miss E had around £400 of disposable income each month and approved a 
credit limit of £260.
Barclaycard increased the credit limit to £1,760 in April 2016, £5,300 in January 2017 and
£6,800 in July 2018. Barclaycard says it looked at the information on Miss Es credit file and 
applied its lending criteria each time. Miss E has explained she wasnt able to maintain her 
payments and the account entered arrears towards the end of 2018.
In October 2020 Barclaycard wrote to Miss E and said it had set her credit limit higher than 
it shouldve been and refunded £25 of interest. Barclaycard also offered Miss E £75 to 
apologise. Miss E went on to raise a complaint that Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly 
when it increased her credit limit.
Barclaycard didnt offer to issue and further refunds and Miss E referred her complaint to 
this service. An investigator upheld Miss Es complaint and said they thought Barclaycard 
had lent irresponsibly when it increased her credit limit to £6,800 in July 2018. Barclaycard 
didnt agree so Miss Es complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a 
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this 
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the 
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should 
take into account various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs to the borrower 
each month, credit history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the relationship 
between lender and borrower progresses, the business may need to consider carrying out 
more comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a 
sustainable way.
In this case, I agree with Barclaycard that it did carry out proportionate checks when it 
initially approved Miss Es credit card with a limit of £260 and when it later increase the 
credit limit to £1,760. At this stage, Miss Es disposable income was calculated to be 
around £400 a month which meant she couldve repaid the outstanding balance in full 
without undue difficulty in a reasonable amount of time. I note Miss Es credit file didnt 
show lots of other outstanding debt at this point and Im satisfied Barclaycard lent 
responsibly.
The investigator thought Barclaycards decision to approve the credit limit increase to 
£5,300 was reasonable but I disagree. I think there were signs Miss E was becoming 
dependent on credit to make ends meet. I also think that whilst the checks Barclaycard 
carried out when it approved the credit card and later increased the credit limit to £1,760 
were proportionate, it shouldve considered completing more comprehensive checks 
before deciding whether to substantially increase the credit limit to £5,300.
Ive looked at the six month period before Barclaycard increased the credit limit from 
£1,760 to £5,300. In July 2016, Miss E owed around £630 against a credit limit of £1,760. 
However, in the months that followed, Miss Es account was generally close to or over the 
agreed credit limit. I note Miss E incurred an over limit fee in August 2016. I can see Miss 
E did make payments that were above the minimum, but the lowest point the account 
balance reached was around £1,360 in September 2016. And the balance then crept back 
up towards the maximum allowed.
I also think its reasonable to note that Barclaycard substantially increased the credit limit by
£3,540 in one go. Thats around three times the exiting credit limit and over 20 times the 
original credit limit. Despite the scale of the increase, Barclaycard relied on the same 
information about Miss Es circumstances it obtained during her original application. Im not 
persuaded Barclaycard completed proportionate checks when it increased Miss Es credit 
limit to £5,300 in January 2017.
Had Barclaycard carried out more comprehensive checks and sought a greater level of 
information about Miss Es circumstances I think it wouldve found she had become 
increasingly reliant on credit. I note Miss E took out a new loan in the period between the 
credit limit increase from £1,760 to £5,300 and that, after July 2016, the overall outstanding 
balance didnt meaningfully reduce and only went up with the following credit limit 
increases. Had Barclaycard completed proportionate checks I dont think it wouldve 
approved the credit limit increase to £5,300 in January 2017. In my view, Barclaycard lent 
irresponsibly.
If follows that if I think Barclaycard lent irresponsibly in January 2017, I also think its 
decision to increase the credit limit further to £6,800 in July 2018 was irresponsible. Again, 
Barclaycard hadnt revisited the application information it recorded from Miss E, despite it 
being several years old at this time. Barclaycards affordability data provided an estimated 
total cost of living figure of around £1,200 against a recorded monthly income figure of 
about £1,400 a month. So Miss Es disposable income figure had reduced further to about 
£200 at this stage according to Barclaycards figures.
I dont agree that a disposable income figure of £200 would be sufficient to maintain and 
repay a credit card debt of £6,800 as well as cover any unforeseen expenses that mayve 
come up. I also note that Miss Es credit card statements show she was generally making
the minimum payments during the period in question. Again, given the level of borrowing 
now being offered I think Barclaycard ought to have carried out better checks. And, had it
done so, I dont think Barclaycard wouldve proceeded.
I dont think its fair for Barclaycard to record adverse information on Miss Es credit file in 
relation to balances that were lent irresponsibly. So I intend to tell Barclaycard to amend 
Miss Es credit file and remove all adverse information reported in relation to balances over£1,760 from January 2017 onwards.
I note Barclaycard has offered to pay Miss E £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
and I think thats fair.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments and information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Miss E responded and confirmed she 
accepted the provisional decision. 
Barclaycard responded and provided affordability and credit file information that was 
originally sent to the investigator. Barclaycard said it used information from credit reference 
agencies along with financial modelling that it says is approved by the regulator to get a 
picture of her income and outgoings. Barclaycard also said the information it obtained didnt 
show Miss E had any other credit card debt and that her loan repayments were affordable. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard included its credit file and affordability data in its response to my provisional 
decision. But that information was sent to the investigator before they issued their findings. 
And I relied on the data and credit file information Barclaycard sent when reaching my 
provisional decision. So Ive already considered the information in question. 
Ive looked over the credit file and affordability information again and I still think Barclaycard 
lent irresponsibly. Whilst I appreciate Barclaycard uses financial modelling, its still required 
to complete proportionate checks to ensure repayments are sustainable for its borrower. My 
provisional decision sets out in detail why I think the checks Barclaycard completed were 
insufficient in Miss Es case and that, if it had carried out more comprehensive checks, it 
wouldnt have proceeded. I still think Barclaycard lent irresponsibly when it approved the 
credit limit increases to £5,300 in January 2017, for the same reasons.    
Putting things right
To resolve Miss Es complaint, I direct Barclaycard to settle as follows: 
Rework Miss Es credit card balance so all interest, fees and charges applied from 
January 2017 on balances over £1,760 are removed
If an outstanding balance remains once the adjustments have been made, 
Barclaycard should contact Miss E to arrange a suitable repayment plan
If the effect of refunding interest, fees and charges results in a credit balance, the 
extra should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Miss E along with 8% 
interest until the date of settlement
Barclaycard should amend Miss Es credit file to remove all adverse information 
reported about balances over £1,760 from January 2017 onwards
If Barclaycard has sold the debt to another party, it may need to consider taking 
additional steps to ensure the proposed settlement can be put in place  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to settle in line with the above guidance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman