DRN-3237003
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out two timeshare agreements with Business S in 2007. One was dated 4 
June and one dated 16 June. Both agreements were in the joint names of Mr and Mrs H. 
Mrs H funded the purchase of the first agreement with a loan with BPF. Mr H took out a loan 
with BPF, in his name only, and it covered the purchase made on 16 June 2007. Even 
though the timeshare agreements were bought in both names, this decision deals only with 
the loan taken out in Mr Hs sole name, so it is him bringing this complaint. Mrs Hs 
complaint about the loan taken out in her name has been dealt with separately. 
In 2021, Mr H found out that Business S had gone into administration, which meant he 
thought he was unable to use the membership in the way intended. So he made a claim 
under the CCA to BPF, saying that it could be held jointly responsible for what had gone 
wrong. BPF didnt respond to Mr Hs claim, so our service considered whether BPF should 
gave accepted the claim.
One of our investigators didnt think BPF needed to do anything further. They noted that as 
Mr H had not paid anything toward the timeshare membership for several years, he wasnt 
entitled to use its resorts. That meant he hadnt lost out when Business S went into 
administration. Mr H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In November 2011 an ombudsman at this service issued a decision dealing with a complaint 
brought by Mr and Mrs H about the timeshares they had with Business S that were financed 
by BPF. The ombudsman considered whether Mr H had been misled about the timeshare 
membership when it was taken out and whether BPF had done the right checks to make 
sure the loan was affordable for him. The ombudsman didnt think the evidence suggested 
that the complaint should have been upheld. As an ombudsman has already considered 
these issues, I will not consider them again.
Mr H has relied on s.75 CCA in his claim against BFP. That provision reads:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) 
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and 
severally liable to the debtor.
It is not in dispute that Mr Hs agreement with BPF is one to which s.75 CCA could apply. So 
I have considered whether there is any breach of contract claim for which Business S could 
be responsible and, therefore, BPF be held jointly liable. But before I have considered that, I 
have also considered whether the timeshare agreement funded by Mr Hs BPF loan was 
rescinded following a Spanish court judgment.
Mr and Mrs H took Business S to court in Spain arguing that the timeshare agreements were 
illegal under Spanish law and should never have be sold. I have seen a document dated 4 
January 2018 that appears to be a legal argument from Mr Hs Spanish lawyers explaining 
why they feel Business S timeshare agreements are voidable. This document refers to 
timeshare agreements taken out by Mr and Mrs H that were funded by BPF loans, but no 
more details were given to identify the precise agreements referred to, for example by the 
date of the agreement. But I have taken it to refer to two agreements entered into in 2007 as 
they were both funded by BPF loans.
I have seen a copy of the judgment from February 2019, a translation of the conclusion of 
which reads:
That granting in part the complaint files by [Mr and Mrs H]against [Business 
S]and as a result:
i. DECLARE NULL and void the contract dated 04/06/2007 and the defendant 
must pay GBP 22,475.40 to the plaintiff.
The plaintiff shall restore, for his part, the rights of use or holiday products 
acquired under this contract.
ii.Order for costs is not appropriate.
Therefore, the Spanish judgment seems to have had the effect of rescinding the timeshare 
contract and restoring the parties (Mr & Mrs H and Business S) to their pre-contractual 
positions; this appears to be consistent with the statement from Mrs Hs Spanish lawyer, who 
advises that it means the contracts should never have existed in the first place.
But I have seen that this judgment relates to the contract entered into on 4 June 2007 and I 
cant see that there is any mention of the agreement funded by Mr Hs loan that was entered 
into on 16 June 2007. So although it is possible that the timeshare agreement dated 16 June 
2007 is voidable under Spanish law for similar reasons to the earlier one, there was no 
declaration on that agreement by the Spanish court. We have asked Mr H to provide evidence that the contract his loan was used to fund was declared void, but he has not been 
able to produce any judgment showing that. It follows that I dont think the 16 June 2007 
agreement has been rescinded in the way the 4 June agreement has been. So I dont think 
there was any way to directly rescind the related BPF credit agreement due to the rescission 
of the supply agreement.
I have thought about the potential breach of contract when Business S went into 
administration. Some of the resorts operated by Business S continued to be available to its 
members as they had before, but one of the resorts was not. And Mr H had access to this 
resort under the timeshare agreement funded by his BPF loan, so it is possible BPF could be 
held jointly liable for a breach of contract if Mr and Mrs H were entitled to stay at this resort, 
but were not able to do so. So Ive thought about the status of their membership at the time 
of the administration.
Mr H has told us that he stopped repaying the BPF loan in 2010 and shortly after stopped 
paying maintenance fees to Business S. This was because he had taken advice from a 
lawyer that there were problems with the agreement taken out with Business S. He said that 
Business S never chased him for payment of the outstanding fees. As I understand it, under 
the timeshare agreement Mr and Mrs H had to pay maintenance fees and if they didnt, they 
were not entitled to use their timeshare agreement. It follows that I dont think they were able 
to use their timeshares after 2011.
It is uncertain whether Mr and Mrs Hs agreement was ended in or around 2011 by Business 
S when they stopped paying maintenance fees or whether it was suspended at that time and 
able to be resurrected at a later date if some fees were paid. But Mr H has made clear to our 
service that he had no desire to start up the membership again, so I dont think he had any 
intention of using Business S resorts after 2011.
If Mr and Mrs Hs agreement had already come to an end by the date of the administration in 
2020, there was no longer a contract in force to be breached. Alternatively, if the agreement 
was suspended, I dont think Mr and Mrs H had any intention of using it again, so even if 
there was a breach of contract I dont think they would have lost out or been entitled to any 
damages for the breach. So in either scenario, I dont think BPF needs to do anything further 
to settle this claim.
Mr H has raised other concerns about the timeshare agreement, for example that it was sold 
as an investment. But as these concerns were already dealt with in the ombudsmans 
decision of November 2011, I will not comment on them further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman