DRN-3140182
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Arval UK Limited trading as Honda Contract Hire delayed in asking 
her to pay an excess mileage charge.
What happened
On 14 March 2018, Miss H was supplied with a new car through a hire agreement with Arval. 
She paid an advance payment of £2,400, and the agreement was for 24 monthly hire 
payments of £52.25. The agreement allowed for a maximum of 16,000 miles over the term 
and said Miss H would be charged 4.56 pence for every mile that exceeded this amount.
Miss H arranged to return the car at the end of the agreement, and she says that it shouldve 
been collected on 5 March 2020. But, because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the 
car wasnt collected until 8 July 2020. At the time of collection, the car had done 25,975 
miles  9,975 more that the agreement allowed.
Arval charged Miss H £440.45 for exceeding the mileage allowable under the agreement. 
Miss H says that Arval didnt invoice her until 29 April 2021  nine months after the car was 
collected. She complained to Arval, but they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. Miss H 
was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the agreement allowed Arval to charge for excess mileage, and 
she didnt think theyd done anything wrong by doing so. She said shed seen an invoice 
dated 13 July 2020, where Arval asked Miss H to pay the excess mileage charge. 
The investigator also said that, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Arval decided not to 
chase their customers for any outstanding payments until April 2021. And she didnt think 
that theyd done anything wrong by making this decision, as theyd already advised Miss H 
of how much she owed. So, she thought Arval had acted reasonably in the circumstances, 
and she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
The investigator also said that Miss H has raised the issue of the delay in collecting the car 
in 2020. But, as Miss H hadnt complained to Arval about this, the investigator explained that 
this wasnt something we were able to look at.
Miss H didnt agree with the investigator. She said she couldnt remember being invoiced for 
the excess mileage in July 2020. And she didnt think theyd acted fairly by choosing not to 
chase her until April 2021, because she hadnt been consulted in this decision. She 
explained that her financial situation had changed, so she was no longer able to pay this 
charge, but she wouldve been able to pay it in 2020.
Because Miss H didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss H was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the Vehicle Order Form, signed by Miss H on 14 March 2018. This 
confirmed the Contract Term was 24 Months / 16,000 miles, and that Miss H would be 
charged 4.56 Pence per Excess Mile. And the agreement, also signed by Miss H on 14 
March 2018, said an excess mileage charge of 4.56 pence for each mile travelled by the 
Vehicle in excess of the Contract Mileage of 16,000 miles  during the Contract Term is 
also payable by the Hirer.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Miss H would have been reasonably aware of the total 
mileage she was allowed to do under the contract, and how she would be charged if she 
exceeded this mileage.
Ive also seen a copy of the Vehicle Inspection Report that was completed when the car was 
collected. This confirms that the collection mileage was 25,975 miles. This inspection report 
wasnt signed by Miss H and, instead of the signature, says CV 19. Given the government 
social distancing requirements in place when the car was collected, because of the Covid-19 
pandemic, I dont think that the collection agent did anything wrong by not asking Miss H to 
sign this paperwork. But it doesnt mean that the information on this report is wrong. And I 
havent seen anything, for example a photograph of the odometer taken on the day of 
collection, to show me that the mileage on the report was incorrect.
As such, Im satisfied Miss H had exceeded the mileage allowable under the agreement by 
9,975 miles. And, because of the national lockdown in place at the time, I consider it highly 
unlikely that Miss H travelled almost 10,000 miles between March and early July 2020. So, 
Im also satisfied that Arval acted reasonably by charging Miss H for this excess mileage. 
Ive seen Arval invoiced Miss H £440.32 for the excess mileage on 13 July 2020, telling her 
that this would be collected by direct debit on 11 August 2020. The excess mileage charge 
equates to 9,656 miles  319 miles less than the excess thatd actually been done. The 
direct debit collection failed, presumably as there was insufficient money in Miss Hs account 
at the time. And Arval made a business decision not to chase for this until April 2021.
Miss H doesnt believe its fair that Arval waited so long before chasing. But Arval have said 
that this was a business decision made because of the impact on customers of the Covid-19 
pandemic. It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide what policies 
financial business should have in place. This is a decision Arval can make in line with its 
regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority. For this reason, I wont comment further on this.
So, for the reasons stated above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Miss H, Im satisfied that Arval acted fairly and reasonably given the circumstances. And I 
wont be asking them to reduce or waive the outstanding charges.
My final decisionFor the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint about Arval UK Limited trading 
as Honda Contract Hire.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman