DRN-2160298
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is about a claim they made under their Tesco Underwriting 
Limited home insurance policy. They are unhappy that their claim for storm damage to their 
roof wasnt accepted.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Cs roof suffered damage during a storm in early 2020. They made a claim for 
the damage to Tesco.
Tesco arranged for the roof to be inspected. It was identified that there were a number of 
fallen or dislodged hip tiles to the left-hand side of the front elevation. It was observed that 
the hip tiles didnt appear to have pointing between them, which was put down to wear and 
tear over time. It was concluded the dominant cause of the movement in the tiles was the 
lack of cement holding them in place. It was also noted that the hip on the opposite side of 
the front of the roof and the ridge, had either been replaced or re-laid and pointed, which the 
inspector took to indicate that previous wear and tear repairs had been needed. 
Tesco declined the claim as it wasnt satisfied the dominant cause of the damage to the roof 
had been the bad weather. Rather it considered the roof had been suffering from wear and 
tear and the bad weather had simple highlighted an existing problem.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the rejection of their claim. They said the conclusions reached 
about the roof suffering from wear and tear was wrong and based on a misunderstanding of 
how roof tiles were laid in the 1930s. They said ridge tiles at that time were installed on a 
bed of mortar and there wouldnt have been pointing between the tiles. So the roof wasnt 
damaged because it was suffering from wear and tear. They also said that the comments 
about repairs having been done to the other side of the roof was wrong. They confirmed the 
ridge and hip tiles had been replaced because they had an extension built, which involved 
extending the roof line, not because there were problems with the roof.
Tesco didnt change its decision about the claim and Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint 
to this service. Mr and Mrs C provided us with a copy of parts of their pre-purchase survey 
from 2010, which they explained said the roof was adequate subject to periodic repair, 
although there was note of vegetation growing from the chimney stack. When they had an 
extension to the house built in 2018, the builder was also contracted to complete any 
necessary repairs to the main roof. They provided photographs of the roof before the 
extension was built and afterwards. It was highlighted that the righthand hip and the ridge 
that had been noted on in Tescos report had been built new as part of the extension works.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She was satisfied the tiles had fallen or become dislodged because Mr and Mrs C hadnt 
maintained the roof adequately.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators conclusion. They said they believed they had 
followed the recommendations made in their pre-purchase survey and the roof had been 
adequately repaired. They asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Cs further comments, but wasnt persuaded to 
change her view that the complaint shouldnt succeed. She remained satisfied the dominant 
cause of the damage to the roof was not the storm. As such, the complaint has been passed 
to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute whether there was a storm at the time of the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs 
roof. Nor is it questioned that storms can dislodge tiles from a roof. What I need to determine 
in this case is whether the storm was the dominant cause of the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs 
roof.
Tescos experts have said the tiles on the hip of the roof fell and became dislodged because 
the pointing between and around them had eroded. This would have allowed the bond with 
the underlying cement bed to become compromised and allowed access to the wind to lift 
the tiles. Having looked at the photographs of the damage, it is clear that the pointing 
between the tiles has eroded to the point where there was almost none left. 
I note Mr C has said there wouldnt have been pointing between the tiles in 1933 when the 
roof was built, however, I believe Mr C may have been misinformed on this issue. It was 
standard practice to point ridge and hip tiles at the time his roof was originally built, which is 
evidenced by the fact there are gaps between the tiles for pointing. The purpose of ridge and 
hip tiles is to cover the join between roof elevations - to stop wind getting in the gap and 
damaging the roof and to make the junctions watertight. If gaps were left between the hip 
tiles in such a situation it would mean the hip wouldnt be watertight and it would be more 
vulnerable to damage and weathering. Had there been no intention of pointing between the 
tiles, they would have been installed butting against each other.
I have noted all that Mr and Mrs C have said about their roof, including reference to the 
pre-purchase survey and the building work they had done. However, the photographic 
evidence is clear that the hip that was damaged during the storm was very much in need of 
maintenance. On that basis, I am satisfied the dominant cause of the damage wasnt the 
storm; rather, as Tesco has said, the storm highlighted an existing problem. As such, I cant 
find that Tesco was wrong in declining Mr and Mrs Cs claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 January 2021.
 Derry Baxter
Ombudsman