DRN-2710039
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M (also referred to in this decision as the complainants) say an adviser from 
a firm (Financial Solutions (NE) Ltd) that was an appointed representative of Openwork 
Limited (OL) concealed and/or misrepresented fees and charges that were deducted from 
their investments.
What happened
The complainants described the background of their engagement with the adviser, and of 
their complaint, mainly as follows:
Their adviser-client relationship with him resulted from a previous event in which he 
assisted them in arranging a mortgage. Thereafter their relationship grew, it extended 
to financial advice and they developed trust and confidence in him. Mr M particularly 
appreciated the advisers approach of simplifying his advice. Their positive 
experiences of his service even led them to recommend him to their family members 
and to their business partners.
They met him in November 2017 for a meeting at his office where they discussed 
their pension arrangements and their wider investments. Following on from this 
meeting and based on his advice at the meeting, and his advice between 2017 and 
2019, they implemented a number of pensions, Individual Savings Account (ISA) 
and General Investment Account (GIA) investments  between 2017 and 2019. 
As capital became available for these investments they followed broadly the same 
routine of notifying the adviser, arranging meetings with him, attending the meetings 
(at which pre-prepared documents and agreements were presented for their 
signatures), signing the pre-prepared documents/agreement without reading them 
and without the adviser explaining them and leaving the meetings without copies of 
the documents/agreements. He would send encrypted emails after the meetings but, 
as he knew, they had some difficulty in opening them, the emails were not opened 
and they simply relied on their trust and confidence in the adviser. 
[Mr M provided this service with a statement summarising how the different 
investments and policies were either made or transferred on the advisers advice, 
and through the advisers service.]
The adviser never spoke about his charges, never gave them documentation about 
his charges and never gave them illustrations about his charges. They were not 
nave enough to think he was working free-of-charge, but they assumed his 
commission would be around the common 1% rate in addition to the relevant fund 
fees.
From around November 2018 onwards Mr M began to explore, for the first time, the 
investment platform/website for the Zurich portfolio into which their investments had 
gone. Thereafter, and with his sons help, he became familiar with the platform. He 
says he then discovered deducted fees of £2,120 (each, for Mr M and for Mrs M) for 
initial advice paid to the adviser, a 5% charge (on all investments and of each 
investment value) taken by the adviser plus ongoing commission taken monthly by 
the adviser from his pension investment. He says this was a grave shock to him. 
When the adviser was challenged, he claimed that the fees/charges were agreed 
(and referred to fee agreements they had signed), were at common rates in the 
industry, were for the ongoing service he provided to them and were required to 
cover the costs of his service. They deny any of this was ever discussed or agreed 
with him and deny that any notice was ever given to them about the nature of the 
documents they signed and/or about them signing fee agreements.
They expressed to the adviser their total loss of trust in him. He offered to discount 
the 5% charge to 3.5% but they declined. They then transferred (out), in 2019, their 
pensions and investments arrangements and were promised by the adviser that this 
would happen without charges or penalties. Thereafter, they learnt that further 
charges had been applied prior to the transfer  these being outstanding ongoing 
remuneration charges. They complained to OL but it rejected their complaint.
OL disputes the complaint. It says whilst it cannot comment on what was or was not said in 
the meetings the complainants had with the adviser, it is entitled to take a view on the 
complaint based on documentary evidence; and in this respect it looked into documents 
related to the advisers work in transferring Mr Ms pensions to the Zurich platform, 
facilitating associated top-ups and contributions, setting up the ISA and GIA, and facilitating 
a transfer between both. 
OL says there is documentation on the suitability report issued in 2017 which referred to 
fees; documentation on the three fee agreements Mr M signed on 9 November 2017 (and 
one signed by Mrs M on the same date), 8 January 2018 and 21 November 2018 which all 
justify the fees/charges that he disputes; and documentation on the Zurich Adviser 
Remuneration Declaration (which confirmed the ongoing adviser remuneration of 1% for 
each platform account  applicable to the respective Retirement, GIA and ISA platform 
accounts) he was given at the outset. OL also questions what it considers to be conflict 
between Mr Ms claim that fees were not discussed with the adviser and his claim that he 
believed a commission rate of 1% would apply; and it notes that the 1% commission rate is 
indeed what applied to him per platform account, so Mr Ms claims suggests that fees were 
discussed with the adviser.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and verified the precise fees/charges in 
dispute against records she sought and obtained from OL. Overall, she referred to broadly 
the same evidence OL referred to and concluded that the disputed (and recorded) 
fees/charges were all justified by the complainants express/signed agreements to them. She 
also noted the reference to fees in the suitability report they were given. She acknowledged 
the complainants explanation about not reading paperwork that they signed because they 
trusted the adviser, but she considered that it nevertheless remained their responsibility to 
ensure they were aware of what they were signing.
Mr M objected to this outcome and said there is a Zurich document he and Mrs M consider 
they had not seen or signed. He also suggested that the truth in his account of events can 
be inferred from their termination of the advisers service due to his breach of their trust. The 
investigator then discussed her findings with Mr M over the telephone and record of their 
conversation includes reference to the unsigned Zurich charges information sheet that he 
had challenged, with regards to which the investigator pointed out that the same charges in 
the sheet were within information given to the complainants in the suitability report; and includes reference to Mr M acknowledging that evidence is not in favour of their complaint, 
but that he and Mrs M hold the conviction that what the adviser did was wrong and that the 
matter should be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold the complaint. In straightforward terms, there is credible 
documentary evidence showing that the fees/charges in dispute were expressly agreed by 
the complainants, evidenced by their signatures in the fee agreements that I referred to in 
the previous section; and credible documentary evidence in the suitable report reflecting the 
same; and credible evidence in the documents emailed to the complainants and accessible 
in their platform accounts which conflicts with the claim that the fees were concealed from 
them or that there was an effort to do so.
I have compared the signatures on the fee agreements with those in the complaint 
submissions made by the complainants and I have not found grounds to suspect that those 
on the fee agreements were falsified. It also does not appear to be the complainants claim 
that their signatures were falsified, instead they concede that they signed many documents 
presented to them by the adviser  but, unfortunately, they say they did not read them.
The November 2017 fee agreement confirmed the deductible 5% advice and implementation 
fee, per investment, and the 1% ongoing charge from each platform account; the January 
2018 fee agreement essentially affirmed the same; and the November 2018 fee agreement 
confirmed the pension transfer related fees. Another November 2018 fee agreement, signed 
by Mrs M, refers to an assessment fee of £1,250, to the 5% advice and implementation fee, 
per investment, and to a 1.25% ongoing charge. The suitability report also refers to initial 
advice fees and the Zurich adviser remuneration related documents set out information 
consistent with the fee agreements and with what was deducted for the adviser. 
Overall, the fees/charges deducted for the advisers assessment, initial advice and ongoing 
advice services appear to be supported by documentary evidence in terms of their 
application and in terms of the complainants being made aware of them in writing and 
agreeing to them in writing. I am also persuaded by the balance of available evidence 
showing that the adviser performed work directly related to the assessment, initial advice, 
implementation and ongoing advice charges that were applied/deducted  so I do not 
consider that there is a question about him receiving payment(s) for work that was not 
performed.
For the above reasons, and the evidence supporting them, I cannot reasonably uphold the 
complainants complaint. By saying they were made aware of the fees/charges in writing I do 
not wish to dismiss their claim that they did not know about the fees until late 2018 or early 
2019. I also do not suggest or confirm that I uphold their claim in this respect. As the 
investigator noted, it is difficult and perhaps impossible to make a finding on what happened 
during their meetings with the adviser because only they, the adviser and, I believe, his 
secretary were present at the meetings  and also because there appear to be no 
contemporaneous records of those meetings. 
However, given the existence of a suitability report issued to them, the existence of fee 
agreements they signed and the existence of other fee related documents which appear 
more likely (than not) to have been sent to them  perhaps in the emails they acknowledge 
they did not check or seek to check  it is fair and reasonable, on balance, to conclude that 
they were made aware of the fees/charges that they presently challenge. It is also fair to say they were made aware of this information at the times when the information was relevant to 
the pension and/or investment activity taking place.
I am drawn to Mr Ms reference to their decision to terminate the advisers service. He has 
invited us to infer from this that his account of events is true. Unfortunately for him, I cannot 
reasonably go as far as his invitation seeks because the documents he signed and those 
given and sent to him stand strongly against his account of events. However, I am 
persuaded that something went wrong in the complainants relationship with the adviser and 
perhaps in relation to the fees/charges they dispute. I do not say that he concealed and/or 
misrepresented the fees/charges as they allege. But I consider that there is merit in the 
complainants strength of feeling that their trust had been breached. Unfortunately for them, I 
do not find that this resulted from the subject of their present complaint, and I do not 
consider that I have enough information or evidence to make a finding as to what precisely 
led to their feeling that their trust had been breached.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the complaint from Mr M and Mrs M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman