DRN-3183260
The complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) allowed him to take out an unaffordable loan.
What happened
In May 2015, Mr M applied online for a £2,500 loan with BoS to be repaid over three years. 
The repayments were £95.41 a month. BoS granted him the loan. Mr M repaid the loan early 
in February 2016, he says this was with the help of a family member.
Mr M says that he shouldnt have been accepted for this loan as his credit file reflected the 
financial trouble he was in at the time of application. He says he had missed payments and 
late payments on his other borrowing and his credit file was a mess.
BoS didnt uphold his complaint as it said hed met its lending criteria at the time of 
application. It said Mr M had declared his outgoings as 15% of his income, so this left a 
considerable amount of disposable income to make the loan payments. And it could see his 
actual salary matched what hed declared, and he had other large credits to his account in 
the months prior to taking out this loan.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She said that 
BoS had carried out proportionate checks at the time and that Mr M had met its lending 
criteria. She also said that he hadnt contacted it about financial difficulty until after the loan 
was repaid early, so in relation to this borrowing she couldnt see it had treated him unfairly. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When BoS agreed to lend to Mr M it needed to carry out proportionate checks on his 
finances in order to determine if it could reasonably lend to him. BoS has explained the 
checks it carried out which involve an internal scoring criteria. This information is 
commercially sensitive, so cant be shared with Mr M, but has been shared with our service. 
And based on this Im satisfied that Mr M did meet BoSs lending criteria at the time of 
application. While Mr Ms credit score was a factor in this lending, BoS took into account 
other information about Mr M, such as how he was managing his accounts with it and what 
he declared as his income and expenditure. And based on all these factors it was satisfied it 
could grant him this loan  and from what Ive seen, I cant say that was unfair.
Mr M has said he was struggling financially and missing payments on other debts. But he 
declared to BoS that his salary was £1,500 and monthly commitments only £225. This 
doesnt seem accurate based on what we now know of Mr Ms outgoings, but its what he 
chose to declare at the time and BoS is entitled to reply on that information. As Mr M held a 
current account with BoS it was also able to review this data as part of his application and 
while this showed greater outgoings and that Mr M had an arranged overdraft, his current 
account didnt show Mr M was struggling financially at the time of application. Many people 
utilise arranged overdrafts so I wouldnt say this in itself was a reason not to lend to Mr M, he 
didnt exceed his arranged overdraft in the months prior to applying. I can also see he had a 
large amount of credit in addition to his salary paid into the account in the months prior to the 
lending, so his income was greater than he declared too. And factoring in the monthly 
repayment for this loan was under £100, I cant say it was unreasonable for BoS to approve 
the application, based on what it knew about Mr M and his finances at the time.
Mr M has also commented that the interest rate on the loan was ridiculous. But this wouldve 
been set out to him at application. And looking at the rate, it isnt in the range in which our 
service would consider it high-cost credit. So I dont see a reason to uphold this complaint on 
this point.
I accept Mr M has been through a difficult time and did get into financial difficulty following 
his application for this loan. However I havent seen anything to suggest BoS irresponsibly 
lent to him or that this loan was unaffordable at the time Mr M applied for it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman