DRN-3342509
The complaint
Mr R complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of his buildings insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant law in this case is The Insurance Act 2015. This says the insured (Mr R) 
must make a fair presentation of risk to the insurer  meaning they must disclose all 
material information which they know, or reasonably ought to know of.
AXA said Mr R did not make a fair presentation of the risk at the point of sale and has 
voided his policy.
Ive looked at the question Mr R was asked when he took the policy. And I can see it 
says standard construction is a build of brick, stone or concrete. It also says its ok if 
an area of the roof (less than 20%) hasnt been built with these materials.
When Mr R took out the policy, he confirmed the property was of standard 
construction. 
However, AXA has provided evidence which shows a proportion of the roof  much 
larger than 20% - is constructed of a material that doesnt meet the definition set out 
above. 
I can see AXA has consulted opinions from several experts, and Ive not seen any 
evidence that persuades me the build met the definition set out above. So, I think 
AXAs conclusion is reasonable based on the expert reports.
AXA has provided information to this service from its underwriters. And Im satisfied 
this confirms it would have not offered cover to Mr R had it been given the correct 
build information at the point of sale. 
I acknowledge Mr Rs request to see this information, but its commercially sensitive. 
However, Id like to reassure Mr R Ive reviewed this information carefully and, having 
done so, Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in withdrawing cover. 
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman