DRN-2528288
The complaint
Ms C says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Ms C bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card in the store. It 
covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Ms C and AXA a provisional decision on 21 December 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Ms Cs store card application gave an overview of the PPIs purpose and cost. Then there 
was a section Ms C could sign if she wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if she didnt 
want it. Ms C signed specifically for PPI, and separately signed the form as a whole to 
confirm her choices. Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs sales process from the 
time, nor any evidence which shows that they misled Ms C here. So I think its most likely 
that AXA made Ms C aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms C, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Ms C enough information to decide for herself whether the PPI was 
right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Ms C about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Ms C chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she 
was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations.
Ms C told us she had an exceptionally high rate of sick pay, such that she didnt need PPI. 
But the amount shes told us about is very unusual, and doesnt seem to fit with her 
circumstances  such as her relatively short tenure at the time of the sale. Our adjudicator 
tried to get more evidence about Ms Cs sick pay and savings, but after some months of 
chasing did not get a response. On the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that 
Ms C was mistaken about just how generous her benefits were. And so I think its most likely 
that the PPI wouldve offered her useful cover, not least since it wouldve paid out on top of 
her existing benefits and covered her for a significant period. Of course, if Ms C provides 
evidence of her sick pay and savings from the time, then Im happy to reconsider this point.
But based on what Ive seen so far, it seems most likely that the policy would have been 
useful for Ms C in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Ms C could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
Lastly, Ive thought about the rules concerning the level of commission and profit share on 
PPI policies. But those rules only apply to lenders, and AXA were not the lender here, so 
those rules arent relevant in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it before 
20 January 2021. But neither Ms C nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman