DRN-3993841
The complaint
Mr T complains Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund him for transactions he didnt make.
What happened
Mr T received a message from Capital One to verify a payment made on his credit card. 
Mr T responded to the message to say he didnt recognise the payment, and Capital One 
stopped it from debiting.
Mr T then reviewed the spending on his credit card and noticed other transactions he hadnt 
made. Capital One investigated the transactions, and refunded Mr T temporarily.
Capital One decided Mr T had made the transactions, so it took back its refunds. Mr T 
complained and was passed to the fraud department. Capital One still wouldnt agree to 
refund Mr T and said it had sent one time passcodes for the transactions.
Unhappy with this response, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and thought Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. The investigator thought 
any transactions disputed, made without the one time passcode, should be refunded.
The investigator also thought Mr T had spent a lot of time disputing these transactions and 
Capital One should pay him £150 to compensate for this.
Capital One disagreed and said the transactions were made using an internet protocol (IP) 
address similar to one Mr T uses and the transactions didnt fit the usual spend of a 
fraudster. Capital One asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transactions in dispute were made using a credit card. The consumer credit act says 
Capital One cant hold Mr T liable for transactions he didnt make, or allow someone else to 
make on his behalf. So, I need to decide if its more likely than not Mr T made the 
transactions or allowed someone else to.
The transactions Mr Ts disputing are to an online food delivery company and a ride sharing 
company. These payments are for relatively small amounts.
All the transactions are distance contracts, so Mr Ts physical card wasnt used, just the 
details recorded on the card. Capital Ones terms and conditions say: You will not be liable 
in any amount if someone, not acting or to be treated as acting as your agent, and without 
your prior knowledge or consent, carried out a fraudulent transaction where the cardholder 
does not need to be present (for example, on the Internet, by telephone or mail order).
Capital One has said it cant get further information about the transactions from one of the 
retailers, as it wont share this data. Capital One cant show Mr T benefitted from these 
transactions, theres nothing to show the purchases were carried out on an account in his 
name or delivered to his address.
And all a random third party would need is Mr Ts card details, to enter into their account as 
a payment method, and the transactions could be made. Theres no requirement, for this 
type of payment, to have regular access to Mr Ts card.
Capital Ones relying on the fact it sent one time passcodes to Mr Ts device, and these 
codes were input into the purchase screen. Ive looked at the transactions Mr Ts disputing, 
and there are over 70 hes said werent made by him.
Capital One sent one time passcodes, and these were input successfully, on two of these 
disputed transactions. In total, it appears Capital One sent one time passcodes five times, 
but three were unsuccessful. This seems odd, if Mr T had made these transactions, Id 
expect him to have successfully entered the one time passcodes each time.
Instead, two were abandoned and one was unsuccessful. This means two timed out and one 
had the wrong code entered. But only one of these transactions was attempted again. I think 
its more likely Mr T would have attempted genuine transactions again.
Instead, whoever made the payments didnt go ahead with the purchases on two occasions. 
This seems very odd behaviour if it was Mr T making the payments. Im assuming whoever 
attempted the payment with the food delivery company wanted the order, but they didnt go 
ahead once asked for the one time passcode.
If it was Mr T placing the order, Id assume he would have been able to complete the 
payment. Not completing the payment suggests it wasnt Mr T.
I think its possible someone else was making the transactions, but didnt always have 
access to Mr Ts phone, or the ability, to verify the one time passcode.
I dont think Mr T made the transactions and I dont think Mr T allowed someone else to 
make the transactions. I dont think Capital One can fairly hold Mr T liable for any 
transactions Mr T didnt authorise, via one time passcodes. 
Ive considered what Capital One has said about similar IP addresses, but I dont think this is 
enough evidence to say Mr T carried out the transactions. IP addresses change, and 
someone close to Mr T, making the transactions, would likely have a similar IP address.
Ive also considered what Capital One says about the transactions not fitting a fraud pattern. 
But fraudsters often dont follow patterns, so I dont think the type of spending on the card is 
enough to say Mr T must have made the transactions.
The onus is on Capital One to show, on the balance of probabilities, Mr T carried out the 
transactions or allowed someone else to. I dont think Capital One has shown this, so it 
follows I dont think its fair to hold Mr T liable for any transactions hes disputed where no 
one time passcode has been sent.Putting things right
Since I dont think its fair to hold Mr T liable for payments where no one time passcode has 
been sent, Capital One should refund these payments. Capital One should also refund any 
associated interest for these payments.
Capital One took back the refund it had given Mr T, and theres now a balance owing on the 
card. And it appears Capital One has recoded adverse information on Mr Ts credit file. 
I think Capital One should remove this adverse data as I dont think it can fairly hold Mr T 
liable for the balance owing.
And I can see Mr T spent some considerable time trying to resolve this, and asked for a full 
breakdown of the transactions, but was instead sent many years of statements. I think this 
will have caused Mr T a fair degree of distress and inconvenience, so I think a payment of 
£150 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Capital One (Europe) plc must:
refund all the disputed payments not authorised by a one time passcode
refund any interest associated to these payments
remove any adverse data reported in respect of Mr Ts credit card
pay Mr T £150
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman