DRN-3069940
The complaint
Mr F complains that a branch of Santander UK Plc gave him incorrect information, saying 
that he had no active direct debits on his account, when he did have one. Mr F said this 
caused him to panic. Santander has apologised, but Mr F says it should pay compensation.
What happened
Mr F visited a branch of Santander, and asked about his account. He says he was told there 
were no active direct debits on his account, although there is one. Mr F said that this caused 
him to panic, and affected his mental health. 
Santander said that it has apologised to Mr F for any wrong information it had given him, and 
said it would provide feedback to the branch manager. It says that any mistake wasnt 
intentional. Santander noted that Mr F wanted compensation, but it didnt think that was 
justified here. It said Mr F hadnt made any decisions based on this wrong information, and it 
hasnt caused any problems on his account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that Santander had accepted it had 
made a mistake, and it had apologised. And it had passed on feedback to help prevent this 
from happening again. Our investigator said that because Santander did what she would 
expect by apologising, she thought this was fair and reasonable. 
Mr F said he didnt agree, because he suffers with autism and anxiety. He said that 
Santander knows this, so its liable. Our investigator didnt change her mind, so Mr F said he 
wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint. This case then came to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
Mr F says that Santander should know that giving him wrong information will cause him 
distress, because it knows that he has autism and anxiety. I understand what hes saying, 
but I think that unfortunately, sometimes mistakes will still be made. 
I havent seen anything to suggest to me that Santander gave Mr F wrong information on 
purpose. I think that this was just a mistake. 
So what I would expect Santander to do, to put things right in this case, is to give Mr F the 
right information. I would expect it to say sorry, and to take some steps to try to stop this 
from happening again. 
I think that Santander has done all of those things. I dont think that Santander has to do any 
more. In particular. I dont think that Santander has to make a payment to Mr F, because of 
this mistake. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to tell Santander to do that too.
I know Mr F will be disappointed, but I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman