DRN-1915441
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that the car he acquired through hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) wasnt as described. He says the 
mileage was misrepresented and the interior of the car was dirty. He thinks he was 
overcharged for the car and wants compensation for this and the upset he has been caused.
What happened
Mr H saw an advertisement for a used car in September 2019. The advertisement 
said the cars mileage was 893 miles. Mr H said he called the dealership and 
confirmed the details of the car and based on this he paid a deposit and arranged 
finance.
The car was four months old and Mr H paid £31,500 for it. He financed the 
acquisition in part through a HPA with VWFS. He travelled a long distance to collect 
the car and when he arrived discovered the car had a mileage of 4,500 miles and the 
seats were stained. Mr H raised his complaint with the dealer.
In response to the issues raised by Mr H, the dealer offered to provide a full tank of 
fuel and pay for two free services and pay up to £60 for a valet. Mr H also said he 
was offered £200 in vouchers. Mr H said that the dealer didnt provide any of the 
items it offered.
Mr H raised his complaint with VWFS. He raised the issues previously raised with the 
dealer about the mileage and the quality of the car as well as saying the warranty 
had been sent to an incorrect name breaching data protection. 
VWFS said that the issues raised were best dealt with by the dealer.
Mr H raised his complaint with this service as he didnt think VWFS did a proper 
investigation. He also noted issues regarding the diesel particulate filter (DPF) and 
the grab rail. Mr H said these issues had been fixed at no cost to him.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She thought that VWFS should have 
addressed the issue Mr H raised with it (apart from the data breach issue). She 
considered the issue of the mileage discrepancy and based on her investigation 
didnt think that Mr H had lost out due to this difference or paid more than he should 
have for a car with a 4,500 mileage so she didnt think a refund was required. She 
noted the offers made by the dealer in response to the issue and Mr Hs comments 
about the vouchers and then decided what she felt was an appropriate remedy. She 
thought a fair resolution was for VWFS to pay for the car to be valeted at a dealer 
convenient to Mr H and pay him £300 for the trouble an upset he had been caused.
VWFS accepted our investigators view. 
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. He said he had initially asked to return the 
car due to it being mis-sold. He didnt think VWFS treated him fairly. He felt £300 
compensation wasnt enough, saying he had been misled into the acquisition and the 
businesses should be punished for this. He also said that a free service was worth 
more than £300.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H didnt raise the issue of the DPF filter with VWFS, and it is not clear whether the 
grab rail issue was raised. He has said that both issues have been resolved at no 
cost to him. Therefore, I havent considered these aspects of Mr Hs complaint as 
part of this decision.
Mr H said that the car was mis-sold. Under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) the finance provider can be held equally responsible for any antecedent 
negotiations by the broker (in this case the dealership) prior to entering into a 
regulated credit agreement. Therefore, when Mr H raised his concerns with VWFS, I 
find that it should have investigated his complaint not just passed it back to the 
dealer.
The advertisement Mr H saw said that car had a mileage of 893 miles. He says he 
checked the details with dealer before placing a deposit for the car. When Mr H 
arrived at the dealer the cars mileage was 4,500 miles. This shows that a false 
statement of fact was made. 
Mr H has said that he chose the car based on its low mileage and that he would have 
chosen a different car had he known the mileage before he made the journey to the 
dealer. I have taken these comments into consideration, but I can only consider what 
happened. In this case Mr H had travelled a long way to collect the car and so I 
understand he felt he needed to go ahead with the acquisition. However, I cannot say 
he had to do this. He was aware of the actual mileage when he attended the dealer 
and could have chosen not to go ahead with the acquisition had this been a major 
issue for him. 
Mr H accepted the car knowing the actual mileage, but I understand his concerns 
about possibly having paid too much. I find it reasonable that Mr H should only have 
paid a price that reflected the value of a car with a 4,500 mileage. Our investigator 
set out details regarding the price valuation for cars with different mileage amounts 
and based on this the amount paid by Mr H was reasonable based on its actual 
mileage. Given this I do not find that Mr H has been disadvantaged by this issue.
Mr H also complained about the seats being stained. I have nothing to show what 
information was provided to Mr H before he acquired the car regarding the state of 
the interior. However, I note the car was only a few months old and so it would be 
reasonable to expect the interior to be in a good condition. Based on this I find it 
reasonable that an offer was made for the car to be valeted. 
Mr H was caused distress and inconvenience by the issues he experienced. The car 
had a higher mileage than he expected and while he did still go ahead with the 
acquisition I accept this must have caused him frustration and upset. I also 
understand why he was upset that the car needed to be valeted. Given this I find that 
compensation is reasonable in this case.
Our investigator recommended that Mr H be paid £300 compensation. The dealer 
had previously made an alternative offer to Mr H which he said hadnt been delivered. Having considered the details of this complaint, I find that the £300 
recommended is reasonable. If Mr H wishes to discuss the offer made by the dealer 
separately with it he can do this.
I appreciate how upsetting the issues with the car have been and how Mr H feels let 
down by the dealer and VWFS. However, my role isnt to punish the business but 
instead where a mistake has been made to put the consumer back in the position 
they would have been had this not happened, and where appropriate award 
compensation.
In this case, as Mr H paid price that was reasonable for a car with the actual mileage 
it had, I do not require a refund of the acquisition cost. I find he was inconvenienced 
and caused distress due to the issues he experienced but I find that £300 is 
reasonable compensation for this.
Putting things right
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should, as it has agreed:
pay for the car to be valeted at a Volkswagen dealership convenient to Mr H (or 
alternative provider as agreed); and
pay Mr H £300 for the trouble and upset that he has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should carry out the actions set out above to compensate Mr H for the issues he 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman