DRN-2803717
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that their account wasnt set up to pay monthly interest and that
Metro Bank PLC took a long time to correct this. They are also unhappy that a cheque they
wrote from their Metro Bank account wasnt honoured.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W set up a new investment bond with Metro Bank to pay them a monthly
income. They say the bond should have been set up to pay monthly interest but instead was
set up on an annual basis. They say it took a number of phone calls and a visit to their local
branch before this was fixed.
Separately, Mrs W wrote a cheque for an investment with another company. This cheque
was returned unpaid as Metro Bank said the signature on the cheque didnt match the one it
held on file for Mrs W. Mrs W said this was the first time shed ever had a cheque
dishonoured and it caused her distress and shame.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Metro Bank. They said they clearly asked for the interest to be
paid monthly when they set up the new investment with Metro Bank. And they said that
Metro Bank shouldve contacted Mrs W if it was concerned that the signatures didnt match
those held on file. Mrs W also added that she didnt recognise the signature Metro Bank held
on file for her. Her signature has since been updated.
Metro Bank didnt uphold their complaint. It said it had updated the interest frequency from
annual to monthly following their first call and they hadnt suffered any loss. It said it was
correct not to honour a cheque where the signatures didnt match.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy with this so referred the complaint to us where one of our
investigators looked into it. She initially thought Metro Bank should pay Mr and Mrs W £50
compensation due to the fact that Mr and Mrs W had to call on more than one occasion to
have the interest on their bond changed from annual to monthly. But following further
submissions from Metro Bank, she changed her opinion and thought an apology was
sufficient. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said that due to the UK wide lockdown, they only left their
house if they had to and felt they had to go into the Metro Bank branch as they were worried
the cheque wasnt honoured because their money had been taken. They said Metro Bank
shouldve phoned to tell them about the problems with Mrs Ws signature. They asked for the
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, it was passed to me to consider.
I didnt agree with the conclusions our investigator came to. So, I issued a provisional 
decision asking both parties to provide any further responses. In that provisional decision I 
said:
Its not disputed that Mr and Mrs Ws bond was set up incorrectly. And that they had to call
on more than one occasion to have this changed. They were told that they would receive a
letter confirming that the changes had been made, and Metro Bank has told us this wasnt
sent. Based on this, I can see this wouldve caused them upset and frustration. Mistakes do
happen. But it took Mr and Mrs W a number of attempts to have this rectified. I do
understand that things were difficult for both Mr and Mrs W and Metro Bank due to the
ongoing pandemic. However, I think Metro Bank shouldve rectified its mistake on the first
call and confirmed this in writing to Mr and Mrs W as it said it would.
Ive thought about Metro Banks comments that Mr and Mrs W could have called again
rather than attending a branch. But they had tried this already on more than one occasion.
So, I understand why they felt the need to go into a branch to speak to someone in person.
They also felt they needed to go into the branch because of the problems theyd experienced
with the cheque (which Ill address below). The fact that this was in the middle of a
pandemic, and taking into account Mr and Mrs Ws age, this wouldve caused Mr and Mrs W
further stress and inconvenience. And I dont think it was unreasonable for them to feel they
needed to speak to someone face to face to finally resolve this ongoing issue. Because of
this, I think Metro Bank should pay Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation.
Moving on to the issue of the cheque which wasnt honoured. Ive seen a copy of the cheque
and a copy of the signature Metro Bank held on file for Mrs W. I agree that they dont match.
Neither Metro Bank nor Mrs W can explain why this is. But signatures can change over time,
and this seems the most likely reason to me. So, I dont think Metro Bank was wrong not to
honour the cheque. And it follows that I dont think Metro Bank is responsible for the delays
in the new investment being made.
However, I still need to decide whether Metro Bank shouldve contacted Mr and Mrs W
regarding the cheque not being honoured. Metro Bank has told us its internal process isnt to
contact customers to confirm the veracity of a cheque. However, its also provided us with
copies of its terms and conditions. They say that if it is going to refuse a payment then it will
contact the customer. It also says that if they suspect fraud mayve been carried out, it will
contact the customer. I think one or possibly both of these reasons applied here and meant
that Mr and Mrs W shouldve been contacted once Metro Bank had decided not to honour
the cheque. And even if not for the terms and conditions of the account, I think it would
simply be the fair thing to do in this situation. After all, if the signatures didnt match, there
was clearly a security issue here. And had Mr and Mrs W written another cheque, this issue
wouldve happened again.
Its likely that Mr and Mrs W would still have had to complete a new signature mandate and
issue a further cheque. But had they been contacted, it wouldve saved them the
embarrassment of finding out from the other investment provider that their cheque had not
been honoured, having to return the investment certificate, and the worry of thinking the
money held in that account was missing  the reason they thought the cheque may not have
been honoured. Because of this, I think a further £100 compensation should be paid to Mr
and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W confirmed they had no further comments and were happy with the content of 
the provisional decision. 
Metro Bank didnt agree with the provisional decision. It said:
It agreed that a letter confirming the interest had been set up to pay monthly hadnt 
been sent, however it thought it still wouldve been reasonable for Mr and Mrs W to 
contact them via telephone instead of visiting a branch. It said that once it was 
discovered the letter hadnt been sent, this was rectified and this caused no financial 
loss or detriment.It had no records of Mr and Mrs W contacting them on more than one occasion via 
telephone.
That a letter confirming the correct interest frequency was sent on when it was 
identified that its Contact Centre hadnt arranged for this to happen. 
It said it hadnt contacted Mr and Mrs W in relation to the unpaid cheque as its not 
Metro Banks policy. It referred to specific terms and conditions which it said 
supported this.
The complaint has now been passed back to me to review again and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
In complaints such as this, when what has happened is in dispute, I have to make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. That means what I think is most likely to have 
happened based on the information I do have. Metro Bank says in its most recent response 
to us that it only has a record of one telephone call from Mr and Mrs W during which they 
tried to rectify the interest frequency mistake. However, in its final response to Mr and Mrs 
W, Metro Bank said it had located three calls from them after the account was opened. 
Mr and Mrs W have been consistent within their testimony to us. And Metro Bank originally 
told Mr and Mrs W there had been three calls but now say they can only locate one. Based 
on this, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs W did have to call on more than one occasion 
to try to sort out the mistake relating to the interest frequency. 
We dont know what was discussed during these calls. But given that the interest had been 
set up incorrectly and Mr and Mrs W hadnt received a letter, as they were promised, 
confirming this had been fixed, I think its most likely they were calling about the same issue. 
So even if there only was one call, I still think Metro Bank should be compensating Mr and 
Mrs W for not doing what it said it would in setting up the account correctly in the first place 
and then not sending a letter confirming this had been rectified.
Moving on to the declined cheque, Metro Bank says its policy does not involve contacting 
customers following a cheque not being honoured. However, I believe, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, that the terms and conditions of the account may lead a customer to 
believe they would be contacted. 
Metro Bank has referred to two specific points within its terms and conditions:
We will not contact you or provide reasons for our actions if it would be unlawful to do so or if 
we reasonably consider that it would affect our security procedures.
We may contact you to say there is suspicious activity on your account.
The first point suggests they will contact a customer if they are refusing a payment unless it 
would be unlawful to do so or would affect their security procedures. But Metro Bank hasnt 
provided me with any reasons as to why, in this instance, it wouldve been unlawful or 
affected its security procedures had it got in touch with Mr and Mrs W in these circumstances. And I believe the second point would suggest that Metro Bank might contact 
a customer if there has been suspicious activity on an account  which surely a signature not 
matching would be deemed to be. 
Taking all of this into account I think, as I explained in my provisional decision, Metro Banks 
terms and conditions would lead Mr and Mrs W to expect to be contacted if a cheque was 
going to be declined, and I think it shouldve done so in this situation. I accept Metro Banks 
point that this hasnt caused Mr and Mrs W any financial detriment. But that isnt the reason 
Im awarding compensation. Its for the distress this matter has caused.
Overall, Im still satisfied that Mr and Mrs W should be compensated for the reasons Ive 
explained here and within my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
Metro Bank should pay Mr and Mrs W £200 for the distress and inconvenience its mistakes 
have caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman