DRN-4059640
The complaint
This complaint is about a residential mortgage Mrs and Mr N hold with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. They complain that Barclays switched a part of the mortgage to a tracker rate when 
they applied for a fixed rate. They also say Barclays didnt communicate the switch to them 
in the usual written way, to give them the opportunity to identify and correct the mistake.
Its a joint mortgage and both borrowers have joined the complaint. But all of our dealings 
have been with Mr N.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr N and Barclays Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. Our investigator didnt think 
Barclays had done anything wrong so didnt recommend it be upheld.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr N being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what led to the 
complaint, rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because 
I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr Ns mortgage is in two parts, one of about £396,000, the other for about 
£57,000. On 20 June 2022, they applied online for a new interest rate product on the smaller 
of the two accounts. Barclays replied by email to say the application had been accepted and 
the relevant documents had been uploaded to their online banking account. Barclays has 
told us separately that the documents were also sent in the post.
In August 2022, Mr N complained that the interest rate product that had been applied to the 
mortgage was wrong. He said theyd applied for a fixed rate but Barclays had mistakenly 
applied a tracker product; with rates rising, they were losing out financially. Barclays said the 
application it had received was for a tracker rate and rejected the complaint. When it was 
referred here, our investigator wasnt persuaded Barclays had done anything wrong. 
Mrs and Mr N have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
Mr N has said that both parties made mistakes, so an all-or-nothing outcome isnt fair. As a 
result, he thinks they should be allowed to replace the tracker rate with the fixed rate they 
intended applying for.  I take Mr Ns point, and appreciate why he makes it; however, after 
considering everything thats been said and provided, Im not persuaded Barclays has made 
a mistake. Ill explain why.
All of the available evidence indicates that the application that Barclays received online on 
20 June 2022 was for a tracker rate. I appreciate that wasnt Mrs and Mr Ns intention, but 
Barclays wouldnt know that. What then happened is that Barclays, in essence, did what it 
had been asked to do and let Mrs and Mr N know it had done it.
The email Barclays sent Mr N on 20 June 2022 explained where the offer documents could 
be found online. Mr N has told us he didnt take much notice of that, as he relied on the 
reasonable expectation that Barclays would send the documents in the post, as had been 
standard practice in the past. 
Ive seen evidence that indicates Barclays also sent the offer for the tracker rate by post; it 
was addressed to Mrs and Mr N at the same postal address that Mrs and Mr N gave us 
when they completed our complaint form. Mr N has said that letter wasnt delivered, and of 
course that is possible; not all mail reaches its intended destination. However, 
if Mrs and Mr N were expecting to receive a letter and didnt, that would be a reason for them 
to view the documents online instead.
Mr N has said they should be allowed to substitute a fixed rate in place of the tracker, 
without paying an early repayment charge. It might be worth them asking Barclays if it would 
consider doing so as a gesture of goodwill. But theres no reasonable basis for me to order it 
to do so as a resolution to this complaint, and nothing I say here should be inferred as 
binding Barclays to agree to such a request if made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman