DRN-1791924
The complaint
Mr G has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a credit 
card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr G took out the PPI policy in 2008 at the same time as applying for the credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr G applied for the credit card online. Weve seen copies of the screen pages that Mr G 
would have needed to progress through during the online application process. There is a 
section for PPI which mentions the cost of the PPI and provides a link to the terms and 
conditions. Within that section there is a box that an applicant could click on if they wanted 
PPI. Amex has evidenced that Mr G clicked the box to request PPI.
I think that the Mr G would have known, from the wording and layout of the screen, that the 
policy was optional. He could have left the box un-clicked if he hadnt wanted the PPI.
Mr G says he only requested the PPI because he had rung Amex to enquire about a credit 
card and they advised him that he had to click yes for PPI as part of the online process.
I have no doubt that Mr G has provided his genuine recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Gs memory has faded, 
especially as applying for a credit card isnt normally a particularly memorable event.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr G has said. However, on balance, I think it is more likely 
than not that Mr G knew he had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that he 
probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers 
doing so.
Amex didnt advise Mr G to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. 
But it did need to provide Mr G with enough information for him to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr G says he would have received ten days sick pay from his employer. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to this and potentially for a lot longer than Mr G would have 
received full pay for. Mr G says he had some savings. But having the policy would have meant that he could retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have 
been a difficult time.
Its possible that Amex didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mr G had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that more information would have caused him to change his mind. It follows that I do 
not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G has said that he was in good health and never made a claim on the policy. But that 
doesnt mean that it was mis-sold. Insurance is designed to cover unexpected life events 
and changes in circumstances.
Mr G has also said that another business has upheld his PPI complaint, therefore Amex 
should too. I dont know the details of Mr Gs complaint to the other business. But I have 
assessed the evidence in relation to this case and have concluded that the PPI wasnt mis-
sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman