DRN-3176527
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about her car insurer Society of Lloyds (SOL) in relation to a claim 
settlement it made to her following the theft of her car, and because it refused to transfer her 
policy to her new car.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs G arranged a policy for her car via a price comparison website. The 
website pre-populated an estimated value for the car of £17,000. Mrs G was buying a 
market value policy so paid little attention to the estimate given. The policy was sold on the 
site by a broker who acts independently from SOL.
In November 2020, Mrs Gs car was stolen. SOL accepted the claim and with the car not 
being recovered it said it would settle based on it being a total loss. SOL said the market 
value of the car was £20,560, according to one trade valuation guide it had consulted. But it 
noted the policy had a term stating it would pay the market value or the agreed value stated 
on the policy, whichever was the lower. Mrs Gs policy stated the cars value as £17,000, as 
per the website estimation. So SOL said it would pay this, less the policy excess.
Mrs G was unhappy. She said she had no idea of the importance of the estimation set by the 
website. She complained and, in the meantime, she asked SOL to transfer her policy to a 
new car shed purchased. SOL said it couldnt do that, and that Mrs G owed it the remaining 
three months of cover for her old car. Mrs G felt this was also unfair and made a further 
complaint to SOL.
SOL said it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy, it was always Mrs Gs responsibility 
to check the policy details were correct and its policy terms were clear. SOL later told us it 
accepted the policy term in question was significant and unusual  but it felt it had 
highlighted the term as it was required to do. Regarding the transfer of the policy and 
payment of further premium  SOL said this was what usually happens with policies where a 
total loss claim is settled. So it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
 
Our investigator felt the term wasnt clear and hadnt been clearly drawn to Mrs Gs attention. 
He also noted that SOL had been unable to show that it would have charged Mrs G a higher 
premium if she had changed the estimated value for the car to a sum closer to its market 
value. So he thought SOL had been unfair and unreasonable to restrict its settlement (before 
making a deduction for the policy excess) to the value of £17,000 as detailed on the 
schedule. He said, having consulted the trade guides, that a fair market value was £20,077. 
So he felt SOL should pay Mrs G £3,077 (being the difference outstanding between the fair 
market value and its base settlement figure) plus interest. Regarding the policy transfer, he 
felt SOL had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mrs G was pleased with the outcome. SOL said it disagreed. It said the price for cover had 
no relevance here in a complaint about fair application of policy terms. It said it had drawn 
the term to Mrs Gs attention not least because it was included in an Insurance Product 
Information Document. SOL also said Mrs G should have realised the estimated value 
generated during the sale of the policy, which it wasnt responsible for, was low as it was 
much less than what shed paid for her car only a few years earlier.
The complaint came to me for consideration. I agreed with the redress our investigator had 
suggested for the settlement of Mrs Gs claim. But I also felt SOL should have looked to 
transfer Mrs Gs policy to her new car. I felt it should compensate her for that by reimbursing 
some premiums and paying her £100. So I issued a provisional decision. My provisional 
findings were:
I appreciate that Mrs G might have liked to transfer her policy to her new car. I also 
understand it would be frustrating for her to be asked to pay the remaining monthly 
premiums for the old policy. Especially when she was unhappy with the claim settlement 
SOL had made. Ill look at the claim settlement in a minute  but SOLs position on the policy 
transfer and outstanding premiums was made in line with the policy terms. As SOL has 
explained to Mrs G  the total loss of the car and settlement for this by SOL completed its 
side of the contract, that just left Mrs G to fulfil hers and the contract to end. Which meant, in 
line with the policy terms, Mrs G had to pay the outstanding premiums generated by the 
parties agreement to spread the annual cost of the policy over monthly instalments during 
the year. However, Mrs G did replace her car and did ask SOL to add it to her policy. Whilst, 
as I said, not strictly allowed for by the policy terms, this service does encourage insurers to 
make this kind of amendment. And Ive not seen any good reason for SOL not doing that 
here (such as Mrs Gs new car not meeting its underwriting criteria).
Because SOL wouldnt cover Mrs Gs new car, she had to find cover elsewhere. That meant 
that as well as paying SOL for the remaining three months of cover on her old policy, she 
had to fund the first three months of cover for her new car. Given the way this service 
encourages insurers to amend cover to include replacement cars, I think Mrs G was only put 
to paying twice for insurance in those three months because of SOL unfairly refusing to add 
her car to the policy. I think it should refund the first three months of cover Mrs G paid for her 
new policy, plus interest. I accept that finding new cover at short notice was also frustrating 
for Mrs G and Ive taken this into account when awarding compensation.
Turning to the claim settlement  in my view SOL has acted unfairly in this respect too. By its 
own admission this was a significant and unusual term. As Mrs G has noted it is not one 
common to most policies of this type and SOL is right that whilst it wasnt involved in the 
sale, it still had to draw this term to its policyholders attention. In my view, including the term 
in the product information document doesnt sufficiently do that. The document is a whole 
page of close typed information and this very important term is given no greater highlighting 
or prominence than any other detail in the document. Thats in part because the point of this 
document is to summarise all the key policy information. But a significant and unusual term 
is more than of key importance. Yet here the term in question is given no greater 
prominence, so it isnt, in my view, highlighted for attention. Other general directives in the 
wider policy documents  such as a warning for Mrs G to check her documents  dont put 
her on notice that theres a significant and unusual term included that may limit what SOL 
needs to pay in the unfortunate event of a claim. I dont doubt that if Mrs G had been aware, 
she would have either amended the value in the quote or found a policy which didnt include 
that term. Either way shed have been fully covered when her car was stolen. 
I also think its not fair for SOL to rely on such a term when it hasnt shown that a policy 
based on a slightly increased value for the car would have incurred a higher premium. I note 
what SOL says  that in a complaint about applying policy terms, the premium is irrelevant. But I dont think thats true. When I consider a complaint about an insurer relying on policy 
terms, I have to decide whether I think the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in doing 
so. Here I think the term in question has become relevant because Mrs G made a mistake 
when arranging the cover, and a mistake she likely wouldnt have made or allowed to persist 
if SOL had highlighted the term. And, by then seeking to rely on the policy term, SOL is 
effectively seeking to gain from Mrs Gs mistake. In a situation where it hasnt shown that her 
mistake made it worse off  because it hasnt shown it wouldnt have offered her cover, or, if 
it did, that would have been at an increased premium  thats not fair.
Ive noted the valuations given by the trade guides as found by our investigator (the detail of 
which was shared in his view). I see the average drawn from those three valuations is 
£20,077. I know that SOL paid Mrs G £17,000 less the policy excess. I think that a fair and 
reasonable settlement for this claim and complaint would be for SOL to pay Mrs G £3,077, 
plus interest*. That being the difference between the average market value for her car and 
the sum SOL based its settlement on. As I think it should always have settled her claim in 
line with this figure, I think it should add interest to the payment of £3,077 from the date it 
paid the £17,000 (less the excess sum) until the further sum is paid.
I note this has been frustrating for Mrs G. And that whilst she was able to buy another car, 
she had to find alternate cover for it when SOL unfairly refused to extend the old policy to 
cover the new car. Im satisfied that for the distress and inconvenience SOL caused Mrs G, it 
should pay £100 compensation.
Mrs G said she was happy with my findings. SOL said it disagreed with them.
In summary SOL said:
The policy terms say cover will cease with a total loss claim being paid, and it isnt aware 
of anything that says it should act outside of those terms. So it believes it acted fairly and 
reasonably by not covering Mrs Gs new car.
The outstanding monthly payments were due under the finance agreement, to the 
finance provider which was not SOLs agent, so this aspect cant reasonably be 
considered against it.
The term which allowed it to settle on the basis of the lowest sum of either the market or 
agreed value, is in the important information document which is all its required to do by 
the regulator. And its included quite early on, being on the first page.
Theres no way for it to know which of the terms it includes in the information document 
would need to be given greater or lesser prominence. Not least as the effect of any 
particular term wont be known until/unless a claim is made.
The policyholder has to have some responsibility for reading the documents.
The increased settlement Ive suggested (about 18% it says), equates to more than a 
slight increase in the value to be covered by the policy.
Having clearly highlighted the term to Mrs G in the policy documents, all it sought to do 
was adjust the claim settlement in line with the policy terms, so it isnt fair to say it was 
seeking to gain from Mrs Gs mistake.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledged provisionally that the policy didnt strictly allow for Mrs G to transfer the 
cover to her new car. But its not unusual for this service to say that, in order to treat 
policyholders fairly, the insurer should act outside of what, strictly speaking, the policy allows 
for. I remain of the view that SOL acted unfairly when it refused to cover Mrs Gs new car.SOL wasnt party to the finance agreement that let Mrs G pay her premium over the year. 
But it was SOL that refused to allow Mrs G to add the new car to the existing policy. 
Because it wouldnt do that, Mrs G had to find and pay for cover elsewhere. I remain of the 
view that SOL fairly and reasonably needs to reimburse her cost in that respect.
I cant advise SOL how to present its policy. All I can do is look at the complaint before me 
and determine whether, given all of the evidence and circumstances, it has acted fairly and 
reasonably. And here I think its important to emphasise that this term is significant and 
unusual. Taking the last part of that first  this is a term which is not common to most other 
polices on the market. Most polices are based on market value, with those that are agreed 
value policies being based on a sum the policyholder has clearly and openly agreed to. This 
kind of hybrid isnt common. Which means it wouldnt be difficult for a policyholder  whose 
specific attention is drawn to this term  to find a policy that doesnt restrict the cover in this 
way. And the significance of this term is very clear as it creates a very real prospect for any 
policyholder that when they do make a claim, they will end up with a shortfall. That is unless 
the agreed value selected matches the market value and an ordinary consumer such as 
Mrs G wouldnt have easy access to the trade guides to know what her car was worth with 
any coherent accuracy. So it isnt correct to say, when thinking about this particular term, 
that its significance will only be known/understood when a claim occurs. 
Ideally Mrs G would have read the policy documents. But she is not an insurance expert. 
And its not easy for the average policyholder to read all of the policy documents, fully 
understand all of the terms, and their relevance whilst keeping all the different parts of the 
cover in context. Which is why this service thinks its fair and reasonable to say that 
significant and unusual terms must be specifically highlighted and drawn to the 
policyholders attention. Whilst I see this term was on page one of the important information 
document, I remain of the view that SOLs policy documents did not sufficiently highlight or 
draw it to Mrs Gs attention.  
Whether or not the increased value is seen as slight, SOL hasnt shown that there would 
have been any extra premium charged if Mrs G had given the market value for the car as the 
estimated/agreed value. 
I remain of the view that SOL didnt sufficiently highlight this term to Mrs G, so I dont think it 
can fairly or reasonably rely on it to reduce the settlement paid for the claim. I also remain of 
the view that SOL should reimburse Mrs Gs premiums for the new cover. And that SOLs 
unfair and unreasonable actions caused Mrs G upset. So it should pay her £100 
compensation. 
Putting things right
I require SOL to pay Mrs G: 
An amount, subject to proof from her being provided, to reimburse her first three monthly 
payments for her new insurance for her replacement car, plus interest* from the date 
each was paid until settlement is made.
£3,077, plus interest* in settlement of her theft claim. The interest* must be applied on 
the sum from the date SOL paid Mrs G £17,000 (less the excess sum) until it pays my 
award.
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If SOL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mrs G, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyds to provide the redress set out above at 
putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman