DRN-2817916
The complaint
Mr H complains Santander UK plc (Santander) failed to make an international payment 
within the agreed timescales.
What happened
Mr H says he gave instructions to Santander to make an international payment to his 
brothers bank account in Lebanon for around US $ 80,000 for a property purchase at 
auction. Mr H says at the time of making the international payment he was told it would take 
four days for the payment to arrive. Mr H was informed the money had not arrived, so he 
telephoned Santander and was told to call back if the funds hadnt arrived the following day 
and he could lodge a complaint. 
Mr H says the international payment didnt arrive until after the auction and he missed out on 
the purchase. Mr H says that Santanders compensation payment of £200 doesnt 
adequately cover him for missing out on the property purchase and the inconvenience 
caused. 
Santander have accepted they could have been clearer with Mr H at the outset that 
payments like these, can be subject to further checks which could delay the international 
payment. Santander have said the payment was made within the agreed timescales, 
however, this was held up by further checks from the intermediary bank in Lebanon.  
Santander feel the £200 paid to Mr H for the inconvenience caused is fair. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all of the information available but didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
The investigator felt Santander could have done more to keep Mr H informed of the reasons 
for the delay in the payment and at the outset should have advised Mr H, that further 
regulatory checks could be carried out that may result in delays. That said, the investigator 
didnt feel there was any likelihood the payment could have ever arrived in time for the 
property auction and the compensation paid to Mr H was reasonable. 
Mr H wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr H to learn the international payment he 
instructed Santander to send, didnt arrive in time for the property auction. I can also 
understand it would have been stressful for him not knowing where his payment was during 
the time it was sent to the time it eventually arrived in his brothers bank account in Lebanon.  
So, when looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander were responsible for the delay 
in receipt of the funds in time for the auction, and if the compensation they have paid him is 
sufficient. 
The first thing to say here is Santander have accepted they didnt make it clear, when taking 
the instructions to make the international payment for Mr H, that on occasions further checks 
may be carried out which could delay the payment. I say this as I have listened to a phone 
call Mr H had with Santander and the member of staff didnt mention this, other than to say 
the payment would be with the beneficiary in four business days. 
Mr H says he was told the payment would arrive in four days from the date of the payment 
on 4 December 2020. While I understand that is what Mr H believed he was told, having 
listened to the telephone conversation, the member of Santander staff clearly says four 
business days. This is important as that would have meant the payment couldnt have 
arrived until 10 December 2020 which is a day after Mr H says the auction was held. While 
Mr H may not agree, I cant hold Santander responsible for the loss of opportunity to 
purchase the property as the international payment couldnt have arrived in time for the 
reasons I have already given. It follows I cant hold Santander responsible for this part of Mr 
Hs complaint.
In addition, from the information provided to this service, we have been shown the delay in 
the funds arriving wasnt due to Santander not sending the payment on the 4 December 
2020, as it did, but more of a case that the intermediary bank in Lebanon requested 
additional information from Santander to complete their internal checks. I say this, as its 
worth mentioning it wasnt a matter of Santander delaying the payment that caused the 
funds not to arrive within the timescales expected here. 
Having said that, like the investigator I agree Santander could have explained the process of 
international payments clearer to Mr H at the outset and kept him better informed during the 
time between sending the payment and its eventual arrival. 
My role isnt to penalise banks when service issues like these occur, but to ensure banks like 
Santander, apologise when this happens, and some level of redress is given to reflect any 
inconvenience caused as a result  I am satisfied this is what happened here. I say this 
because in this case, for the reasons I have given before, I cant hold Santander responsible 
for the delay in the international payment to his brothers bank account. 
It follows, I am satisfied the compensation payment of £200 made by Santander is 
reasonable redress for the service issues and the inconvenience this caused Mr H. 
While Mr H will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of Santander. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman