DRN-1232412
 
Complaint
Mrs H held an insurance policy with Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) to provide 
cover for her television. Mrs H is unhappy about how her claim for her television was 
handled.
For ease of reading, any reference to D&G also includes its agents. 
Background
In August 2019 Mrs Hs television became faulty and she contacted D&G to arrange for this 
to be repaired. This was arranged for the following day, but no one arrived. Mrs H contacted 
D&G and was told the appointment was for a phone call assessment only. Mrs H was 
unhappy this hadn't been explained - she said she cancelled other engagements to be at 
home. 
After the call assessment, replacement parts were ordered and an engineer was sent to 
complete the repair. But Mrs H continued to have problems with the television. Another visit 
was arranged but issues remained. Mrs H was also unhappy with a member of D&G staff 
during a telephone call  so she made a complaint to D&G.
D&G looked into her complaint. It agreed it had made a mistake in only booking a phone call 
assessment and that there had been other poor customer service issues, including delays in 
handling her claim. It offered £115 as compensation and due to the problems with the repair, 
D&G agreed to issue a replacement.
Details of a replacement television were provided, but Mrs H said this wasn't suitable as she 
needed a television which had the capacity to swivel on a central stand  the replacement 
offered had separate legs. In addition, Mrs H said her television had been top of the mid-
range models available at the time but the one offered was considered an entry level model 
by the manufacturer. 
D&G said the policy provides a replacement product of the same or similar make and 
technical specification  the television offered as a replacement was the nearest in 
specification. And it said the stand isn't considered as part of the technical specification so 
this wouldn't impact the choice. But as a gesture of goodwill, it did agree to pay her the cash 
equivalent of another television which did have a single central stand. D&G said Mrs H 
accepted this offer in a phone call and the money was sent to her account. But she remained 
unhappy with the way her claim had been handled by D&G and so brought a complaint here. 
Our investigator found that D&G had handled her claim poorly, but the compensation offered 
was fair. She said it was reasonable for D&G to offer a replacement and as the original 
model was no longer available, she found it was fair for D&G to provide one with similar 
technical specifications as detailed in the policy. Mrs H disagreed with our investigators view. She stated that the television offered is not a 
like for like replacement and it wasn't suitable for her home. She didn't agree that the 
compensation offered took into account the failings of the repair company. 
As Mrs H didn't agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. My role is to decide the crux of the 
complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. Where I havent commented on a 
specific complaint point raised by Mrs H its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome for the complaint as a whole.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy, and the parts that apply to Mrs Hs 
claim are as follows:
If your Equipment suffers from Breakdown after any relevant manufacturers warranty, 
we will do one of the following: adjust, repair or replace the Equipment
Any replacement equipment provided may be a refurbished product (of at least the 
same functionality) however we cannot guarantee that it will be the same make, model 
or colour as your original Equipment
If we cannot reasonably arrange a replacement to be supplied to you, we will provide 
you with a voucher instead. The vouchers will be for the full retail price (from a retailer 
chosen by us) of a replacement product of the same or similar make and technical 
specification.
So, I need to consider if D&G has applied those terms fairly in relation to Mrs Hs claim.
When the fault was initially reported and the assessment completed, D&G thought this could 
be repaired. So it looked to repair the television. This repair wasn't successful, and another 
visit was arranged which unfortunately didn't solve the problem either. Im satisfied that D&G 
was entitled to attempt a repair, and from what Ive seen it appears this was also Mrs Hs 
preferred option. 
Mrs H says the repairs were handled poorly. The engineer had to come out multiple times, 
and she has questioned the quality of their work. D&G has agreed that it took too long for the 
repairs to take place. It said it would expect a repair to be completed within a week and this 
was still not completed three weeks later. So, D&G offered to replace the television. As it 
wasn't clear an effective repair could be achieved, Im persuaded that offering a replacement 
was the right thing to do.
The original television came with 3D functionality - the replacement doesn't. Mrs H doesn't 
agree that the replacement can be considered as having the same technical specification. I 
appreciate her frustration at not receiving a 3D television, but the policy only requires D&G to 
provide a replacement with the same or similar technical specification. And the replacement 
offered newer technology - as 3D functionality has become obsolete. Mrs H has also said 
this is a lower range model than the one she had  but the policy doesn't require D&G to 
take this into consideration. Im therefore satisfied D&G have acted fairly by offering this 
alternative.Due to the layout of her home, Mrs H says she needs the television to be able to move on a 
central stand, and she is unhappy the initial one offered had fixed legs. But the policy only 
refers to the technical specification  Im not persuaded the positioning of the legs can be 
considered as a technical specification. However, I can see that D&G did agree, as a 
gesture of goodwill, to make a cash settlement for the price of a television which did have a 
central stand. Mrs H accepted that cash settlement. So, I dont think D&G has to do anything 
more.
I can see that D&G has also offered compensation of £115 to Mrs H for poor customer 
service. Im satisfied this sum represents a reasonable offer for the issues encountered by 
Mrs H. As a result, I dont require D&G to make any further award.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman