DRN-2052547
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Tesco Insurance Limited handled his claim following an escape
of water at his property.
Mr S representative in bringing his complaint to us is his son also Mr S. Its Mr Ss 
representative I will refer to in my decision.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr S made a claim against a home insurance policy with Tesco for damage 
caused by an escape of water from a burst pipe. Mr S initially said the property had been 
occupied by his parents, but theyd moved to his home address in February 2018 for health 
reasons.
Tesco declined the claim in February 2019. They said a claim for escape of water was 
excluded when a property is left unoccupied. And Tesco had been told the property had 
been unoccupied for several months before the incident.
Mr S disagreed the property had been unoccupied and said his parents had been out of the 
country since December 2017, but that he and his wife had lived at the address until 
February 2018. As the damage had been caused in March 2018 Mr S said theyd satisfied 
the policy term condition as the property was occupied.
Mr S provided several bills for the insured property to show he had been living there. But 
Tesco said the evidence was insufficient to change their belief that the property was 
unoccupied. They also said Mr S had given mis leading and inaccurate information to their 
loss adjustor when he first made his claim.
Mr S wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator asked for further evidence to substantiate Mr Ss claim that he had been 
living at the insured address. But said shed been persuaded that Tesco had applied the 
policy terms correctly and she didnt uphold Mr S complaint.
Mr S didnt agree and reiterated that he and his wife had been resident at the address. He 
asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base 
my decision on what I think most likely happened. 
I can understand the upset that has been caused to Mr S as an escape of water can be a 
very distressing experience and appreciate this has been a difficult time for him. But in 
reaching my decision Ive needed to decide whether Tesco has applied their terms fairly and 
reasonably.  
Mr S, on visiting the property in early March 2018 found there had been an escape of water. 
He said he hadnt known the property was insured so had made his own arrangements. On 
finding the property was insured through Tesco he made a claim for the damage in late 
March 2018. And Tesco arranged for the property to be inspected. I can see that the loss 
adjuster made several reports in April, June, September and December 2018, and further 
reports in January and February 2019.
In April 2018, Mr S told the loss adjuster that the property had been occupied by his parents up to 
February 2018, when due to health issues they had moved to his home address. Mr S said he 
continued to visit the insured address after this time to ensure the property was heated, with the 
thermostat set to 15 degrees Celsius. And it was on one of these visits in early March 2018 that 
hed found running water, with the hall carpet saturated and a large crack in the lounge ceiling with 
water pouring through it. He contacted a local plumber who found water had permeated the ceilings 
in all of the bedrooms and the bathroom, and the floor was saturated throughout. The plumber 
found the cause to be a pipe that had burst due to it having frozen. The damaged pipe was 
repaired. Mr S removed the undamaged contents, and his contractors stripped out all the water 
damaged ceilings and set about drying out the property. 
In June 2018, Mr S amended the details hed originally given and confirmed his parents had left the 
country on 16 December 2017. He said his father had never permanently resided at the insured 
address. And it was he and his mother whod lived there since 2003, and his wife after they married. 
The property where Mr S says he now resides was bought in June 2017. And it was from July 2017 
Mr S said he had concerns about his mothers well being and was looking to move her out of the 
insured property. His father returned in September 2017, and both he and Mr S mother left the 
country in December 2017.
The loss adjuster raised doubt over the property being occupied as Ive seen the insurers for Mr S 
neighbours are investigating a claim for damage to their clients property caused by this escape of 
water. Theyve commented that their client said the property Mr S had made the claim for had been 
unoccupied for several months prior to the incident. And the loss adjuster actively looked into this.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr S has given which he says shows he was still residing in the insured 
property. Mr S has provided van receipts for December 2017, which would appear to confirm that 
there were removals from the property around the time his parents left. He has also provided utility 
bills for the insured property, but these were estimates for gas and electricity usage, with the bills 
being paid by a fixed monthly direct debit. The digital and television bills were changed in February 
and April 2018. And I can also see that Mr S intention was to let out the property from February 
2018 after some maintenance work had been done. He has also shown gas and electricity bills for 
the property he now resides at which were from December 2017.
Ive looked carefully at Mr S home insurance policy. 
Tescos terms and conditions say they will not pay for:
any loss in the event of damage occurring where the property has remained unoccupied for 60 or 
more consecutive daysAnd its this exclusion they have applied in declining Mr S claim. In considering the above 
information, on balance, Ive not been persuaded that the insured property was occupied for 60 or 
more days in a row from 16 December 2017 with the water escape being found by Mr S on 4 March 
2018. There was considerable damage caused by the water leak, including permutation into the 
next-door property which I think implies the leak had been on going for some time. The pipe had 
burst due to the propertys cold conditions. And Tesco had been told the property had stood empty 
for several months which I think is supported by Mr S having another property from June 2017, and 
his parents leaving the country in December 2017. 
The terms and conditions also say:
 Making a false statement, misrepresenting or withholding information from us or the administrator 
could result in your policy being voided, as if the policy never existed. As a result all claims under 
your policy will be refused and all premiums that you have paid may be retained. 
And its not disputed that Mr S originally version of what had happened hadnt been correct.
I know Mr S will be disappointed by my decision but having considered all the evidence and 
arguments I dont think Tesco in declining his claim had applied the exclusion they relied on unfairly 
or unreasonably. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman