DRN-3953241
The complaint
Mr A complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund a number of payments from his account 
which he says he didnt make.
What happened
In September 2021, a series of payments were made from Mr As Barclays account to a 
cryptocurrency exchange. On 6 September 2021, three payments of £2,000, £3,900 and 
£4,000 were made. Mr A says he only found out about these payments when he checked his 
account by logging into Barclays mobile app later that day. He then reported the payments 
to Barclays as fraud. And then on 9 September 2021, a further two payments of £1,970 and 
£4,000 were made. Mr A again says he only found out about these payments when he 
logged into Barclays mobile app later that day. He then also reported these payments to 
Barclays as fraud.
Barclays investigated but said all the payments were made using a device that Mr A had 
used before for genuine payments, and were made by logging into Barclays mobile app 
using Mr As genuine security details. As Mr A said no-one else had access to his phone or 
knew his security details, Barclays felt it was likely he had authorised the payments. So it 
didnt agree to refund them. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They couldnt see how anyone else, apart 
from Mr A, could have made the payments. So they didnt think it was likely the transactions 
were the result of fraud and didnt think Barclays should have to refund them. Mr A 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, a business can hold a customer liable for disputed transactions on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the customer made the payments 
themselves, or told someone else they could make them.
Barclays has sent us technical evidence showing how the payments Mr A has disputed were 
made. And from this, Im satisfied all the payments were made using Mr As genuine mobile 
banking security details. But this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Barclays to hold Mr A 
responsible. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely 
than not that Mr A consented to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Barclays evidence shows that all the payments were made using a device that had been 
used to log-in to Mr As mobile banking app a number of times previously, and that was the 
only device that had been used to log-in to Mr As mobile banking app during the previous 
five months. The device used was also the same one that had been used to make a number 
of earlier payments on Mr As account, that Mr A hasnt disputed.
Mr A has said no-one else has access to his phone, he doesnt share his phone with anyone 
and he hasnt given anyone else permission to use his phone. Hes also said no-one else 
knows the security code to unlock his phone. But, if this is the case, I cant see how anyone 
other than Mr A would have been able to make the payments using his phone. In order for 
someone else to have done so, they would have needed to find out the security code to 
unlock his phone and then take and replace his phone several times across several days. 
And I think its unlikely someone would have been able to do this without Mr As knowledge.
Barclays evidence also shows that, when the payments were made, Mr As mobile banking 
app was logged into using his mobile banking security passcode. And Mr A has said hes 
never told anyone else his security details and never written them down anywhere. But 
again, if this is the case, I cant see how anyone other than Mr A would have been able to 
log into his mobile banking app. They would have needed to take his phone without him 
knowing and then correctly guess his security passcode. And given the number of possible 
number combinations Mr As code could have been, and that there dont appear to have 
been any incorrect guesses, I think this is unlikely.
The nature of the payments is also not the sort of thing an opportunistic thief would normally 
do after gaining access to someones bank account. Generally, the way fraudsters operate is 
to get as much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the source of the money being 
cut-off or them being detected. But here, the first three payments that are made dont use 
the full available balance of the account. And its three days before the next two payments 
are made. So I dont think its likely these payments were made by an opportunistic thief.
I appreciate how Mr A feels about this case, but Im afraid the evidence isnt in his favour. I 
dont think the evidence suggests these payments were made by an unknown third-party. 
And, based on the evidence I have and in the absence of any other likely explanation, I think 
its likely he either made the payments himself or allowed someone else to do so.
So I dont think Barclays needs to refund the payments to him.
Mr A has mentioned that Barclays told him his account would be blocked when he reported 
the first three payments as fraud on 6 September 2021  and so he says the later two 
payments shouldnt have been allowed to leave his account on 9 September 2021. But 
having listened to a recording of the call of 6 September 2021, I dont think Barclays does 
say his account is blocked or suggests that any further payments cant be made out of his 
account. Barclays orders Mr A a new card and PIN and suggests he change his mobile 
banking security passcode, which I think was reasonable. But I dont think it suggests his 
account is blocked or that payments cant be made from it.
Mr A has also sent us a phone bill showing he made another phone call to Barclays on 
9 September 2021, after the later two payments were made. And hes sent us a statement 
from a friend of his who was with him that day which says that, in this call, Barclays was 
surprised that further payments were able to be made after Mr A had first reported the fraud 
on 6 September 2021. Mr A feels Barclays should have done more to protect his money 
after he first reported the fraud on 6 September 2021.
But, even though I accept there was another call on 9 September 2021 and that the Barclays 
employee Mr A and his friend spoke to was surprised further payments had been made, I dont think this means Barclays should have to refund the payments. As I explained above, I 
dont think Barclays suggested Mr As account would be blocked in the call of 6 September 
2021. I dont think the employees surprise means that Barclays had necessarily made an 
error. And, as I think its likely Mr A either made the payments himself or allowed someone 
else to do so, I dont think it would have made a difference even if Barclays had done more 
to protect his money  as, if Barclays had called him and asked, I think he would have said 
he wanted the payments to go through.
So I dont think Barclays has made an error or acted unreasonably in any of these calls, or 
that it should have to refund any of the payments that were made as a result.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman