DRN-4223057
The complaint
Ms M complains about Clear Capital Markets Ltd. She thinks she was advised to take too 
much risk and invest in unsuitable products. 
What happened
Ms M became an advisory client of CCM in October 2019. Her investment objective was 
noted as seeking income and capital growth and she was assessed as having a medium 
attitude to risk (ATR). She had investment experience in major shares and small cap shares 
and was interested in FTSE 350 shares and placings.  
She was in regular contact with CCM and traded frequently but by 2022 the value of her 
account had fallen significantly. She complained to CCM about the advice shed received, 
and said in summary, that the brokers werent competent and CCM should have got out of 
an investment in Mast Energy Developments Ltd earlier than they did. 
CCM looked into the concerns that had been raised but didnt uphold the complaint. They 
thought that the recommendations theyd provided to Ms M were suitable and in line with the 
information shed provided when she opened her account. They noted that:
Her accrued annual losses hadnt breached her annual risk capital figures and the 
cumulative value of her CCM investments hadnt exceeded 50% of her total 
investment portfolio which was the threshold shed said was available for investment 
in high-risk products.
Ms M had confirmed that she had an extensive overall understanding of financial 
markets and previous investment experience in all the products recommended by 
CCM.  Shed also confirmed her understanding that the value of shares and ETF's 
and the income from them may go down as well as up. 
Ms M had the final decisions on any trades that had been made. She could have said 
no to any of their recommendations if she was unsure about the advice being 
provided.
All the recommendations were in line with her risk profile and if shed wanted to, she 
could have implemented risk management on her investments. 
They didnt think the recommendation to invest in Mast was unsuitable. Shed agreed 
to the investment and hadnt mentioned any desire to put a stop loss in place. In any 
event, it wasnt possible to put a stop loss in place for the Mast holdings due to the 
size of her holding and how the shares were traded. 
Ms M didnt accept their findings and asked us to look into the matter. Her complaint was 
considered by one of our investigators who thought it should be upheld. He didnt agree with 
how Ms Ms total net worth had been calculated as it included her main home and 
investment properties. The impact of this was that it showed that Ms M had c.£115,000 
available to invest in high-risk products when in reality she was only investing a total of 
c.£37,000 across her CCM portfolio.  
He also thought that too much of Ms Ms portfolio was invested in Mast. CCM had advised 
her to invest c.£30,000 into Mast which was the vast majority of her portfolio. This meant 
most of her portfolio was concentrated in one holding which wasnt suitable for her 
circumstances. However, he didnt think there were any complaints about the service and 
recommendations Ms M received until the Mast recommendation  so he only considered 
she was treated unfairly from the time of the Mast investment and proposed redress from 
this point.
CCM didnt agree with his findings. They thought that Ms M was fully aware of the risks 
associated with the ongoing service theyd provided and shed agreed to her responsibilities, 
including her responsibility to say no, when she completed each of her three Retail Client 
Profiles (RCPs). Shed explicitly confirmed that she understood her responsibilities and 
agreed to them.
Theyd ensured Ms M had time to consider their recommendation to invest in Mast and shed 
replied via email saying Okay go ahead. In each of her completed RCPs, Ms M classed 
herself as having an extensive overall understanding of financial markets CCM operated in. 
Based on this, it wasnt credible of her to suggest her account was mismanaged. 
As a self-classified experienced investor using CCMs advisory service, Ms M took the 
decision herself to proceed with the Mast investment. By buying Mast on a T-10 extended 
settlement, shed embraced the investment risk, given the potential future investment returns 
on offer. She would have been happy to reap any profits in Mast but as she was fully aware 
of the inherent risks and lack of guarantees when investing, she should also take 
responsibility for the loss incurred.
They didnt agree that theyd incorrectly calculated Ms Ms total net worth and capacity for 
loss. The RCP document, which shed completed and signed, contained the clear statement, 
How much, as a percentage of your Total Net Worth could you afford to lose without it 
affecting your lifestyle?, with her capacity for loss figure calculated as £115,050, based on 
her answer to the first question.
The words Total Net Worth were highlighted in bold and underlined. Ms M completed and 
signed this document, thereby confirming its accuracy, meaning beyond any reasonable 
doubt that she had considered her answer of £115,050 as suitable. 
If the 5% capacity for loss was based only on the c.£37,000 she wished to invest with CCM 
then this would equate to a figure of c.£1,800. This figure was absurd for an individual 
investor with a multi-million pound investment portfolio. Such a small risk figure would render 
any actual investment activity on her CCM account impossible to justify on capacity for loss 
grounds, even if the advice provided was based on a low-risk shares.
They thought they had a duty to determine a clients capacity for loss across their total net 
worth and not just what was invested with CCM. This was because the vast majority of their 
clients had alternative investments outside of their CCM account. Ms M had most of her total 
holdings (c.£1,800,000), in low-risk property investments, so the c.£37,000 she had in her 
CCM account only represented a small portion of her wealth and could therefore be exposed 
to high risk. 
They also questioned why the investigator had accepted Ms Ms claim that she was suffering 
from ill health without any evidence to back up this claim and thought this may have 
influenced his extra compensation payment of £250 and skewed his response to Ms Ms 
complaint. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld and I will now explain why. In 
considering whether CCM acted appropriately when they gave Ms M advice, I am required to 
take into account any relevant laws and regulations, guidance and rules provided by the 
regulator, and any codes of practice. I am also required to take into account, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.   
An adviser has certain obligations under the regulators Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) 
rules and Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Some of the key rules Ive considered in 
determining if the advice was suitable are:
COBS 9.2.1: which says, in summary, that a firm must ensure that a recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable for its client. And when doing so, they must obtain sufficient 
information about the client's knowledge, experience, financial situation and objectives
COBS 9.2.2: which broadly says, among other things, that a firm needs to get enough 
information from the customer to be able to make sure the recommendation meets their 
objectives, theyre able to bear any related investment risk and they understand the risks 
involved. 
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ive firstly considered the points CCM have made about how they calculated Ms Ms total net 
worth and capacity for loss. Having done so, I disagree with their methodology. I dont think it 
is appropriate to include the value of Ms Ms main property and investment properties. I 
consider these to be assets which werent readily realisable and therefore shouldnt have 
been included in an assessment of whether her assets were suitably invested. 
Had the value of the properties been excluded then Ms Ms finances would have looked very 
different. In 2019 she held £151,000 in FTSE 350 shares and £100,000 in cash. I think this 
asset split is in line with her medium ATR and I think these are the liquid assets from which 
her capacity for loss should have been calculated. She said she could afford to lose 5% of 
her investments so this would equate to a capacity for loss figure of £12,550. I think this is a 
more accurate figure and further proof of this can be seen in an email exchange between Ms 
M and CCM in February 2021 discussing her capacity for loss:
CCM - Hi ****, did you mean to put £500 down as the capacity for loss that would mean I 
would have to close the positions down if the account falls £500 from here which could just 
be normal daily fluctuations? Doesnt need to lots but £500 leaves very very little room
Ms M - So what is the minimum I can put down  it is just that 115,050 is quite risky. Can 
you indicate what is the reasonable number
CCM - Hi ****, based on our conversation, please can you confirm 10k as the max capacity 
for lossMs M - Okay I agree with 10k.
Following this exchange and taking into account the RCP which was also completed in 
February 2021 which again confirmed her capacity for loss as £10,080, I dont think there 
could have been any doubt that Ms M didnt want to risk loss of £115,050. This means that 
she wasnt in a position where all the funds she had in her CCM portfolio should have been 
exposed to a high level of risk. 
With this in mind, I think CCM should have been aware that the recommendation theyd 
made to Ms M a few weeks earlier at the end of January 2021 to subscribe in the Mast IPO 
wasnt right for her circumstances. Especially as it meant most of her portfolio would be held 
in one high risk holding where previously it was diversified between a number of holdings in 
more mainstream shares. Because of this I dont think CCM have treated Ms M fairly and Im 
satisfied they need to put things right from the time Ms M made the investment into Mast. 
I note the comments CCM have made about the payment for distress the investigator 
awarded. Ms M has provided testimony detailed the challenges shes faced over the last few 
years; I thank her for her honesty and I find her testimony plausible. I am therefore satisfied 
that she has been caused distress and I think an award of £250 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms 
M as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Ms M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Ms M's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must CCM do?
To compensate Ms M fairly, CCM must:
Compare the performance of Ms M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
CCM should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Ms M £250 for distress caused by seeing her CCM share portfolio value 
significantly reduce.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
CCM 
PortfolioStill exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors Date of 
investment 
into Mast Date of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to Income Total 
Return Index(31/3/21) settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the CCM should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if CCM totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms M wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Clear Capital Markets Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Clear Capital Markets Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Ms M in a clear, 
simple format.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman