DRN-3992067
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by CST Wealth Management Limited (CST) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to 
a personal arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr T approached CST in August 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. He was 
concerned about the situation with his employer and the DB scheme. 
CST completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ts circumstances and objectives. 
This showed that he was aged 52 and married. He had two non-dependent children who 
were aged 21 and 23. He was employed earning £38,000 a year. Mrs T was employed and 
earning £6,000 per year. She was a deferred member of a DB scheme. They owned their 
own home which had a value of around £150,000. It was subject to a mortgage that had 
twelve years left to run. They had around £5,000 on deposit and they had borrowed £7,000 
in credit. 
In respect of his pension arrangements: 
Mr T received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS in July 2017. This 
showed that he had just over 10 years service and his pension at the date of leaving was 
£6,186.38. The CETV was £127,323.27.  
Mr T had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. He was 
contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 10%. He had death 
in service benefits of four times his salary as part of the scheme. 
Mr T also had deferred OPS DC scheme benefits valued at roughly £160,000 from a period 
of work with a previous employer. 
CST also carried out an assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, which it said was high 
medium. But he agreed that a cautious approach was more appropriate for his BSPS 
pension benefits. This was because he had a low capacity for loss. 
On 14 November 2017, CST advised Mr T to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in funds that it said matched his attitude to risk. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were, in summary, that Mr T 
wanted to:
Secure the generous transfer value as he was concerned about the DB scheme 
moving into the PPF. 
Take some tax-free cash at age 55 to repay some debts and help his children with 
life events such as an upcoming marriage. 
To be able to distribute his pension to his family on his death. 
To work until 60 and the DB scheme would reduce his benefits if he took them early. 
On 24 January 2018 CST recommended Mr T consolidate his deferred OPS DC benefits into 
the new personal pension. This was to improve the investment opportunities. 
And in March 2018 CST again recommended that Mr T transfer all of this new personal 
pension to another third-party SIPP provider and used a discretionary fund manager to 
manage the investments. 
Mr T complained in 2022 to CST about the suitability of the transfer advice because hed 
received information that led him to think that he may have lost out due to the transfer. 
CST didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said that the advice was suitable for him as he wanted 
to withdraw larger amounts early on and then vary the amount of income he may receive, for 
example taking less when the state pension became payable. And he did want greater 
amounts of tax-free cash than the DB scheme would have provided. 
Mr T referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended that CST pay compensation. He thought that the advice to 
transfer wasnt right as Mr T would likely receive lower pension benefits and he didnt really 
need the flexibility of the personal pension. And the new SIPP arrangement was more 
expensive than the DC arrangement he gave up so that wasnt likely to be suitable either.  
CST disagreed although it didnt provide any commentary about the merits of the complaint. 
It did comment on the redress the Investigator had proposed but this redress has now been 
superseded by the industry regulators new guidance and its new BSPS-specific 
compensation calculator. Ive looked at what is appropriate compensation later on in this 
decision.  
In any event, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint 
was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CST's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CST should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests. This is because:
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that CST was required to carry out by the 
regulator, calculated the critical yield. This is how much Mr Ts pension fund would 
need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme 
(the BSPS2 in this case). This was 7.78% to match the full pension hed have been 
entitled to under the scheme at age 65. Or 6.33% to match the maximum tax-free 
cash and reduced pension the scheme would provide at 65. The same calculations at 
his age 60 were 12.2% and 9.76% respectively. To match the full pension the PPF 
wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 6.02% and to match the tax-free cash and 
reduced pension the PPF wouldve offered, it was 5.59%.
It was agreed that Mr T wanted to take a lower risk for this transfer (even though his 
attitude to risk was assessed as high medium). The discount rate was 3.9% for 
eleven years to retirement (his age 65) and 3.3% for six years. And the regulators 
low and middle projection rates were 2% and 5%. Because of these I think Mr T was 
always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 60 or 65, of a lower value that 
those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. And if Mr T retired any earlier this calculation 
would probably be higher, so I think he was even more likely to receive lower benefits 
than either the BSPS2 or the PPF offered. And this was noted in the suitability report 
which said that in our opinion these critical yields are not guaranteed to be achievable year and year. And gave warnings that he may not be able to secure the 
same, or same type of income, as the DB scheme would have provided. 
CST has said that Mr T wanted to access tax-free cash from his pension at age 55 to 
repay some debt and help out his children. It seems established that this was the 
case and Mr T did go on to do this. CST thought it was reasonable to use the 
transferred-out funds for this as he had indicated that he and his wife could live off 
their state pensions, providing just over £8,500 each, and a DB scheme that Mrs T 
had that would provide £4,500 per year. So, he could use the BSPS transfer value, 
and his other DC funds, and take the maximum tax-free cash to help out his family 
and withdraw a flexible income if he wanted to retire early.  
But it wasnt CSTs role just to put in place what Mr T mightve thought he wanted. Its 
role was to advise him on what was in his best interests. And even if Mr T indicated 
that he was considering drawing from his pension early, I dont think this meant a 
transfer was in his best interests to do this.
CSTs notes from the time of sale show, Mr T could have met his income needs at 
age 60 from the BSPS2. Which would mean using his existing DC scheme flexibly 
was a realistic option for him. Mr T had a significant amount in this, around £160,000, 
that he could have accessed. I note he took as much tax-free cash as he could from 
the combined DB transfer and DC schemes value (around £75,000). And he wouldnt 
necessarily have been able to take all of this from the DC scheme as tax-free cash. 
There may be a tax burden at some point depending on Mr Ts circumstances at the 
time. So, there was a potential cost to obtaining the money this way.  
But Mr T was giving up a guaranteed and increasing income to withdraw these sums. 
And there was a significant risk that he would have lower retirement benefits because 
of this. I dont think it was right to say this lower income wasnt important due to 
Mr and Mrs Ts other provisions. Im not persuaded it was in his best interests to give 
up this guaranteed income. 
Whilst Mr Ts aim for tax free cash was clearly important to him. I dont think that CST 
should have advised him to alter his retirement provisions, at a significant potential 
overall cost, without fully exploring any alternatives could have used to meet these 
aims. I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility in this way was in his best interests.
CST said Mr T was interested in the improved death benefits a transfer offered to his 
family and the transfer could become an asset for them rather than just providing for 
his pension. But the priority here was to advise Mr T about what was best for his 
retirement. And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses 
pension, that couldve been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr T drew in his lifetime. And so may not have provided 
the legacy that Mr T may have thought it would. 
If Mr T had wanted to leave a legacy for his family, CST couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. It recorded that he had significant disposable income 
through which he couldve met the associated premiums. And this couldve been 
considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be 
cheaper. But there's little evidence CST did so.  Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately CST should not have encouraged 
Mr T to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ts desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension 
funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given on the basis 
hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension, particularly when it 
moved into the more complex investments in the SIPP. So, I dont think that this was 
a genuine objective for Mr T  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from 
his DB scheme.
Mr T may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was CSTs role to objectively 
address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr T with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr T was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see any persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ts best interests 
to give up his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also 
havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr T wouldve insisted on transferring, 
against advice to remain in the DB scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I 
think the advice Mr T received from CST was unsuitable for him.
Mr T was later advised to transfer his deferred DC benefits into the new DC 
arrangement. And then to transfer all of these into a SIPP. As our investigator 
detailed the new arrangement had higher costs than the DC pension he transferred 
from. And I dont think Mr T would have made this transfer without being given advice 
to transfer the DB scheme. So, I dont think the advice to do this was in Mr Ts best 
interests either. 
Our investigator recommended that CST pay Mr T £250 for distress and uncertainty 
this matter has caused. Mr T was concerned that his pension benefits could be lower 
due to the advice. This would particularly be the case given the uncertainty that 
surrounding his employment and pension planning at the time of advice. And hes 
also felt that the complaint process has been difficult as he didnt want to affect the 
relationship with his adviser. Mr T wouldnt have had these issues if CST had advised 
him properly, so I think this amount is fair compensation for this. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
I also think he would have retained his existing DC OPS arrangements.  What should CST do?
To compensate Mr T fairly, CST must determine the combined fair value of his transferred 
pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual value is greater 
than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the date of the calculation.
fair value  step one
If Mr T had been given suitable advice, I think he wouldve most likely joined the BSPS2. 
CST must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr T lost as a result of transferring out 
of his DB scheme in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension 
transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators 
handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CST should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what CST based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
fair value  step two
CST must use the benchmark shown below to determine the fair value of Mr Ts SIPP if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end date)Additional 
interest
Value of Mr 
Ts original 
DC OPSStill exists Notional value 
of original 
pension plans 
to be obtained 
from Mr Ts DC 
OPS.Date of 
investment in 
the personal 
pension that 
preceded the 
SIPPDate of my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 90 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)Any additional sums paid into the personal pension or SIPP should be added to the fair 
value calculation from the point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, 
income or other payment out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if 
CST totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts CSTs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, CST may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ts 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount.
In the event that it isnt possible to obtain any notional value from the providers involved then 
CST will need to determine a fair value for Mr T's investment instead, using this benchmark: 
For half the investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other 
half: average rate from fixed rate bonds. This is a suitable method of compensation because:
Mr T wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.I consider that Mr T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr T into that position. It does not mean that Mr T 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr T could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
CST should pay Mr T £250 for the distress and inconvenience the poor advice caused him.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require CST Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
CST Wealth Management Limited pays Mr T the balance.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on CST Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman