DRN-3157250
The complaint
Ms H and Mr H complain that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt allow them to transfer 
their joint mortgage into Ms Hs sole name and then port it to a new property.
What happened
Ms H and her son, Mr H, took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2015. In January 2020, 
they took a new two-year fixed interest rate. An early repayment charge (ERC) would apply if 
the mortgage were repaid before February 2022.
In June 2020, Ms H and Mr H applied to Nationwide to remove Mr H from the mortgage and 
transfer, or port, the mortgage to a new property. Ms H said she had been paying the 
mortgage on her own for over a year, and she wanted to move house. The property she 
planned to buy was worth more than her current home (so the loan-to-value ratio would be 
lower), and she didnt want to borrow any more money or alter the term or repayment basis 
of the mortgage.
Nationwide declined the application. Following an appeal, it said it would reconsider its 
decision on receipt of information and evidence about Ms Hs income and her and her sons 
circumstances. That included more information about the cash payments that had recently 
been made into Ms Hs current account, as it wasnt satisfied with Ms Hs explanation that 
the payments were from vulnerable friends and family for whom she had been shopping 
during the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
Ms H and Mr H got in touch with us. Our investigator thought porting the mortgage would be 
in Ms Hs best interests, so he said Nationwide should allow Ms H to port. He also 
recommended Nationwide pay £200 compensation for stress and inconvenience.
Nationwide disagreed. It said it hadnt given its final answer on the application: it had been 
prepared to review the application and had asked Ms H for more information, but she hadnt 
provided anything. It said it would nevertheless now accept Ms Hs explanation about the 
cash credits to her account. While it was too late to go ahead with the same application, 
Nationwide said it would consider a fresh one  but it wanted to have a full understanding of 
Ms Hs circumstances before making a decision.
Ms H said she was looking for a new property to buy and would make a new application, but 
she would accept the £200 the investigator had proposed.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, explaining why I didnt propose to uphold it. 
I said:
I can understand why Ms H thought there should be no problem with moving her mortgage 
to another property in the way that she wanted. The mortgage documents said the mortgage 
could be ported, she had been paying the mortgage on her own for a year or so without any 
difficulty, she didnt want to borrow any more money or change any of the terms of the 
mortgage, and she wanted to move to a more expensive property.
On the face of it, this arrangement would have resulted in Nationwide reducing its level of 
risk on the mortgage, as the loan-to-value ratio would reduce. Importantly, though, Ms H and 
her son also asked for Mr Hs name to come off the mortgage. That would have been a 
material change. It would have meant Ms H alone was liable to pay the mortgage, and 
Nationwide would no longer have been able to ask Mr H for payments if Ms H was struggling 
to make them.
In deciding this complaint, I must also have in mind when Ms H and Mr H took out this 
mortgage. This is important because the rules of mortgage lending have changed over the 
years, and I have to take account of relevant rules in making my decision. In this case, the 
relevant rules are the Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB) rules. Various changes were 
made to those rules in April 2014, following the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authoritys, 
review of the mortgage market.
The changes included stricter requirements about making sure mortgages were affordable. 
They also included provisions to help borrowers who had taken out their mortgages earlier, 
such as the provision our investigator mentioned, at MCOB 11.7.1. This essentially says 
lenders dont have to carry out an affordability assessment in certain circumstances, and 
they should allow some changes to be made to a mortgage if those changes are in the 
borrowers best interests.
Ms H and Mr H took out their mortgage in 2015  after the new rules came into force. This 
means that MCOB 11.7.1 doesnt apply to their mortgage and it doesnt help them. There is 
provision elsewhere in MCOB for lenders not to carry out an affordability assessment where 
the borrower wants to make a change which isnt likely to be material to the affordability of 
the mortgage. But, as Ive already said, Ms H and Mr H did want to make a material change 
 by removing Mr H from the mortgage.
In these circumstances, while Nationwide had an overarching obligation to keep in mind Ms 
Hs and Mr Hs best interests and treat them fairly, it was right to look at affordability before 
deciding whether or not to agree to their application.
Ive looked carefully at how Nationwide dealt with the application, and I think it was 
reasonable in asking for more information about Ms Hs finances. That was part of its usual 
assessment of affordability and, as Ive already said, it had to carry out that assessment. It 
seems from Nationwides records that it initially understood the cash payments into Ms Hs 
account came from a family member to support Ms H with her household expenditure  so I 
can see why it wanted to know more about that. It also wanted evidence of Ms Hs income, 
which I consider a standard requirement, but which it didnt receive.
I dont find that Nationwide did anything wrong in not taking this application any further, and I 
dont require it to agree to port the mortgage now without making further enquiries. I 
recognise that Ms H was upset at being asked to show where the cash that was being paid 
into her account had come from, but I dont think Nationwide was wrong to ask about it.
In all the circumstances, I dont consider I can fairly require Nationwide to pay any 
compensation and so  while I realise Ms H and Mr H are likely to be disappointed  I dont 
intend to make any order or award.
I invited Ms H and Mr H and Nationwide to let me have any further comments or evidence 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Nationwide said it had nothing more to add. Ms H said she was disappointed with my 
provisional decision, and she had given Nationwide as much information as she could about 
the cash she was receiving for helping people with their shopping during the pandemic. She 
had been paying the mortgage on her own for more than a year, and felt Nationwide had 
treated her very unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise this isnt the decision Ms H was hoping for, Ive come to the 
same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Nationwide wanted to satisfy itself 
that Ms H would be able to afford the mortgage on her own before it made the changes she 
and Mr H had applied for. I find that was fair. The cash payments into Ms Hs account were 
part of its assessment, alongside other information about her circumstances, and I think 
Nationwide was reasonable in asking about that. I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
Ms H can make a fresh application once she has found a property she wants to buy, if she 
hasnt already done so.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman