DRN-4417498
The complaint
Miss M complains about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds handling of her home 
insurance claim. 
Lloyds is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Lloyds has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Lloyds includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In mid-2018, Miss M made a claim under her home insurance policy with Lloyds after a car 
drove through the front of her house. After the emergency services arrived, Miss M says she 
tried calling Lloyds but she had difficulty getting through to it and was told there was nothing 
it could do as it was the weekend. She eventually managed to get the house secured and 
found somewhere to stay.
Lloyds arranged for repairs to be carried out by its approved contractor. Miss M says the 
accident caused relatively little damage to her house. However, the contractor who carried 
out the repairs didnt comply with the agreed specification. After he was asked to rectify his 
work, he caused more damage. 
Lloyds made a number of further attempts to rectify the work, but each time it got worse. 
This resulted in a need for reconstruction of an area three times the size of the original 
damage.
After an outside bricklayer was brought in, the brickwork was repaired within a couple of 
days. The brickwork was completed in October 2020, almost 2.5 years after the accident. 
The internal repairs didnt begin until May 2021. Miss M wasnt initially offered alternative 
accommodation, but this was agreed after she advised Lloyds of an underlying medical 
condition. Miss M says the work wasnt organised and was completed on an ad hoc basis. 
Miss M raised concerns about the quality of the work and the condition the contractors had 
left her property in.
It was agreed that further work needed to be carried out. This was completed in August 
2021. However, Miss M later identified some snagging issues.
In September 2021, Miss M was diagnosed with chronic stress which she says was as a 
result of the issues with the claim. She was signed off from work for the remainder of the 
year. 
In March 2022, Miss M contacted Lloyds about the claim and she was asked to compile 
three lists: defective/poor quality works, outstanding expenses and service or other issues.
Miss M says she didnt contact Lloyds again until October 2022. She sent an email 
accompanying the lists. She says she was hoping for a small settlement rather than forcing 
any formal complaints procedure. However, Lloyds registered a complaint on her behalf. 
In November 2022, representatives from Lloyds and its contractors met with Miss M. She 
says her stress reaction kicked in unexpectedly causing her to lose strength in her legs and 
to have difficulty thinking. Miss M says she felt uncomfortable during the meeting and 
everything on the list was questioned. This was done so much that she accepted most things 
on the list as not being required. Following the meeting, Miss M agreed for a cash settlement 
to cover items removed from the list. 
A representative from Lloyds telephoned Miss M about her complaint and offered her £2,000 
compensation. Miss M felt it was extremely low for what had happened.
Further work was carried out in April 2023 and Miss M told us this was almost completed 
when she brought her complaint to our service. However, Miss M was unhappy with Lloyds 
response to her complaint which she felt was misleading and had trivialised her pain and 
suffering. 
While Miss Ms complaint was with our service, Lloyds offered to increase its compensation 
award to £3,500. However, Miss M didnt think this was enough to put things right.
Our investigator acknowledged that Miss M had received a poor service from Lloyds 
contractors, and this had impacted her health. But he thought Lloyds offer of compensation 
was in line with what our service would typically award under the circumstances.
Miss M disagreed with our investigators outcome. She made a number of comments about 
what had happened during the claim and the impact it had had on her. She said the impact 
of living as shed had to for 4.5 years was underestimated and in no way compensated her 
for what shed been through. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered everything Miss M has told our service, but Ill be keeping my findings to 
what I believe to be the crux of her complaint. I wish to reassure Miss M Ive read and 
considered everything she has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece 
of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I 
need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
To be clear, in this decision I have only considered matters Miss M has complained of up 
until the date of Lloyds final response letter of November 2022.
Lloyds has acknowledged that Miss M was seriously let down by its appointed contractors 
and its handling of the claim. Its also acknowledged that it should have done more to 
support her with the stress caused by the impact damage, given her health conditions, and 
that its communication should have been better.  So, the only matter that remains for me to 
decide is whether the £3,500 Lloyds believes is fair compensation is enough to put things 
right. While Ive considered everything thats happened, I will focus on some of the key 
events Miss M has raised during the claim.
Lloyds says it doesnt have any details of an emergency call being made by Miss M to 
register her claim on the night of the incident in May 2018. Miss M says she was cut off when her call was on hold, and she wasnt able to get through to Lloyds again. So, I think its 
likely that her call to the emergency helpline wasnt noted.
Lloyds says its usual for the emergency services to arrange for a property to be secured in 
these circumstances. I can see that Lloyds refunded Miss M for the cost of securing the 
property, after deducting the policy excess. However, the policy booklet includes a 24 hour 
emergency helpline number and says to call it to arrange for a tradesman to make 
emergency repairs to damaged roofing, locks, doors or windows to secure your home. So, I 
think it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Miss M to find that she couldnt get help 
with this when the incident first happened. And Ive considered the impact of this in the 
amount of compensation I think Lloyds should pay to put things right.
I can see that Lloyds and its contractors visited the property a few days after the incident. 
Lloyds contractor gained access to the property and secured it afterwards. Miss M says 
Lloyds representatives cleared the hallway and stacked reusable bricks neatly in the 
garden. She was helped with retrieving some of her possessions and emptying the fridge 
freezer. Miss M has commented that it was a very well managed experience and made her 
feel better than she had when she arrived. 
Repairs to the property began around two months after the incident, in July 2018 and Miss M 
raised concerns about the standard of work shortly afterwards. Lloyds has acknowledged 
that brickwork was damaged by the initial contractor. It looks like there were issues with 
sourcing brickwork following this. There were months of inactivity during various periods and 
other contractors were involved before Lloyds eventually agreed for a bricklayer Miss M had 
sourced to do the work. The brickwork wasnt completed to a satisfactory standard until 
October 2020, which was almost 2.5 years after Miss M first made her claim. This was 
clearly an unacceptable delay which caused Miss M a lot of frustration and inconvenience. 
The internal repairs began in May 2021. I can see that Lloyds agreed to cover the costs of 
Miss M staying in alternative accommodation while the work was completed. I appreciate 
Miss M thinks she shouldnt have needed to tell Lloyds about her medical condition for 
alternative accommodation to be agreed. However, the terms of the policy only require 
Lloyds to cover the cost of alternative accommodation if the property is uninhabitable.     
Miss M has told us she still had cooking, washing and toilet facilities and I havent seen 
anything to suggest the property was unsafe to live in.
The alternative accommodation was booked for four weeks. But it looks like this didnt allow 
enough time for the works to be completed. And Miss M also raised concerns about the 
quality of the work that was done.  Lloyds offered for Miss M to stay in a hotel, but she says 
this wasnt suitable for her because she needed space to carry out exercises recommended 
by her physiotherapist each evening. Miss M told Lloyds she would have struggled moving 
her possessions into a hotel and would have been uncomfortable eating out every day 
because of the pandemic.
When Miss M returned to the property, she found the tap was left running, the windows were 
left unlocked, and the bathroom had been used without her agreement. This was very 
upsetting for her.
Miss M says that further works were carried out while she was in the property and Covid 
precautions werent taken by the builders, which caused her anxiety. Her belongings were 
packed away in crates which had been moved by the builders, which meant she had 
difficulty accessing them. 
Miss M says shed never experienced issues with her mental health prior to her claim. I dont 
doubt what she says about this. However, the documentation shes provided doesnt mention the cause of her mental health issues. The letter from her doctor says she first 
presented at the GP with symptoms suggestive of anxiety in August 2018. This was around 
three months after the car crashed into her house. Miss M has told us that she was in her 
house at the time and the car ended up being only two metres away from her. Shes also 
told us she was treated for shock at the time. So, Im not persuaded theres enough 
evidence to separate the impact of Lloyds mistakes from the wider impact of the traumatic 
incident of the vehicle hitting her home being the sole cause of her anxiety.
Miss M has told us she had a few months off work from September 2021, which is shortly 
after the second set of internal works were carried out to her home. Miss M says her GP told 
her she was suffering from chronic stress, and this affected her mentally and physically. 
I think the delays and issues Miss M has experienced as a result of the poor handling of her 
claim are likely to have made a big contribution to her health issues. 
I understand that Lloyds poor handling of Miss Ms claim caused disruption to her life over 
an extended period. She says shed been living among storage boxes she hadnt been able 
to enjoy her house because of the work thats needed, and no longer had visitors. 
Miss M was caused sustained distress which affected not only her mental health but her 
physical health too. Shes told us that anxiety has caused her muscular pain and shes 
experienced loss of strength at times when shes been particularly distressed. 
However, Lloyds has offered to pay Miss M £3,500 to compensate her for the impact its poor 
service has had on her. I think this is a reasonable attempt to put things right and it is within 
the range of what our service would typically award under the circumstances. So, whilst I 
understand my answer will be disappointing for Miss M, Im not persuaded to increase this.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Miss M £3,500 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman