DRN-4229173
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs O complain about Qmetric Group Limited trading as Policy Experts (Policy 
Expert) decision to decline a claim for subsidence under their buildings insurance policy. 
Any references to Policy Expert include its agents. 
What happened
In December 2020, Mr B and Mrs O noticed some cracking in their home. They contacted 
Policy Expert who sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor initially believed the 
cracking was as a result of the extension that had been built not being fully connected or tied 
to the main house. Some site investigations were carried out and an arboriculturist was 
appointed, who recommended the removal of some nearby trees. 
Sometime later, after the trees had been removed and the ground had settled, the surveyor 
reviewed things again. They did so and concluded the cause of the movement was due to 
the foundations of the extension not being sufficiently deep. The claim was declined, with 
Policy Expert relying on the poor workmanship exclusion.   
Mr B and Mrs O complained. They were unhappy trees had been removed unnecessarily (in 
their view) and with the decision to decline the claim. They arranged for their own structural 
engineer to inspect their property and shared this report with Policy Expert. It was 
considered by Policy Experts chartered surveyor but didnt alter the claims decision 
reached. Mr B and Mrs O asked us to look into what had happened. 
Their concerns were considered by one of our investigators, but she didnt think Policy 
Expert had acted unfairly in declining the claim. She said Policy Expert had demonstrated 
the foundations of the extension were not sufficiently deep to meet recommended 
guidelines. Mr B and Mrs O didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the information available, Ive reached the same outcome as our 
investigator did, and Ill set out why. In reaching my decision, while Ive carefully considered 
all the information provided, Ive summarised this where appropriate. I hope neither side 
considers this a discourtesy, but rather a reflection of our informal nature
Its not in dispute Mr B and Mrs Os home is experiencing some movement which has 
caused damage. Im sure this is a very worrying experience. However, in order for me to 
decide Policy Expert had unfairly declined their claim, Id need to be persuaded the damage 
to their home was caused by an insured event. With this in mind, Ive considered the policy 
exclusion Policy Expert are relying on when declining this claim, and Ive copied this below:
13. Poor workmanship
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials (including 
latent defects) or poor design
Policy Expert says the expert reports it received, (which aligned with the opinion of its 
surveyor), indicated the extension had been poorly designed. It said when the extension was 
built the foundations were not sufficiently deep and also did not take account of nearby trees. 
There was also a suggestion the extension was not adequately tied to the main house.
Ive first considered the reports instructed by Policy Expert. The notes from the surveyor 
included in in the initial report recommended further investigation, which led to the site 
inspections being carried out. The site inspections included the drilling of boreholes which 
identified foundations dug to a depth of 380mm. And the arboriculturist report identified a 
number of trees which could be impacting the property and contributing to the movement. I 
think it was a reasonable step, in the face of this information, for Policy Expert to arrange for 
the trees to be removed. It was also appropriate to give the ground time to settle before 
considering everything again and concluding the claim should be declined. However, I can 
understand Mr B and Mrs Os disappointment when Policy Expert told them this. 
Mr B and Mrs O arranged their own inspection. Ive considered the findings set out by the 
structural engineer they appointed. The report sets out the extension was built by the 
previous owner and had been standing for more than 10 years before any damage began to 
appear. It also notes the findings set out in other reports relating to the high-volume change 
potential of the soil and describes the steps Mr B had taken to redirect rainwater in a bid to 
reduce the impact on the soil. The engineer appointed by Mr B and Mrs O agreed the depth 
of the foundations were not in accordance with current good practice, nor with minimum 
Local Authority Building Regulation requirements.. 
Policy Expert then asked a chartered surveyor to review the findings of the reports. His 
overall conclusion was the foundations at 380mm were not in line with Building Regulations 
and, when the extension was built, the foundations were not sufficiently deep to take into 
account the presence of the nearby trees. His overall conclusion was that any movement the 
property was experiencing was as a result of the improperly constructed foundation. 
I acknowledge its possible the steps Mr B and Mrs O took to redirect the rainwater might 
have contributed to a change of the soils moisture input. Im also aware their structural 
engineer said the property seemed to be experiencing subsidence. Mr B and Mrs O also 
provided me with proof that planning permission had retrospectively been granted for the 
extension. However, the planning permission documents dont certify that the extension 
complied with Building Regulations. 
My role is to decide if Policy Expert acted unfairly in declining the claim. Having considered 
all of the available evidence, I dont think it did. As Ive set out, the expert reports 
consistently set out the foundations of the extension were not sufficiently deep. I dont think 
the fact the extension stood for a number a year is, in itself, a sufficient reason to say the 
claim should be accepted by Policy Expert. There is clear evidence to support the conclusion 
reached by Policy Expert the depth of the foundations was not sufficient to comply with 
Building Regulations or best practice, nor did the depth take into account nearby vegetation. 
While I am sorry to disappoint Mr B and Mrs O, the available evidence leads me to conclude 
the damage to their home is as a result of defective foundations and Policy Expert has acted 
in line with the policy terms in declining their claim. Im therefore not going to require Policy 
Expert to do anything more. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman