DRN-2449985
The complaint
Mr B complains that the car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. The car broke down within the first 
six months and hasnt been able to be used since. Mr B wants to either have the car 
repaired at no cost to him or to reject the car.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr B acquired a car through a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Moneybarn can 
be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car 
and what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the 
circumstances.
The car Mr B acquired was over nine years old and had been driven over 97,000 
miles at acquisition. Therefore, it would be reasonable to accept that it would have 
suffered some wear and tear. It is also possible that parts could fail on a car of this 
age and mileage shortly after acquisition even if the faults werent present at the 
point of supply. Mr B was able to drive the car for over three months and 7,000 miles 
before the issue arose and this needs to be taken into account.
Mr Bs car failed in early March 2020. Under the regulations it would be generally 
expected that when faults arise within the first six months the onus is on the supplier 
to show that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The dealer 
inspected the car and suggested the failure was due to low oil level and therefore 
negligence by Mr B. However, two other independent inspections took place which 
both said the oil levels and coolants levels were correct and I have placed more 
weight on these and so I do not accept the findings of the dealer.
The independent inspection arranged by Moneybarn took place in June 2020. This 
said that the oil and coolant levels were correct. It noted visible oil contamination 
throughout the engine bay which it said appeared to be longstanding and from 
multiple sources. It said the engine needed to be stripped down to determine the 
exact cause of the fault and extent of the damage but said that the engine appeared 
to have suffered internal damage. Given the time Mr B had the car and the mileage 
covered it didnt conclude on the balance of probability that the issues causing the 
car to fail were present at the point of supply. 
While I note the conclusions of the June report, as it says that further investigation is 
needed to identify the cause of the fault there is uncertainty about the reason for 
failure. Given the cause of failure hasnt been determined for certain then it follows 
there must be some uncertainty about whether the failure was due to a faulty part or 
if the car wasnt sufficiently durable. I also note that the inspection report says that 
there was evidence of long standing oil contamination. As Mr B had only had the car 
for just over three months, this suggests there were issues present or developing at 
the point of supply.
The inspection report carried out in August 2020 concluded that the engine had failed 
prematurely. It said that the issues wouldnt have developed solely in the period of 
Mr Bs use and considered the issues were developing at the point of supply. It didnt 
consider the issues were caused by any fault on the part of Mr B and believed the car 
shouldnt have failed at that time. It said the car wasnt fit for purpose.
While the reports are conflicting, there are common themes. First, that there was no 
suggestion of Mr B not maintaining the car or the issue being due to his fault. There 
was also the comment about the longstanding issue with the oil and the second 
reports comments about issues having been developing at the point of supply. There 
was also the need for further investigation noted in order to determine the exact 
cause and issue. Given the information in the reports I find it more likely than not that 
there were issues that were present or developing at the point of supply which 
resulted in the engine failing after around three months. I note the comment that the 
engine failed prematurely, and this suggests the car wasnt sufficiently durable at 
acquisition. Because of this, I do not find the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
As, on balance, I do not find that the car was of satisfactory quality at supply, I find that 
Moneybarn is required to provide a reasonable remedy. In this case the cost of repair is 
unknown, and I accept it could be possible that the repair is uneconomical. Therefore, I find 
it reasonable that the car is collected from Mr B at no cost and that Moneybarn either have 
the car repaired at no cost to Mr B, or if this isnt reasonable, then it accepts the rejection of 
the car.
Mr B hasnt been able to use the car since March 2020. Therefore, he should have any 
payments he made refunded and any other payments not made but due for this period 
waived. Mr Bs credit file should also be amended so that there is no adverse information 
recorded regarding this agreement. He should also be refunded the cost of the recovery of 
the car (£180) along with interest.
If it is decided that the car will be rejected Mr Bs agreement should be cancelled with 
nothing further owing. If Mr B had paid a deposit I would expect this to be refunded along 
with interest however as the sales invoice and agreement show there was no deposit paid 
no further action is required regarding that.
Putting things right
As Moneybarn hasnt had an opportunity to repair the vehicle, Im recommending that 
Moneybarn:
collect and repair the vehicle at no cost to Mr B;
refund Mr B £180 along with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement for recovery costs; refund Mr B any monthly payments made from 5 March 2020 to the date of 
settlement along with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement and waive any outstanding payments for this period; and 
remove any adverse information relating to this agreement from Mr Bs credit file.
As the repair will likely mean the replacement of the engine, Moneybarn can decide whether 
it considers the repair reasonable and if not it can allow rejection of the vehicle also. If 
Moneybarn accepts rejection it should:
collect the vehicle at no cost to Mr B;
end Mr Bs agreement with nothing further to pay; 
refund Mr B £180 along with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement for recovery costs;
refund Mr B his monthly payments from the 5 March 2020 to the date of settlement 
along with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file in relation to this agreement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should take the 
actions set out above to remedy this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman