DRN-4492337
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a personal loan Lendable Limited (Lendable) which he says it 
irresponsibly provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and s shouldnt have been 
provided to him.
Background
Mr H has also complained about a credit card that Lendable provided to him. But were 
looking at the credit card complaint separately and this decision only concerns Mr Hs loan 
with Lendable.
Lendable provided Mr H with a loan for £6,000.00 in May 2021. This loan had an APR of 
35.36% and the total amount to be repaid of £2,497.36, which included interest fees and 
charges of £5,860.45 (comprised of interest of £5,420.45 and a loan arrangement fee of 
£440), was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £197.33 and a final instalment of 
217.98.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr H and Lendable had told us. And she didnt think 
that that Lendable acted unfairly when deciding to provide this loan to Mr H and so didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Lendable needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr H could afford to make his repayments before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans irresponsibly.
Lendable says it approved Mr Hs application after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on 
a credit search it carried out on Mr H which showed he had defaulted on credit accounts, but  
these had taken place some time ago. And Mr Hs active commitments were relatively well 
maintained at the time of his application. This included the fact that he was only using 
around a third of the limits on his existing revolving credit accounts. 
In Lendables view all of the information it gathered showed that Mr H could afford to make 
the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr H has said he was already in 
struggling and couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and Lendable have said. 
Its clear that Lendable did obtain a reasonable amount of information before it decided to 
proceed with Mr Hs application. And this information does appear to suggest that the loan 
repayments were affordable for Mr H. What is also key to me is that Mr H said that he was 
going to use this loan to consolidate some of his existing debts. 
Lendable could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. It wont have known whether Mr H would go on to re-establish balances on any 
consolidated accounts  all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on assurances 
from Mr H that the balances in question would be repaid with these funds. So Im satisfied 
that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to, at the very least, reduce 
Mr Hs existing balances. 
Additionally, as this was a first loan Lendable was providing to Mr H, there wasnt a history of  
Mr H obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way he 
committed to either. And Lendable was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr H would be left 
in a better position as a result of this too.
I accept that Mr Hs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Lendable obtained. For example, Mr H says that 
he was behind on priority bills. But I have to think about what Lendable knew or ought 
reasonably to have known, not what Mr H is now telling me. This is especially as any recent 
arrears on the part of Mr Hs utility accounts did not show up on any of Lendables searches. 
I do accept its possible that if Lendable had gone into the depth of checks Mr H appears to 
be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements  it might have reached a 
different answer. But the key here thing is that I dont think the circumstances of the lending 
here warranted obtaining bank statements. 
Given the circumstances here, Id expect Lendable to have a reasonable idea of Mr Hs 
income and committed non-discretionary spending, which it did have here as a result of the 
checks that it did carry out, rather than a complete review of Mr Hs finances. Equally, as         
Mr H hasnt provided anything which clearly demonstrates further checks would have shown 
the loan payments were clearly unaffordable, its difficult for me to in any event reach this 
conclusion. 
I should also explain that it is only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a firm did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended into the level of checks Mr H is suggesting. As this is the case, I dont think 
that Lendable did anything wrong when providing this loan to Mr H - it carried out 
proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
I know that Mr H has queried how it is possible for us not to uphold this complaint when hes 
had a separate complaint upheld. I can understand why Mr H might find it strange that hes 
received different outcomes on complaints which he perceives to be materially the same. But its important for me to explain that we consider complaints on an individual basis and 
looking at the individual circumstances. As Ive already explained, what will constitute a 
proportionate check will very much depend on the particular circumstances of the individual 
application. A proportionate check, even for the same customer, could look different for 
different applications. 
Furthermore, Im not bound by the outcomes reached by other case handlers on different 
cases. Ultimately, Im required to consider the facts of a case and reach my own conclusion. 
So the outcomes on Mr Hs other case cannot and do not bind me into reaching the same 
conclusion on this case. That said, consistency is important and with a view to providing 
some clarity and reassurance to Mr H, it might help for me to explain that there are some key 
differences between this complaint and Mr Hs other one. 
Having looked at Mr Hs other case, its clear that he was advanced a number of loans, at 
higher interest rates which resulted in higher costs. In particular, the earlier loans which I 
accept were for lower amounts were around the time of Mr Hs default. These differing facts 
impacted on what it would have been proportionate for the lender to do and find out in that 
case at the relevant times.
So while Im not required to replicate the outcomes reached by our other ombudsmen, 
nonetheless I dont consider that my answer here is incompatible or inconsistent with the 
one Mr H received on his other case, notwithstanding the differing outcomes.    
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lendable didnt treat Mr H 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing this loan to him. And Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for  Mr H  especially bearing in 
mind what hes said about his other complaint. But I hope hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman