DRN-3240727
The complaint
Mr M and Ms A complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly 
declined their claim for escape of water damage under their home insurance policy. And that 
RSA unfairly cancelled that policy.
RSA underwrite the policy. Since they made the decision to decline the claim and cancel the 
policy, they are the business to whom this complaint must be addressed. Ill refer to RSA 
throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr M called RSA on 26 February 2021 to report damage following a leak. He said the 
bathroom floor and kitchen ceiling had been damaged. He told RSA a plumber had located 
the leak and repaired it. He wanted to claim for the water damage caused by the leak. RSA 
asked him to provide a quote for the repairs.
Mr M provided a quote for £10,200 for the repair work. He spoke to RSA about the claim on 
26 March 2021. He told them that when the leak had been repaired a new leak had been 
found behind the bath. He said this had caused additional damage. But that as both of the 
leaks damaged the same area it was hard to say which leak had caused which damage.
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to review the claim. They visited the property in early April 
2021. As they reported some concerns about the claim, RSA appointed another business to 
complete a review of the claim. That business held a video call with Mr M on 15 April 2021. 
On 16 April 2021 Mr M wrote to the business hed had the video call with to tell them he 
would be happy to arrange an independent survey of the water damage. 
On 21 April 2021, Mr M was told that RSA needed to conduct a further inspection of the 
damage. He didnt reply. A second email was sent on 6 May 2021 telling Mr M that he 
needed to allow an inspection or action may have to be taken on the policy. RSA appointed 
a surveyor but said that Mr M wouldnt allow them to carry out the inspection. 
In June 2021, Mr M complained to RSA. He was unhappy: 
with the loss adjusters attitude
with the attitude of the video interviewer, and 
because the claim had been declined and the policy cancelled.
RSA wrote to Mr M on 17 June 2021. They said that the policy would be cancelled in 14 
days. RSA also sent their final response letter covering Mr Ms complaint on 21 June 2021.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint. They apologised that their loss adjuster had caused upset. 
But said that as they werent party to the conversation that took place they couldnt comment 
further. They explained that the role of the video interviewer had been to complete an in-
depth review of the claim. And that meant he had to go through all the details of what 
happened so he could review that against the terms and conditions of the policy. They didnt 
agree that the video interviewer had behaved badly.RSA said that since receiving the complaint, the business which conducted the video 
interview had written to Mr M because they felt hed submitted an exaggerated claim. They 
said that the interviewer had felt that the quote appeared to cover full renovations, rather 
than repairs to the damaged areas. And that Mr M had said that he hadnt read the quote 
himself but had just sent it in to RSA. RSA said that the interviewer had spoken to Mr Ms 
contractor. And that hed said that Mr M had been present when he prepared the quote. And 
that hed discussed all of the items included in the quote with Mr M at the time. RSA said that 
an approved surveyor had to attend the property to complete a full report and scope of the 
damage. But that Mr M hadnt allowed the surveyor theyd appointed to visit the property. 
RSA said that Mr Ms refusal to cooperate was reviewed and that the reviewers agreed that 
the approved surveyors must be allowed to inspect the damage in order to confirm any 
insured damage. As this hadnt happened, RSA told Mr M and Ms A that their policy would 
be cancelled. They also said that Mr M and Ms A would have to inform future insurers about 
the cancellation. 
Mr M and Ms A brought their complaint to this service. They said theyd researched the 
surveyors RSA had wanted to use and had noted that theyd received very poor reviews. So 
they didnt want them to survey the damage in their house. They also said that theyd found 
terrible reviews for the business which had conducted the video interview.
Mr M and Ms A also said they would like the loss assessors professional qualifications to be 
confirmed, as they felt she was unprofessional and rude.
Mr M and Ms A didnt consider that RSA had considered their claim fairly. Or that they had 
the right to cancel their policy. They said that theyd not replaced the home insurance that 
had been cancelled because RSA hadnt told them exactly what they should tell a new 
insurance company.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She felt that it had been 
reasonable for RSA to arrange the video interview. And that the interviewer would have to 
ask for full details of the claim. She didnt consider that RSA had done anything wrong when 
they declined the claim and cancelled the policy. She said that the terms and conditions of 
the policy required a further inspection to be carried out. She also felt that RSA had acted 
fairly when theyd cancelled the policy. This was because Mr M and Ms A had failed to 
provide the information needed for the claim to be successful. 
Mr M and Ms A didnt agree with our investigator. They felt RSA shouldve discussed the 
claim with them. And that they couldve discussed which parts of the claim they werent able 
to cover. They didnt consider it was fair that RSA had required receipts for the work theyd 
had carried out. They also felt that RSA could have arranged for a different surveyor than the 
one suggested to carry out the second inspection.
Mr M and Ms A asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint. So it has come to me for 
that review. 
Mr M provided further information. He said that RSA couldnt know that the claim was due to 
wear and tear as they hadnt inspected the damage. So he felt it was only their opinion, not 
fact. He also felt that RSA had slandered him.
He also said that hed wanted to arrange an independent surveyor. But that RSA hadnt 
allowed this. Mr M also felt that RSA hadnt cancelled their policy in line with their stated 
process. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Im not satisfied that Mr M and Ms A provided 
enough evidence to show an insured event had taken place. And therefore I consider that 
RSA have acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. Ill explain why.
Before I start I need to explain that my role is not to evaluate every point that Mr M has made 
or to respond to every question Mr M has raised. Instead, my role is to look at the crux of the 
complaint in order to assess whether RSA did anything wrong. And if they did, what they 
need to do to put things right. But Id like to reassure Mr M that I have considered all of the 
points hes made in making my decision.
Did RSA act fairly when they declined to cover the claim?
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must establish that they have a 
valid claim. In essence, the policyholder must show that an insured event occurred which 
caused damage or a loss. Its not the insurers job to establish the claim on the policyholders 
behalf. If the policyholder is unable to meet this requirement the claim will fail at that stage. It 
is only once the policyholder has established a valid claim that the insurer is required to 
demonstrate that a policy exclusion applies to defeat it. Therefore, until and unless Mr M and 
Ms A have established a valid claim, it isnt RSAs responsibility to establish what caused the 
leaks. 
Mr M and Ms As policy provided cover for damage caused to their property by a range of 
insured events. The events were detailed in the policy and are commonly found in most 
policies on the market. 
The cost of repairing the damage caused by the leaks isnt covered by the policy simply 
because they happened whilst the policy was in force. It would only be covered if Mr M and 
Ms A can show that the leaks occurred due to an insured event. 
From what Ive seen, Mr M and Ms A dont know exactly when the leaks occurred. And they 
dont know what caused them. 
From RSAs business file, I can see that when Mr M called to report the first leak, RSA noted 
that he didnt know when the leak had first occurred:
I asked member what was leaking but he said some pipes - member did not know. I asked 
member when did he notice the water damage and member said he does not know - it took 
me couple of mins for him to actually give me an estimate date - he just kept on saying some 
time then he said about 2 or 3 or 4 weeks ago. 
The loss adjuster who first inspected the property also noted that Mr M had been evasive 
about the cause of the leak. And that the leak appeared to have been going on for some 
time. They said: The policyholder would not give a straight answer to the repairs, cause of 
the damage or areas of damage.  They also said: We pushed the policyholder multiple 
times to establish the cause and the repair particularly as there seemed to be a lot of non-
claim related damage. The policyholder advised that the pipe had been temporarily fixed but 
that it was not the contractor who quoted that had repaired this. We advised the policyholder 
that we would need to see a copy of the plumbing invoice to confirm the source of the leak 
and also to confirm that it had been repaired. The loss adjuster also felt that the water 
damage wouldve been obvious fairly quickly and that the policyholder didnt do anything to 
mitigate the damage.The business which conducted the video interview also felt that Mr M had been: vague, 
evasive and pushy at times during their interview. They said that Mr M wouldnt: provide 
direct answers to questions about the cause and the extent of the damage. They said he 
couldnt explain why the damage was as extensive as it appeared. For example, no 
explanation was given about why the bathroom sink was missing. 
The business which conducted the video interview also noted that Mr M couldnt provide an 
invoice from the plumber whod fixed the leaks. And that he didnt have any details for the 
plumber. They also said that the £10,200 quote for repairs included items that wouldnt be 
necessary to reinstate the water damage. At the end of the video interview they said that no 
decision on the claim could be made unless RSAs surveyor could inspect the damage and 
report back. They explained this was because the cause of the leaks had yet to be 
established. And the extent of the damage appeared excessive, with the lack of apparent 
mitigation also being a concern. The business also spoke to the builder whod provided the 
£10,200 quote. He hadnt confirmed the cause of the leaks. But he told them that Mr M had 
been present when he attended to prepare the quote. And that everything in the quote had 
been discussed with Mr M and included at his request.
Mr M said that that he was happy to provide an independent surveyors report. He said that 
RSA wouldnt accept that. He asked them to explain where in the policy terms it ruled out a 
policyholder getting an independent survey done.
The business which conducted the video interview said they replied to Mr Ms offer to explain 
that RSAs approved surveyor was required. But that Mr M could also appoint his own 
surveyor at his expense if he wanted to. They also told Mr M that his builder had confirmed 
to them that hed been fully aware of what the quote covered. And asked him to explain the 
contradiction, as Mr M had told them he didnt know what was in the quote. They also told Mr 
M that the policy conditions required a policyholder to cooperate with a claim, quoting the 
following from the policy document:
Well arrange for the damage to be inspected by one of our representatives or an 
independent loss adjuster or other expert and You must give us any information and 
assistance we require.
They said that Mr M didnt respond to this email. Or the follow up email they sent on 6 May 
2021. That email explained that if Mr M didnt allow the approved surveyor to assess the 
damage, it could lead to cancellation of the policy. The 6 May 2021 email gave Mr M seven 
days to respond, but he didnt reply. So the claim was referred to underwriters. They agreed 
that the approved surveyor had to be allowed to inspect the damage. After this, Mr M 
received a letter telling him the policy would be cancelled.
Having considered all of the information provided, Ive found no evidence that RSA acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. They didnt prevent Mr M from using his own surveyor as he stated. 
From what Ive seen, they took reasonable steps to assess the claim. This included trying to 
verify what the plumber had done and what it had cost. I acknowledge that Mr M doesnt 
consider that the loss adjuster was professional. But Ive seen no evidence of that. I also 
acknowledge that Mr M found poor reviews for both the loss adjusters and the video 
interviewers business. But Ive seen no evidence that the loss adjuster carried out a poor 
assessment. And Ive seen no evidence that the video interviewer acted unprofessionally or 
unreasonably. Mr M couldve provided an independent surveyors assessment of the 
damage, alongside that of RSAs approved surveyor, but he didnt. So from what Ive seen, 
its never been established what caused the leaks. Without confirmation that the leaks were 
caused by an insured event, RSA couldnt cover the damage. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to conclude that RSA did anything wrong when they declined to cover the 
claim.I also cant agree that RSA shouldve discussed which parts of the claim they werent able to 
cover with Mr M and Ms A. This is because I dont consider that Mr M and Ms A ever 
provided evidence that an insured event had occurred. And I cant agree that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for RSA to required receipts for the work that had been carried out. This is a 
completely normal requirement. 
Was the policy cancelled fairly?
Mr M said that the terms and conditions of the policy stated that RSA would contact the 
policyholder at their last known address and seek to resolve the matter with you if a solution 
cant be agreed, we may cancel your policy by giving you 14 days notice. He said that this 
step wasnt carried out. And that no one from RSA contacted him to try to resolve the matter. 
He felt that RSA had broken their own rules. 
In cancelling the policy, RSA referred to the policys terms and conditions. These state that 
they will:
arrange for the damage to be inspected by one of our representatives or an independent 
loss adjuster or other expert.
They also state:
We may also cancel your policy if we identify serious grounds for doing so, including but not 
limited to:
failure to provide us with information weve requested thats directly relevant to your cover or 
any claim 
In these circumstances wed contact you at your last known address and seek to resolve the 
matter with you. If a solution cant be agreed, we may cancel your policy by giving you 14 
days notice.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions, Im satisfied that they require the policyholder to 
allow the damage to be inspected before a claim can be covered. RSA are entitled to use an 
approved surveyor of their choice, so I dont agree that Mr M and Ms A shouldve been given 
the choice of a different surveyor. Both the business which conducted the video interview 
and the underwriters confirmed that the claim couldnt be progressed without an inspection. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr M was made aware of this aspect of the terms and 
conditions.
The terms also state that the policy can be cancelled if the policyholder fails to provide 
information needed for the claim. In these circumstances RSA must provide a 14-day 
warning before cancelling the policy. From what Ive seen, this is exactly what RSA did. 
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that RSA cancelled the policy fairly. 
I dont know if its still the case that Mr M and Ms A havent replaced their home insurance 
because RSA didnt tell them exactly what they should tell a new insurance company. But I 
note that they are required to tell any new insurer that theyve previously had a policy 
cancelled by the insurer.
Ive seen no evidence of what caused the leak. So I cant know whether or not RSA were 
correct to suggest that the leak was due to wear and tear. But from what Ive seen, they did 
inspect the damage once. And they also tried to arrange for a second inspection. I 
acknowledge that Mr M has said that when RSA felt the leak was due to wear and tear it was: only their opinion, not fact. And that they had slandered him. But Ive no evidence of 
slander. And I cant hold RSA responsible for the cause of the leak not being identified, as I 
explained earlier.
Overall, I consider that RSA attempted to properly assess the damage to check whether an 
insured event had occurred, meaning the claim could be covered. So I dont uphold the 
complaint. Im satisfied that RSA acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy 
conditions, when they declined Mr M and Ms As claim and cancelled their policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman