DRN-4004443
The complaint
Mrs H has complained Lloyds Bank plc wont refund money she lost from her account as a 
result of a scam.
What happened
In 2022 Mrs H received a call from someone stating they were from a payment transfer 
company (who Ill call T) where she held an account. She was told she needed to make her 
account safe from potential fraud as her account details for her Lloyds account were known.
Mrs H was understandably concerned, felt slightly panicked and rushed into taking action. 
She ended up making three payments. One was a transfer from her Lloyds account to her 
account with T of £2,562. She also made two payments to her account with T using her 
Lloyds credit card of £902.70 and £351.05. This left only pennies in her Lloyds current 
account.
When Mrs H was blocked from using her account with T, she realised she was a victim of a 
scam. She called Lloyds quickly after what had happened to ask them to refund the 
payments shed made. They wouldnt refund her as they felt there was no reason for them to 
detect her payment behaviour as unusual. They were also aware that Mrs H had transferred 
the money to an account in her own name which meant they had no liability under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model code.
Mrs H brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator noted Mrs H had carried out previous transactions to her account with T, 
had also made payments of large amounts and left little money in her current account. He 
didnt feel it would be fair to ask Lloyds to refund Mrs H.
Mrs Hs representatives had previously drawn our services attention to codes and 
regulations around payments like these and continued to believe Lloyds should have done 
more in the way of issuing warnings to Mrs H about what she was about to do.
Her complaint has now been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mrs H made and authorised the payments. Mrs H knew the reasons 
why she was being asked to transfer money. At the stage she was making these payments, 
she believed she was taking urgent action to keep her own money safe. She believed once 
this had been done, shed be able to access her account with T and was distraught to find 
this wasnt the case.
I dont dispute Mrs H was scammed but under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Im 
satisfied the transactions were authorised.
Its also accepted that Lloyds has an obligation to follow Mrs Hs instructions. So in the first 
instance Mrs H is presumed liable for her loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Lloyds 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mrs H fell victim to a sophisticated scam. Unfortunately safe account scams  which is what 
this was  are not massively unusual. Mrs H realises how this happened as she responded 
to a fake message supposedly from the NHS warning her that she needed to take a Covid 
test. This allowed fraudsters to know Mrs H had an account with Lloyds and meant they 
could tailor their approach to her and make it believable. 
I know Lloyds have said theyd have expected Mrs H to undertake some checks to ensure 
who was calling her was genuine. I agree this would be ideal, but I dont think this takes into 
account the stress that can be caused by these kind of calls, and the panic theyre meant to 
engender in the people who receive them. 
Lloyds has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions, but 
Mrs H wasnt doing anything sufficiently unusual to trigger any warnings.
And I can see why they said this. Mrs H made a single payment from her current account to 
her account with T. Whilst she didnt normally send as much as £2,500, it wasnt unusual for 
her to send regular payments of £300-400 to T.
I note Mrs H by making one payment almost emptied her current account. I have considered 
whether this should have been sufficient for Lloyds to have taken action as this would mirror 
what can happen in a safe account scam. However, Mrs H had on at least three occasions in 
the previous three months left little credit in her account.
Overall I dont believe the activity carried out by Mrs H  both on her current account and 
using her credit card  should have been seen as sufficiently unusual to merit any warnings 
being presented to Mrs H. 
I also note the payments Mrs H sent went to her account with T. So I appreciate the point 
Lloyds has made that she transferred money to her own account.
Ive asked Mrs H why she hasnt followed up with a complaint to T as it appears to me that was where her money was lost. Understandably perhaps, she found it slightly easier to 
proceed with her complaint against Lloyds. Her correspondence with T, which has been 
shared with our service, shows that the caller told Mrs H they were calling from T. Although 
its the case that Mrs Hs evidence also confirmed the call was from Lloyds. I appreciate that 
scam phone calls can really catch someone off-guard and its difficult to recall all the details 
afterwards.
I appreciate how distressing it must have been to be a victim of a scam and theres no 
dispute that Mrs H has lost out here. However I dont believe it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask Lloyds to refund Mrs H.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Lloyds 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman