DRN-3693993
The complaint
Miss J complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the direct debits 
she paid for her TV licence between 2016 and 2020, as she says it is obliged to do under the 
Direct Debit Guarantee.
What happened
Miss J says that she is entitled to a refund of the direct debits under the Direct Debit 
Guarantee. She says her ex-partner set up the direct debit in 2016 when someone knocked 
on the door, but she then found out it was unnecessary based on the channels she watched. 
Miss J cancelled the direct debit in December 2020 and says she wants all the payments 
refunded. She adds that Halifax used several excuses to avoid repaying the money and she 
was unhappy with how it handled the situation.
Halifax apologised for the service it provided and paid Miss J £35 for that, plus £19 for her 
call costs. However, it refused her direct debit indemnity claim as it said Miss J did not meet 
the criteria for the scheme. It said not needing the service that is being paid for is not a 
viable reason to process a direct debit indemnity claim and advised her to contact the TV 
Licensing company.
Miss J explained that she had not authorised her ex-partner to set up the direct debit and, 
therefore, she said, she did meet the criteria for the direct debit indemnity as Halifax should 
protect against unauthorised transactions.
Halifax confirmed the direct debit had been set up electronically on 23 June 2016 via the 
Automated Direct Debit Instruction Service (AUDDIS) and that the TV Licensing company 
held the mandate. It added that the company would only disclose details of the mandate to 
the named licence holder.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Halifax had complied with industry guidelines and no error had been made in declining 
Miss Js refund request. He also found the compensation Halifax paid was fair and 
reasonable.
Miss J responded to say, in summary, that she did not set the direct debit up via AUDDIS 
and so her initial complaint stands. She adds that the TV Licensing company has failed to do 
its due diligence and Halifax should take ownership of this as part of the Direct Debit 
Guarantee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss J initially complained that shed been paying for a service she hadnt needed, Im 
satisfied that Halifax correctly applied the guidance in the Direct Debit Guarantee. This says 
it protects the consumer if there is an error in the payment of your Direct Debit, for instance 
if a payment is taken on the incorrect date, or the wrong amount is collected. It cannot be 
used to address contractual disputes between you and the billing organisation.
As Miss J was not claiming there was a payment error, and Halifax has now provided 
evidence of the direct debit instruction, I find Halifax acted fairly and reasonably by declining 
Miss Js claim initially.
Miss J now says she did not authorise the direct debit mandate, so Halifax has attempted to 
obtain a copy of it from the TV Licensing company. As it was told that only the mandate 
holder could request it, Miss J made the same request. Unfortunately, the TV Licensing 
company said it no longer had that information, but I dont find that to be unreasonable given 
the passage of time.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as some of it is here, I must make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
I accept Miss J now says the direct debit was set up by her ex-partner without her authority, 
but I consider its likely that she agreed to it at the time. I say that because:
Her initial complaint was that the licence was not required, rather than the direct debit 
was unauthorised;
Miss J can remember the interaction and being made aware that payment for a TV 
licence was required;
The TV Licensing company was obliged to give advance notice of collection dates 
and amounts, and Miss J does not appear to have questioned this at the time;
The direct debits were taken from her account for over four years before Miss J 
cancelled them in December 2020. It then took a further 15 months for her to 
complain that they were wrongly debited;
Even if a copy of the original mandate had been provided, the AUDDIS system did 
not require a wet signature, so could not have been used to prove (or disprove) 
authority;
In summary, based on all the evidence I have seen, I cannot conclude Halifax has done 
anything wrong by declining Miss Js claim under the Direct Debit Guarantee.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman