DRN-2296864
The complaint
Ms O complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in dealing with her legal costs claimed under a legal expenses insurance 
policy. She wants a higher hourly rate to be paid.
What happened
Ms O had a legal expenses insurance policy with DAS as part of her household insurance. 
She made a claim under the policy and wanted to instruct her own choice of solicitors to deal 
with an employment dispute. DAS only offered to pay the court guideline hourly rate paid to 
solicitors in the local area where Ms O lived for work done at the appropriate level. Ms O felt 
it should pay the hourly rate set out by central London courts when assessing legal bills. She 
argued that only being able to instruct local specialists would put her at a disadvantage as 
the other side could afford the best lawyers, and said that she was paying the full costs 
herself. Ms O changed solicitors and DAS offered a lower court guideline rate.
Ms O complained to DAS. It said that it was fair to offer to pay the court guideline rate where 
Ms O lived, but it accepted that it had previously offered to pay an hourly rate of £267 for a 
Grade A fee-earner. It pointed out that it had negotiated with Ms Os choices of solicitor, but 
the complexity of her case didnt justify using a solicitor based in the City of London, 
particularly as the law was the same throughout England. DAS said it had offered to pay up 
to £267 an hour to Ms Os first choice of solicitor, which was the court guideline rate where 
Ms Os choice of solicitor was based, as opposed to the rate where Ms O lived. DAS was 
willing to stand by its offer to pay up to £267 an hour for Ms Os current choice of solicitor for 
work done at the appropriate level of fee-earner. DAS also pointed out the overall cap on 
legal fees was £50,000 so the higher the hourly rate, the less work would be covered.
Ms O complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She said that insurers didnt have to agree to pay whatever rate solicitors wished. The policy 
said it would only cover reasonable and necessary costs, and if it meant Ms O could still 
instruct a solicitor, this was fair and reasonable in the investigators judgement. She pointed 
out neither solicitors involved had said only a City law firm could deal with the case and 
thought it was likely other law firms could act. The investigator thought DAS offer was fair 
and reasonable, and it didnt need to do more.
Ms O disagreed. She said that she couldnt find a solicitor to act for £267 plus VAT an hour 
and she believed only a lawyer in the City could deal with the claim. Ms O said shed 
changed lawyers as the first set had made mistakes and wanted DAS to pay more.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that DAS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The core of Ms Os complaint is about the hourly rate offered by DAS. Within the terms and 
conditions of the policy, which Ms O accepted when she took it out (and didnt cancel within 
the cooling off period), it says that if a policyholder chooses their own legal representation, 
the most DAS would pay is what it wouldve paid under its standard terms of appointment. 
DAS has confirmed its standard rate is £100 an hour. However, there are times when the 
standard fee simply isnt enough to get an external lawyer to agree to act, and DAS 
acknowledged that Ms Os claim was likely to need such a lawyer.
It was fair and reasonable for DAS to agree to review the hourly rate it offered to both firms 
Ms O approached. The court guideline rates are generally accepted as an appropriate 
alternative as they represent the amount a party would be likely to pay if they were ordered 
to pay costs; the client may have to pay the excess if they choose a more expensive 
solicitor. Saying that work will only be paid if undertaken at the appropriate level of fee-
earner is fair and reasonable as the most senior lawyer isnt needed to do all work for a 
case, and encourages delegation where appropriate. The policy only covers reasonable and 
necessary work as the investigator has pointed out.
While the court guideline rates are calculated because of where the solicitor is based, it isnt 
always necessary or reasonable to seek to instruct the most expensive lawyers possible, 
even if the other side can afford to do so. A reasonable person paying their own legal fees 
would seek to instruct an appropriately qualified lawyer for the lowest reasonable fee. 
Given the nature of Ms Os claim, it was fair and reasonable for DAS to accept it needed to 
offer more than £100 an hour. And it offered the average court rate for where the first law 
firm was based, even though I think Ms O couldve found a suitably qualified lawyer near 
where she lived. But Ms O then chose another law firm because she wasnt happy with the 
first one. DAS initially only offered the average court rate application to where that law firm 
was based. It then agreed to offer the same rate it offered before  up to £267 (plus VAT) an 
hour.
I think the offer to increase the rate to £267 an hour is fair and reasonable. Im not 
persuaded that only city law firms could deal with Ms Os claim; from the information Ive 
seen, most specialist employment lawyers could deal with it, particularly as Counsel has 
been instructed. Theres no evidence that only the most expensive firms could properly deal 
with the matter or that City of London lawyers are in reality better than other suitably 
qualified lawyers. And I dont think Ms Os choice of solicitor has been rendered meaningless 
 shes instructed two firms already and the rate offered by DAS now exceeds the rate which 
in my experience of the industry other firms would accept.
Its worth pointing out that the policy has a costs limit of £50,000. If more expensive solicitors 
are used, Ms O will run out of cover sooner and after less work has been carried out. Its fair 
and reasonable for DAS to want to limit costs, and its in Ms Os interests too due to the 
existence of the cap. The policy isnt designed to cover in full all claims  the limit is such 
that complex claims were unlikely to be covered in full.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or reject my decision before 
8 March 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman