DRN-3642330
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs M are unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a claim they made 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr D and Mrs M booked accommodation for a trip abroad. They were due 
to be taking their trip from 1 August 2020, until 15 August 2020, staying in the booked 
accommodation. At the point of booking they paid a deposit of around £3,000. 
However, Mr D and Mrs M have said that following this, the global coronavirus pandemic, 
which was declared by the World Health Organisation (WHO) on 11 March 2020, caused 
problems with their holiday plans. Particularly as from 17 March 2020, the Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advised against all, or all but essential 
travel abroad. 
Mr D and Mrs M have said they tried to contact their insurer, UKI, for advice about what to 
do, given the pandemic, and its potential impact on travel. But they werent able to get 
through to it. 
So, Mr D and Mrs M contacted their accommodation provider in June 2020  who said the 
balance of their accommodation costs were due. So, they would need to pay this. 
Alternatively, they were offered the option to use their deposit for a trip in 2021 instead of on 
their original holiday dates  with this offer expiring at the end of 2021. Mr D and Mrs M took 
this option, given there wasnt another option available to them at the time, and they wouldnt 
be travelling for their original holiday. 
Around a year later, in June 2021, Mr D and Mrs M contacted their accommodation provider 
again. They noted they wouldnt be travelling abroad whilst the country they were due to 
holiday in was on the UKs amber list. So, they wouldnt be paying the balance for the 
holiday, and wanted the deposit theyd paid back. The accommodation provider refused to 
return this. So, Mr D and Mrs M contacted UKI to make a claim for the loss of their deposit.
UKI declined the claim made. It said that for Mr D and Mrs Ds claim to be covered, the 
Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) would have needed to advise 
against all, or all but essential travel, in the 28 days preceding Mr D and Mrs Ms original 
holiday dates. UKI said that in the 28 days prior to travel, the FCDO wasnt giving advice of 
this nature to Mr D and Mrs Ms intended destination. So, there wasnt cover under the 
policy.
In addition to this, UKI noted that Mr D and Mrs M had been offered to use their deposit for a 
trip during 2021. So, considered that Mr and Mrs M were able to recover their loss from 
elsewhere. UKI said costs recoverable elsewhere also werent covered by the policy. 
Mr D and Mrs M disagreed, so raised a complaint with UKI. It considered this and 
maintained its position on the matter. Because Mr D and Mrs M remained dissatisfied, they 
referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said Mr 
D and Mrs Ms policy provided cover for cancellation of a holiday in certain circumstances. 
And Mr D and Mrs Ms situation didnt fall into any of those circumstances. So, they 
considered UKI had acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Our investigator noted Mr D and Mrs M had said they werent able to use the voucher for 
their deposit in 2021, because of the school term times. But our investigator said this didnt 
make a difference to the outcome of the case, because there wasnt an event covered by the 
policy anyway.
Mr D and Mrs M didnt agree. They highlighted their attempts to get through to the insurer 
when deciding what to do about their holiday. And said theyd been told that if they had 
managed to get through to UKI and made a claim in July 2020 their claim would have been 
paid. So, they felt UKI should be dealing with the claim. Our investigator said they couldnt 
see the claim would have been accepted in July 2020, given the terms of Mr D and Mrs Ms 
policy. So, this didnt change the outcome of the complaint.
Because Mr D and Mrs M remained in disagreement their complaint has been referred to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether UKI, in declining this claim, acted in line with these requirements. And 
Im satisfied it did.
Ive reviewed Mr D and Mrs Ms policy documentation. As is usual with insurance policies of 
this nature, I can see it doesnt cover every eventuality. Rather, for a claim to be successful, 
the loss needs to have happened because of an insured event listed within the policy 
booklet. If the loss isnt due to one of those listed events, it isnt covered, and the policy 
wont respond.
Mr D and Mrs Ms policy covers the need to cancel a trip, in certain circumstances. Mr D and 
Mrs M have said they didnt cancel their trip when they contacted their accommodation 
provider in June 2020  but were looking to take pragmatic steps to resolve the situation. But 
Mr D and Mrs M were noting they would no longer be able to go on holiday, and so their trip 
wasnt going ahead. This would be considered as a cancellation. So, Im satisfied it was 
correct to consider the claim under this section.
Given this, Ive looked at the circumstances, or insured events, under the cancellation 
section of the policy. These include things such as being unable to go on holiday due to the 
insured person, or travelling companion being ill or made redundant, or needing to attend 
jury service. From looking at these circumstances, there is only one listed circumstance that 
is potentially relevant to Mr D and Mrs Ms situation. These being where cancellation of a trip 
is due to the FCDO advising against all, or all but essential travel, in the 28 days before the 
trip departure date.
To be covered here, Mr D and Mrs M would therefore need to have cancelled their trip 
because in the 28 days before the FCDO was advising against all or all but essential travel. So, Ive looked at the FCDO travel advice in the 28 days before Mr D and Mrs Ms departure 
date. And, I can see that the country Mr D and Mrs D were due to travel to was exempt from 
the advice against all, or all but essential travel. Given this, Im satisfied Mr D and Mrs M 
didnt meet the above criteria, in order to be covered under the policy. And therefore, UKI 
acted fairly in declining their claim on this basis. The policy terms werent met, and Mr D and 
Mrs M would have been able to travel.
Mr D and Mrs M have raised that they tried to get through to UKI on numerous occasions to 
seek advice on what to do about their holiday. And have said theyve been told if they had 
been successful in getting through in July 2020, their claim would have been covered. But, 
based on the above, Im satisfied the loss wouldnt have been covered. So, I dont think Mr D 
and Mrs M not getting through to UKI makes a difference to the outcome of this claim. So, I 
dont require UKI to do anything differently here.
UKI has said that even if there was an insured event under the policy, Mr D and Mrs Ms loss 
wouldnt have been covered under the policy, as the deposit was recoverable elsewhere, in 
the form of a voucher. And any loss recoverable from elsewhere is excluded under the 
policy. This doesnt impact the outcome this complaint  because there was no insured 
event for Mr D and Mrs M to claim under. So, I dont need to comment on this any further in 
this decision.  
Ive reviewed the remainder of Mr D and Mrs Ms policy and am aware there isnt another 
section that would cover their loss. So, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly in declining to cover the 
claim.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require UK 
Insurance Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman