DRN-2614919
The complaint
Mr L complains that PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) mis sold him a Hire Purchase (HP) 
Agreement by not telling him interest would be front loaded. He would like some of his 
interest refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view for the following reasons: -
I have no evidence to confirm what Mr L was told at the point of sale. I do appreciate 
its difficult to evidence a conversation. 
I have seen the HP agreement Mr L signed. This clearly explains the total amount of 
the loan including the interest payable. It also explains the option to end the 
agreement early and how to obtain a quote to do so. It doesnt explain interest is front 
loaded so Mr L might reasonably not have known this. But the explanatory document 
Mr L signed gave a phone number to call for any queries. PSA has no evidence to 
show Mr L contacted it about the interest. I might have expected Mr L to do so if he 
intended to pay off the loan early and the interest was a key issue for him.
From PSAs records it seems Mr L asked for a settlement figure in December 2017 
two months after he took out the agreement So he may have been intending to pay 
the loan off at that point. If so, he would have been aware at that point of the interest 
issue. But he didnt pursue this until August 2020 when he requested a further 
settlement quote. 
I think if Mr L took out his agreement fully intending to pay it off early, he would have 
done so in 2017 and not left it until 2020. The interest seems to have been correctly 
applied. And based on what I have seen I have no evidence to show that the HP 
agreement was mis sold to Mr L. So, on that basis I dont think I can reasonably 
agree to ask PSA to refund some of his interest payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman