DRN-3484827
The complaint
Mr O complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC had incorrectly recorded he had missed 
repayments to the loan account he holds with them. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
AvantCredit have acknowledged that they incorrectly recorded that Mr O had missed 
repayments to his loan account in October 2020. They have also acknowledged that 
this was only picked up by Mr O in January 2021 and that they didnt begin to deal 
with the issue correctly until he followed it up two weeks later (issuing their final 
response in March 2021). 
AvantCredit have shown that they amended the record with the credit reference 
agencies and paid Mr O £50 for the distress and inconvenience their errors had 
caused. They later increased this by offering a further £25. 
I have considered the impact that this had on Mr O and I think a total of £75 
compensation is fair, reasonable and proportionate in these circumstances. 
Mr O was understandably concerned that it could have impacted on his employment 
in the financial services sector. However, I am glad that it didnt and I cant award 
compensation for an impact there could have been. 
Mr O has also said that it impacted a credit application he made following the 
incorrect recording. However, we have no further information on this. I also couldnt 
fairly make an award for that, when I am not persuaded that a missed payment would 
have had such an impact on its own. 
AvantCredit made an error and this was obviously distressing for Mr O. Who then 
had to chase them up to ensure it was being dealt with. However, I think that the total 
of £75 offered fairly compensates him for that.  
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Os frustration, I think the offer made by 
AvantCredit is fair.
My final decision
AvantCredit of UK, LLC has already made an offer to pay a total of £75 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. It seems £50 has already been 
paid. If the remaining £25 hasnt yet been paid, AvantCredit of UK, LLC should now make 
arrangements to do so. 
So, my decision is that AvantCredit of UK, LLC should pay the further £25 if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman