DRN-4094736
The complaint
Mr A complains about the amount of time taken by  Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as 
Moneyway, to resolve his concerns about a faulty car. He would like the matter resolved.
What happened
The details of this complaint int are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr A raised issues with his car within a month of getting it, but it took Moneyway a 
year to issue a final response letter agreeing to rejection. It agreed to unwind the 
agreement and remove it from Mr As credit file. I dont think I need to go into the 
details of the issues with the car given Moneyway agreed to rejection.
On return of the vehicle Moneyway was entitled to charge £1517.36 in respect of   
the condition of the vehicle, and £3107.50 for fair usage. Moneyway took these costs 
off the five monthly payments Mr A had already made of £2758.80 and wrote off the 
remaining balance due. This was in acknowledgement of how long it had taken to 
resolve the complaint and the inconvenience caused. I think this was a reasonable 
approach to these charges.
Moneyway also offered Mr A £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I am pleased to note that it accepted our investigators view that a more 
appropriate compensation payment would be £500 given the issue had taken a year 
to resolve. 
I appreciate Mr A doesnt feel that the £500 is sufficient compensation. He has given 
us details of costs incurred for taxis to and from work. However, these date from after 
Mr A stopped making payments for the car in August 2022 so I dont think its 
reasonable to take these costs into account. He wasnt duplicating payments i.e., 
paying for both taxis and monthly payments for the car. However even if Mr A 
incurred some taxi or other  costs whilst still making monthly payments I think the 
amount Moneyway wrote off in charges, in addition to the £500 compensation it has 
agreed to, is more than sufficient compensation for any costs incurred, as well as for 
the distress and inconvenience of the time taken to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Secure Trust Plc trading as Moneyway should pay Mr A £500 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of the time taken to resolve his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman