DRN-3202158
The complaint
Mr A complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr As car, and several others, was hit by another car whilst it was parked and unattended at 
night. Mr A initially thought his car was undamaged, but it was later found to be a total loss. 
Mr A made a claim and UKI paid him a settlement, less his policy excess. But it recorded the 
claim as at fault as it said it wasnt able to recover its losses from the other driver. Mr A was 
unhappy as hed had to pay his excess and his premium had gone up at renewal.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI 
had made reasonable attempts to obtain a police report. The attending officers said Mr As 
car wasnt involved in the incident. UKI wasnt able to obtain details of the other driver and 
so it couldnt recover its outlay. So she thought UKI had reasonably recorded the claim as 
fault and retained the policy excess. 
Mr A then provided a police report which UKI said was very different to that the police had 
provided earlier. Mr A had reported his car as damaged the day following the incident. The 
report identified the other driver. So UKI reopened the claim, pursued the other drivers 
insurer for its outlay, restored Mr As No Claims Discount and refunded his policy excess. 
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably at the time based on the evidence it had 
been given by the police. But she thought there was no guarantee that UKI would recover its 
costs and so be able to change the at fault claim. 
Mr A replied asking for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. Mr A said UKI should have used the reference number hed provided to get the 
incident report from the police.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A feels frustrated that its taken nearly two years to reach this point 
in his claim. Mr A said UKI wouldnt listen to him and, if it had, it would have obtained the 
correct report sooner. So Ive reviewed how UKI handled the claim. 
I can see that UKI wrote to the police three times asking for details of the other driver. The 
letters provided Mr As details, the date, time and location of the incident. And they also 
provided the police incident number that Mr A had provided. The reply from the police was 
that it had no record of the incident as Mr A hadnt reported it to the police. And it said that 
the attending officers had confirmed that Mr As car wasnt involved. 
This was incorrect, as shown by the subsequent report the police sent to us. It seems that as 
Mr A reported the incident the following day, then there was some confusion with the 
records. 
But I think UKI could only act on the information it had at the time. It had pursued the police 
for details of the other drivers insurer, but it wasnt provided with them. It also pursued the 
insurer of another party involved in the incident for these details, but it received no response. 
I cant hold UKI responsible for other parties actions. I think it reasonably pursued the police 
until it received a reply and I think it was reasonable for it to rely on this at the time. So I cant 
say that UKI handled the claim unfairly or unreasonably. 
Fortunately, Mr A had better success in contacting the police for a full report of the incident. 
With this, UKI could now pursue the other drivers insurer to recover its outlay. So it decided 
to restore Mr As NCD and refund his policy excess, in keeping with his policys Uninsured 
Driver Promise:
If you make a claim for an accident that is not your fault and the driver of the car that hits 
your car is not insured, you will not lose your No Claim Discount or have to pay any excess.
So I think UKI has acted in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. It is now pursuing 
the other insurer for its outlay. If it succeeds, then it would be able to change how the claim 
is recorded. But theres no guarantee that it will recover its outlay in full and so be able to 
change the claim outcome. In the meantime, any claim, even non-fault, can have an effect 
on policy premiums.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman