DRN-3678488
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs P complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) rejected a claim under their 
home insurance policy. When I mention AXA I also mean its suppliers and contractors.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs P have a home insurance policy covering their buildings.
In late November 2021, Mr M and Mrs P say that their home was damaged in a storm. The 
storm blew slates off the roof and rain entered the property causing damage inside a few 
rooms in the house.
AXA sent a surveyor to inspect the property in early December. He said he thought the 
damage to the house had been happening over a long period. He could see evidence of 
slates being out of place, pre-existing damage to the guttering and rot to external woodwork. 
Inside the house, he reported that there was heavy staining and paint damage consistent 
with water leaking into the property over a prolonged period of time.
AXA declined the claim because it said the building hadnt been maintained. It referred to 
this part of its policy terms and conditions:
General exclusions
These exclusions apply throughout your policy.
We will not pay for:
9 Gradual damage/deterioration/maintenance
Any loss or damage caused gradually or by wear and tear, depreciation, the effects 
of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs that arise from 
the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents. 
AXA also noted that there had been strong winds in the area around the same time but it 
said this wasnt the main cause of the damage, only that it had highlighted the pre-existing 
problem of a lack of maintenance.
Mr M and Mrs P were unhappy because they remembered being told that their claim would 
be covered. They remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They ask 
that AXA settle their claim.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he thought AXA had 
acted reasonably in declining the claim. He said AXAs report was clear that the claim was 
always very likely to have been declined and was written by an expert surveyor, so it could 
be relied on to be accurate in assessing the cause of the damage.
Mr M and Mrs P didnt agree with the view. They asked that it was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why. 
Ive looked carefully at the evidence Ive been supplied. I can see from the file that the 
weather in the general area around the time the damage happened was poor, with strong 
gusting winds. I can understand why Mr M and Mrs P felt that the storm was the cause of the 
damage.
But AXAs report includes lots of information about how Mr M and Mrs Ps house hadnt been 
maintained. In the report there are comments from Mr M and Mrs Ps family that the roof had 
been replaced three years before, and annually maintained. I can see from the photos that 
there had been movement of several slates on the roof, and evidence of previous repairs. 
The general condition of the roof seems, in my view, poor and doesnt seem like it had been 
recently fitted or maintained. I can also see several area where vegetation has grown on the 
roof and gutters, which would also indicate a general lack of maintenance.
Also included in the report is an anecdotal comment from a family member that water had 
been entering the property multiple times in the previous 3-6 months. Whilst this information 
isnt necessarily definitive, I find it very persuasive when I consider it alongside the photos of 
pre-existing water damage provided by AXAs surveyors.
Ive also thought about Mr M and Mrs Ps comment where they say they think were told their 
claim would be covered. AXAs report seems very decisive to me in that their claim was very 
likely to have been declined, so I cant agree with them that AXA have behaved unfairly 
here.
Mr M and Mrs P have also provided this service with further evidence about the roof. Ive 
examined this evidence, which is from a roofing company, but its not sufficient to change my 
mind. The photos provided seem to me to confirm the general condition of the roof being 
poor. I appreciate that the photos mention high winds and storm damage, but they dont 
deal with the central issue here which is that the lack of maintenance of the building was the 
root cause of the damage, rather than the weather.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M and Mrs P, but I dont think AXA 
have acted unfairly in declining their claim, and Im not going to uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman