DRN-3440239
The complaint
Mr N complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined his travel insurance claim and about the 
relevant policy limit. My references to AWP include its agents. Mr N is represented by his 
mother in this complaint but for ease of reference Ill just refer to Mr N .
What happened
On 14 February 2020 Mr N booked a ski instructor course to take place in a country Ill refer 
to as A. In October 2019 Mr N had taken out a STA Travel Insurance policy, premier plus 
option, insured by AWP, to cover him while travelling.
The course began on 8 March 2020 as planned. However, on 11 March 2020 the World 
Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 12 March 2020 the 
regional government where Mr N was staying in A announced closure of the ski slopes and 
all accommodation due to Covid-19, to take effect on 16 March 2020. On 14 March 2020  
Mr Ns course was cancelled due to the Covid-19 restrictions so he returned to the UK. He  
claimed on the policy for his cut short (curtailed) trip. 
AWP declined the claim as it said there was no cover under the policy for the circumstances 
of the curtailment.
Mr N complained to AWP but it said it couldnt respond within the required timescale so he 
complained to us. He says AWP unfairly declined the claim. He also believes the policy was 
mis-sold as it was sold specifically to people travelling to Europe to train as ski instructors 
but the policy only covered £1,000 of course fees when the course fees were much more 
expensive. Mr N wants AWP to pay the full cost he claimed.
Our investigator said AWP had unfairly declined the claim. He recommended AWP pay the 
claim, plus interest, taking into consideration the excesses and policy limits as AWP could 
fairly apply the £1,000 policy limit. He explained that the policy wasnt sold by the insurer so 
we couldnt consider the mis-sale complaint against the insurer.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators recommendation by the date we gave to respond 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ns policy and the circumstances of his claim, in deciding whether AWP has 
treated him fairly.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators requests for it to send us its file so weve 
considered the information, policy and other documents that Mr N has provided to us. I think 
we can fairly do so as weve given AWP reasonable opportunity to provide its file.
AWP didnt issue a full final response for this complaint, but Ive seen its claim decline letter 
that gave the reasons for the decline. AWP said that the claim wasnt covered by the policy 
terms in the cancellation and curtailment section, and I think thats right. That section of the 
policy says AWP will pay up to £10,000 for the unused part of Mr Ns irrecoverable specified 
costs (which includes ski instructor course fees) if the curtailment is due to one of the 
insured events that are listed in that section of the policy. I think AWP fairly said the 
circumstances of Mr Ns curtailment werent covered by that section of the policy.
AWPs letter also said it considered the claim under the government travel regulations 
section and Mr Ns claim wasnt covered as he was already in A when on 17 March 2020 the 
Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential 
travel abroad. But I think that on a fair and reasonable basis there is cover for Mr Ns claim 
under that section and Ill explain why.
The government travel restriction section of the policy says:
We will pay up to £1,000 in total, for your part of unused:
 personal accommodation;
 transport charges;
 pre-booked tours;
 other travel expenses (including cancellation fees, visas and STA Multiflex Pass);
 fees for any short term pre-booked vocational courses, for example...or ski 
instructor courses
all of which have been paid for or where there is a contract to pay that cannot be 
recovered from anywhere else. We will provide this cover if the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office or any government or other official authority advise against 
travel to a country/region shown on your travel itinerary within seven days of your 
scheduled:
 departure from your home country and the area forms a major part of your journey.
 date of visiting that area, if you are already travelling.
This section says theres cover if any government or other official authority advice is given 
within seven days of Mr N leaving the UK and the area forms a major part of his journey or 
the scheduled date of visiting that area if already travelling. Its not just limited to the advice 
from the FCDO. Ive seen evidence that the regional government for the relevant area of A 
where Mr N was announced the closure of all ski resorts and accommodation on 12 March 
2020, to take effect on 16 March 2020. I understand Mr N arrived there on or about 8 March 2020 so the regional government advice was within seven days of the day of scheduled 
departure from his home country and/or date of him going to that area.
The regional government restriction didnt specifically advise against travel to the region so 
on a strict interpretation of the policy terms theres no cover. However, I can step outside the 
strict policy terms to consider whats fair and reasonable. I think that as the regional 
government was restricting movement and closing the ski resorts and accommodation it was 
in effect telling people not to go to or stay in the area. So I think on a fair and reasonable 
basis the circumstances of Mr Ns claim are covered by this policy section.
The policy does have a general exclusion for claims arising from a pandemic. However, Ive 
seen an email from AWP that was sent to Mr N when originally declining the claim which 
says as he travelled before 13 March 2020 AWP wouldnt be applying that exclusion to this 
claim.
For the above reasons I find that AWP should pay Mr Ns claim as covered under the 
government travel restriction section of the policy.
That policy section does have a £1,000 limit. Mr N has said the policy isnt fit for purpose as 
his course fees were much more. So Ive considered whether AWP can fairly rely on the 
policy limit. 
AWP can decide what policy limits it want to put on different types of cover in the policy but it 
needs to make that information clear to a consumer. I think the £1,000 limit for the cover 
under the government travel restriction section is clearly set out on page two of the policy 
document under the heading Summary of cover. The policy summary document also clearly 
sets out the different limits of cover showing the premier plus has a £1,000 limit for the 
government travel restriction section. 
Its also fair to say that if Mr Ns course had been curtailed for one of the insured reasons 
detailed in the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy, which it wasnt, then the 
policy limit for that section is £10,000. So depending on the claim circumstances there would 
sometimes be full cover for the more expensive course costs.
I appreciate Mr N couldnt have known that a claim would need to be made under the 
government travel restriction section, but I think AWP can fairly apply the £1,000 limit to 
claims covered under that section.
I understand that Mr N also thinks the policy was mis-sold as he says he wasnt made aware 
of the levels of cover before he bought the policy.  Our investigator correctly explained that 
the insurer isnt responsible for the sale of the policy and weve set up a separate mis-sale 
complaint against the business that sold the policy to consider.
Putting things right
AWP must pay Mr Ns claim under the government travel restriction section of the policy 
subject to the relevant policy limits and excesses, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr Ns claim under the government travel restriction section of 
the policy subject to the relevant policy limits and excesses. Interest* must be added at 8% 
simple a year from the date of the claim until the date of settlement.*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman