DRN-2932145
The complaint
Mrs D complains about Pinnacle Insurance Plc and their decision to decline the claim she 
made on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
On 4 May 2020, Mrs D took out a pet insurance policy with Pinnacle to cover her dog, who 
Ill refer to as M.
Before this policy was taken out, M had been taken to his local vets in March as his stools 
were soft and watery. He was diagnosed with swollen anal glands and prescribed 
medication for this. Issues with Ms anus and stools continued into April, and there were 
further visits in May relating to hair loss. M continued to be prescribed with anti-inflammation 
medication.
In July 2020, M was taken back to his vets as his soft and watery stools had returned. M was 
prescribed another set of antibiotics and anti-inflammatories and placed on a hypoallergenic 
diet. Mrs D was told to bring M back if the symptoms persisted. And they did, so Mrs D 
referred back to her vets where they conducted blood and fluid tests, as well as a scan. And 
this showed M was suffering with an enlarged prostate that contained a cyst which the vet 
thought was making it difficult for M to pass his stools. M was given further medication and 
Mrs D submitted a claim to Pinnacle for the treatment M received from July.
Pinnacle declined Mrs Ds claim, as they thought M was showing symptoms of the condition 
before the policy was incepted in May. They explained the policy Mrs D held excluded any 
treatment for pre-existing conditions. And they thought M was displaying symptoms before 
the policy was incepted, so they believed the treatment M had was for a pre-existing 
condition and fell outside of the policy.
Mrs D was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint. Mrs D didnt think the issue with 
Ms anal glands was linked to his diagnosis for an enlarged prostate. Because of this, she 
thought it was unfair for Pinnacle to make this link and decline her claim. So, she wanted 
Pinnacle to reverse their decision and pay the claim shed made.
Pinnacle didnt agree. They thought their decision to decline the claim was fair, based on the 
vet notes that had been provided and the policys terms and conditions. So, they didnt think 
they needed to do anything more. Mrs D remained unhappy with this response, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised Mrs Ds 
opinion that Ms symptoms shown in March and April werent linked to the enlarged prostate 
diagnosis in July. But she didnt agree. She explained M had soft and watery stools in March 
and April, and this was the main symptom M was showing when Mrs Ds vets decided to do 
further tests in July. And from these tests, Ms issue with his prostate was identified. And she 
referred to the vet notes, which mentioned Ms previous issue with his anal glands in March 
and April. So, she didnt think she could say Pinnacle had acted unfairly when decided the 
symptoms were linked. So, she didnt think it was unreasonable for Pinnacle to decide Ms 
condition was pre-existing.
And she explained the policy Mrs D held made it reasonably clear pre-existing conditions 
were excluded from cover. So, she didnt think Pinnacle had acted unfairly when they 
declined Mrs Ds claim on that basis and because of this, she didnt think Pinnacle needed to 
do anything more.
Mrs D didnt agree. She thought soft stools was a symptom for several conditions. So, she 
didnt think it was fair for Pinnacle or our investigator to assume this symptom shown in 
March and April was a symptom of the later diagnosed enlarged prostate. She didnt think 
there was any medical evidence to show the soft stools and anal gland inflammation was 
linked to the enlarged prostate and because of this, she didnt think the claim should be 
declined. So, she maintained her view that Pinnacle should uphold the claim and cover the 
costs of the treatment M needed for his enlarged prostate. As Mrs D didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Mrs D. Ive no doubt it 
wouldve been a stressful time for her when she became aware M may be ill. And Ive seen 
she visited her vets on several occasions to try and understand why Ms stools were soft and 
watery, despite M receiving different medications and diets. And I can appreciate when Mrs 
D purchased her pet insurance policy with Pinnacle, she assumed this policy would help 
cover the financial cost of any treatment M needed to undergo and help alleviate the stress 
and worry she was experiencing.
So, when Pinnacle declined Mrs Ds claim, I recognise the upset this wouldve caused and 
the financial impact its had. But for me to say Pinnacle have done something wrong, Id 
need to see one of two things. Either, they acted outside of the policy terms and conditions 
when declining the claim. Or, if they didnt, that they acted unfairly when relying on the pre-
existing condition exclusion. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain how Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain my role 
and how Ive considered Mrs Ds complaint. Its not my role to re-underwrite Mrs Ds claim as 
I dont have the expertise to know for certain whether Ms symptoms shown in March and 
April were linked to his enlarged prostate diagnosis in July. Instead, my role is to consider 
evidence available to me and decide whether I think Pinnacle acted fairly when deciding to 
decline Mrs Ds claim. So, Ive considered Mrs Ds and Pinnacles testimony, as well as the 
vet notes provided and the policy terms and conditions to think about whether Pinnacles 
decision was fair, based on the balance of probability. And having done so, I think it was.
Ive seen the vet notes that document Ms medical history from March 2020. And I think 
these notes make it reasonably clear that M struggled with soft and watery stools for the 
majority of the time between March  August. In March and April, these stools were linked to an issue with Ms anal glands and medication was prescribed to treat this. But Ive seen M 
was still receiving treatment at the time Mrs D took out the policy with Pinnacle.
I recognise that in June, M didnt need to attend the vets and Mrs D has said the issue with 
Ms stools was resolved. But Ive seen M returned again with the same symptoms, minus the 
anal gland issue, in July. And its at this point Mrs Ds vets agreed to do further tests to better 
understand the cause of Ms soft stools. And from this, Ms issue with an enlarged prostate 
was diagnosed.
Ive seen the notes from this diagnosis in July. It explain that the enlarged prostate and cyst 
was obstructing one side of the passage of the faeces. And the notes also reflect a 
conversation the vets and Mrs D on the same day. Within this, Mrs D was asked if M was 
struggling to poo, which Mrs D replied yes. The vets then explained this may be a possible 
reason for Ms continuous inflammation as M was struggling to poo. 
So, the vets referred to Ms condition as continuous. And the symptoms of soft stools that 
led to the vets conducting further tests were the same as the symptoms shown when M was 
diagnosed with an anal gland condition in March and April. And the vets themselves 
suggested the issue with Ms enlarged prostate may have contributed to Ms issue with his 
stools, as the passage of the faeces was blocked because of this. 
I think these notes suggest that, on the balance of probability, it was more likely than not that 
Ms enlarged prostate was linked to the symptoms M presented when he saw the vets for 
treatment in March and April, which was before the policy was incepted. Because of this, I 
dont think I can say Pinnacle have acted unfairly when they deciding Ms enlarged was a 
pre-existing condition.
I appreciate Mrs Ds concerns about the soft stools, and how this can be a symptom of 
several different conditions and I dont dispute this. But on this occasion, considering M had 
been suffering from what his vets referred to as continuous inflammation which began in 
March, I think Pinnacle have acted fairly when deciding the soft stools were a symptom of 
the enlarged prostate he was eventually diagnosed.
And Ive seen Mrs Ds statement of insurance, provided by Pinnacle, which states Please 
note that pre-existing conditions are not covered under this policy. And Ive seen the terms 
and conditions of the policy Mrs D held which explains We will not pay for any condition or 
symptom, or anything related to it, that you were aware of or has been noted and/or 
investigated by a vet, before this policy started. 
While I dont think Mrs D couldve been aware of Ms enlarged prostate as the necessary 
tests hadnt be completed at the time she took the policy, I do think the symptom of soft 
stools had been noted and investigated by Mrs Ds vet. And as Ive explained above, I think 
Pinnacle have acted fairly when deciding this symptom was linked to Ms eventual diagnosis 
on the balance of probability. So, I cant say theyve acted unfairly when deciding Ms 
enlarged prostate was a pre-existing condition before the policy was incepted. And I cant 
say theyve acted unreasonably when declining the claim and not paying for Ms treatment 
as I think theyve acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when doing so. 
Because of this, I dont think Pinnacle need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs D was hoping for. And I recognise this leaves Mrs D 
financially impacted, when she put the cover in place to prevent this. I understand the upset 
and frustration this has caused and will continue to cause and I want to reassure Mrs D I 
have considered this at length. But my role is to remain impartial and independent. And I can 
only direct Pinnacle to reverse their decision and pay the claim if I think theyve done 
something wrong. And I dont think they have on this occasion.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint about Pinnacle Insurance 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman