DRN-3489725
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel (BSPS) and another deferred DB 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its D C Financial, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) 
from the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding 
their preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection 
Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were 
informed they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Around the same time, and concerned about what the recent announcements by his 
employer meant for the security of his pension, Mr W sought advice. Mr W met with D C 
Financial in October 2017 and it completed a financial planning questionnaire with him to 
gather information about his circumstances and objectives. In summary this recorded that
Mr W was 41 years old; he was working full-time; he was single; he rented his home; he had 
no liabilities; and he had a small amount of cash savings. D C Financial also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it initially deemed to be aggressive  a score of 
8 on a scale of 1 to 10. But it was agreed to proceed on the basis of a moderate to 
aggressive approach  a score of 7 out of 10.
On 15 November 2017 D C Financial advised Mr W to transfer his BSPS benefits and his 
other DB scheme benefits into a personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds in 
investment funds, which D C Financial deemed matched Mr Ws attitude to risk. In summary 
the suitability report said the reasons for the recommendation were: to provide Mr W with 
flexible income; the ability to retire at 55 and suffer no reductions; to provide better death 
benefits; and to avoid the funds going into the PPF.
Mr Ws pension transfer completed in the first quarter of 2018 and around £164,000 was 
received into the new personal pension.
Mr W complained to D C Financial in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
D C Financial didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In summary it said the advice was suitable 
and in Mr Ws best interests having regard for his stated needs and objectives. It said it 
provided Mr W with clear advice setting out the risks and benefits of transferring to ensure 
that Mr W was both aware of and comfortable with the risk of transferring away from the 
guaranteed benefits his DB schemes provided.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr W asked this service to consider his complaint.
In submitting its business file to us, D C Financial provided a substantive accompanying 
note, which I have read in full. But in summary it said it said the BSPS2 did not exist at the 
time, so it couldnt have recommended Mr W transfer to it. It said it doesnt think the critical 
yield and whether this was achievable should be a substantive consideration when looking at 
suitability. If the critical yield was considered, it said the only relevant comparison would be 
to the PPF. But it didnt think critical yields were relevant as Mr W didnt intend to purchase 
an annuity, so the comparison is flawed. It said the past performance and what had 
happened since the advice, which shouldnt be disregarded, showed that the level of growth 
was achievable. It said, in any event, even if the growth achieved through transferring meant 
the benefits of the new pension were the same as, or even slightly less than the DB 
schemes, the advice would still have been suitable as it provided
Mr W with flexibility. Overall it said it still felt that the recommendation to transfer was 
suitable as it allowed Mr W to achieve his goals and avoid moving to the PPF. It also argued 
that it was not responsible for any losses caused by bad investment advice since it had 
stopped providing ongoing servicing of Mr Ws pension. And it said if the ombudsman 
concludes that the advice wasnt suitable, it wants a provisional decision issued with an 
opportunity to consider and respond to before a final decision is reached.
An investigator considered the complaint and upheld it and said D C Financial should pay 
Mr W compensation. In summary they said they didnt think the advice was suitable. They 
said, given the growth rates required to match both of Mr Ws DB scheme benefits, he was 
likely to be worse off in retirement as a result of transferring whether he retired at his 
preferred retirement age or the schemes normal retirement age. They also didnt think Mr W 
was prepared to take a moderate to aggressive attitude to investment risk  they thought a 
medium or moderate risk approach ( a score of 6 out of 10) was more appropriate given his 
circumstances at the time.  They also didnt think there were other compelling reasons for 
the transfer  for example they said there was nothing to show Mr W needed flexibility or 
why he wouldnt want a guaranteed income in retirement; there was no reason why Mr W 
wanted to take a cash lump sum at 55, but if he did need it there was no advantage to 
transferring at this time given he was only 41; death benefits shouldnt have been prioritised 
over providing Mr W with security in retirement; and Mr Ws concerns about the BSPS2 and 
the PPF could have been allayed by D C Financial given the information that was available 
at the time. They said if things had happened as they should have, Mr W wouldve 
transferred his BSPS benefits to the new BSPS2 and remained in his other DB scheme.
D C Financial disagreed. In summary it said Mr W was told he would lose the guaranteed 
benefits he had and any right to potential future increases. It said despite the warnings Mr W 
confirmed his objectives of more flexibility, the ability to retire early, better death benefits and 
to avoid entering the PPF. It said it believed the transfer was in his best interests. It said that, 
up until Mr W left the services of D C Financial it had achieved growth of 8.99% significantly 
above the required critical yield. It went on to say that the investigator misunderstood its view 
on annuities saying that it would never argue that anyone would not wish to take an annuity, 
but the decision can only be made at the time of considering drawing benefits. And finally it 
said the investigator had failed to understand the fearful situation with British Steel at the 
time.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D C Financials actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
Id firstly like to briefly address something D C Financial raised in its submission with its 
business file. It said that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), previously 
undertook a review of its advice process in relation to members of the BSPS and they didnt 
highlight any concerns. It said, whilst the advice was tailored for each matter, it applied a 
consistent approach to determining suitability and recording its advice. So it has questioned 
how our service can come to a different conclusion  that transfer advice was unsuitable.
My role and that of our service is different to that of the FCA. My role is to look at the 
individual circumstances of a complaint - not business processes and practices as a whole - 
and decide what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint 
taking into account the considerations I listed above. And that is what Ive done here.
I can also see that D C Financial has requested that I issue a provisional decision on this 
case before I make a final decision. But I dont think I need to do so. Having considered 
everything provided by both sides, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons 
given by the investigator. Im not persuaded that any of the arguments raised by D C 
Financial in its submissions both prior to and following the investigators assessment are 
new. 
And Im satisfied that the investigator addressed these themes fully in their opinion letters. 
Im also not making my decision based on any new information provided by Mr W. 
So, it follows that I can issue a final decision.The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, D C 
Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
persuaded that it was in his best interests.
 
Financial viability
D C Financial produced two transfer value analysis reports (TVAS) as required by the 
regulator, showing how much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order 
to provide the same benefits as both his DB schemes  referred to as the critical yield. But 
from what I can see, the one in relation to his BSPS scheme was based on Mr Ps existing 
BSPS scheme benefits. But at the time this was produced  24 October 2017  it was clear 
that Mr W didnt have the option to remain in the existing BSPS  he either needed to opt 
into a new scheme (BSPS2) or move with the existing scheme to the PPF.
This means that at the time of the advice, basing the analysis on the existing scheme was
somewhat redundant. So analysis of that scheme wasnt helpful to Mr W. I think its 
reasonable to say that D C Financial shouldve used the BSPS2 figures instead so Mr W had 
all the relevant information to make an informed decision. By the time of the analysis Mr W 
shouldve received his Time to Choose information, so I think the information was available. 
But if for any reason it wasnt, D C Financial shouldve waited until it was available.
I can see that D C Financial has argued that BSPS2 was very far from being a certainty at 
the time of the advice, so the only comparison it could provide was the benefits available to 
Mr W through the PPF. But I think D C Financial is overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not 
happening. As I said, Mr W had likely already been sent his Time to Choose information 
where details of the scheme had been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same 
income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been lower. I think the relevant parties, 
not least the trustees, were confident at that point that the BSPS2 would go ahead. Of 
course, its possible this may not have gone ahead  but I still think D C Financial shouldve 
used the benefits available to Mr W through the BSPS2 into account in formulating its advice 
so that he was able to make an informed decision. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how D C Financial could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
D C Financial weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension 
transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr W was 41 at the time of the formal written advice and the paperwork records that he 
wanted to retire at 55 / 57  although I note the suitability report specifically said Mr W wasnt 
planning to retire until at least age 57. The TVAS dated 24 October 2017 set out the relevant 
critical yields in relation to Mr Ws BSPS scheme benefits; at age 65 it was 6.39% if Mr W 
took a full pension and at age 55 it was 8.59%. The TVAS didnt provide the critical yields for 
a reduced pension and tax-free cash. 
The critical yields required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 were 
4.65% assuming Mr W took a full pension and 4.32% if he took tax free cash and a reduced 
pension. And at age 55 they were 7.06% and 6.63% respectively.
It's not entirely clear to me why D C Financial produced critical yield figures comparing the 
benefits Mr W would receive at age 55 when the suitability report said he wouldnt retire until at least 57. It strikes me that for D C Financial to have properly advised Mr W and to put him 
in a fully informed position, it ought to have compared the benefits available to him at age 
57, which I can see is what it did for his other scheme benefits.
But also, as I said above, Mr W remaining in the existing BSPS scheme wasnt an option. 
So, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower 
annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat, 
so I think they wouldve been somewhere between those of the BSPS and the PPF - but 
closer to the BSPS. 
The TVAS report dated 2 November 2017 set out the relevant critical yields in relation to 
Mr Ws other deferred DB scheme benefits; at age 63 it was 7.13% assuming Mr W took a 
full pension and at age 57 it was 7%. The TVAS didnt provide the critical yields for a 
reduced pension and tax-free cash. The critical yields required to match the benefits 
provided through the PPF at age 57 were 6.5% assuming a full pension was taken and 
6.23% for a reduced pension with a cash lump sum.
 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.1% per year for 13 years to retirement (age 55) or 4.3% for 15 years to retirement 
(age 57). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged 
since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
moderate to aggressive attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, and 
contrary to what D C Financial argues, there would be little point in Mr W giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB schemes only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the schemes.
Here, the critical yield assuming Mr W took a full pension through his existing BSPS scheme 
at age 55 was 8.59%. The critical yield if Mr W took the same benefits through the PPF at 
age 55 was 7.06%. So, if Mr W were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at 
age 55 the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely closer 
to 8.59%. As I said above, it wouldve been helpful to see the figures at age 57. And while I 
think they wouldve been lower than these, I dont think they wouldve been substantially 
lower. In relation to Mr Ws other DB scheme, if Mr W took a full pension at age 57 it was 
7%. In both cases, these figures were higher than both the discount rate and the regulators 
middle projection rate. And in one example higher than the regulators upper projection rate.
I can see that D C Financial classified Mr W as a moderate to aggressive risk investor  a 
score of 7 out of 10 having reduced it from a score of 8. But despite D C Financial adjusting 
it downwards, because its not clear to me that Mr W had much if any real investment 
experience, given his age and circumstance at the time, Im not persuaded this accurately 
reflected the level of risk I think Mr W was prepared to take with his pensions. I think a 
medium or moderate risk attitude was appropriate here and more in line with the level of risk 
I think Mr W was prepared to take with his pensions. 
Given this, I think Mr W was most likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than 
those provided by the BSPS2 and his other DB scheme as a result of transferring to a 
personal pension and investing in line with a medium or moderate attitude to risk. 
And if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and Mr W had moved with the scheme to the PPF, 
given the critical yields here, I dont think the situation was any different. Even at age 65 I 
think the opportunity to improve on the benefits available through the PPF was limited.Id add here that, even if I was persuaded that Mr W was prepared to take a moderate to 
aggressive investment approach as D C Financial classified him being willing to take (which 
for the avoidance of doubt I am not) I think the opportunity to improve on his DB scheme 
benefits was limited. The critical yields of 7% through to 8.59% were the returns required 
each and every year to retirement to provide the same benefits as Mr W was considering 
giving up  so effectively these were the returns required just to stand still. To improve on 
the benefits from his DB schemes would require consistent returns in excess of these, which 
I think would be considered unlikely.
I can see that D C Financial says that the critical yield should not be a substantive 
consideration when looking at whether the advice was suitable. It also says the critical yield 
is of limited relevance because it is based on the growth required to produce a fund large 
enough to purchase an annuity and Mr W didnt want an annuity. But crucially the regulator 
required D C Financial to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be 
achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based 
on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont 
think Mr W could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular 
income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 16 years and 
perhaps longer. Its entirely possible that Mr W would want at least some guaranteed income 
in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB schemes).
D C Financial has said that during the time it managed Mr Ws pension, it achieved growth of 
8.99%, which is higher than the required critical yield. It says it sees no reason why this 
wouldnt have continued with suitable advice and it shouldnt be disregarded. But as D C 
Financial knows, past performance is no guarantee for future performance - so I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projection rates to be more realistic in this regard 
in the longer term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly given the 
relatively long investment period in this case.
Given Mr W was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of either DB scheme was 
in his best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice, as D C Financial has argued in this case. There might be other 
considerations which mean a transfer is suitable and in Mr Ws best interests, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It appears the main reason D C Financial recommend the transfer was because Mr W 
wanted flexibility  the ability to access a cash lump sum and draw a flexible income. 
But I dont think Mr W knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement.
Mr W was only 41 at the time of the advice, and while it wouldnt be unreasonable for him to 
start to think about his retirement, based on what Ive seen, he didnt have any concrete 
retirement plans  in fact I dont think he had any real plan. 
Ive not seen anything to show or suggest Mr W needed variable income throughout 
retirement or that he needed access to a cash lump sum and delay taking an income. 
There was no reason given in the advice paperwork why Mr W required access to a lump 
sum at 57. Mr W didnt own a home, so he didnt for example have a mortgage that he 
needed to repay at this time. So it strikes me that, if asked, like most consumers Mr W liked 
the idea of flexibility - but I think this was a nice to have or a feature or a consequence of 
transferring to a personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective.For these reasons I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out 
of the DB schemes. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr W to give up 
his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement 
would be.
I can see D C Financial also recommended the transfer to allow Mr W to take his benefits 
early without reduction describing the DB schemes as imposing penalties in the suitability 
report. I think D C Financial was referring to the actuarial reduction that would take place to 
reflect the pension benefits being paid for longer. The starting monetary amount when 
compared with the full pension payable from age 63 and 65  the schemes normal 
retirement ages  wouldve been less. But by taking an income at age 57 Mr W wouldve 
been receiving his pension for longer. So its a trade-off, rather than a penalty  in my view 
the word penalty implies the DB schemes were inferior, which I think was unfair. In simple 
terms, it meant that Mr W couldnt expect to have the same pension he was due at 63 / 65 at 
age 57  hed have to accept less because it would potentially be paid for longer. And I think 
this shouldve been made clearer to Mr W.
Mr Ws income need at retirement was recorded as being around £24,000 net a year, which 
would equal £2,000 a month. I dont know whether this meant to read £24,000 gross a year 
 but it strikes me that for a single person even the gross amount was quite high. At a gross 
amount, this would still mean Mr Ws expenditure would be around the same level as when 
he was working. I accept Mr W didnt own his own home so his rental expenditure would 
continue into retirement  but I consider that Mr Ws expenditure overall would likely be 
lower in retirement. 
I wouldve expected D C Financial to have interrogated this to determine whether £24,000 a 
year was what Mr W actually needed to fulfil his retirement goals. I think this shouldve 
involved a thorough expenditure in retirement analysis. But I cant see D C Financial did so. 
Instead it appears to have simply said: Your required level of income in retirement is to be 
around £24,000 net per annum. As you are at least 16 years from retirement it is difficult to 
know what your funds would be at that point and if this would be possible." But if D C 
Financial didnt think Mr Ws plans were realistic, it shouldve made that clear to him. And if it 
had done so, this wouldve given Mr W the information and opportunity to re-consider things, 
including re-thinking his target retirement date and/or income, which I see no reason why he 
wouldnt have done given he had no concrete plans.
With that in mind, at age 65, under the existing BSPS, Mr W would receive an annual 
pension of just under £11,000 (under the BSPS2 this would likely be slightly less.) His other 
DB scheme would provide around £2,000 (payable from age 63). While this wouldnt have 
met his income needs in full, I think it wouldve provided a solid and guaranteed foundation - 
I think any shortfall couldve been met by Mr W accessing income or tax-free cash from his 
DC scheme, which wouldve likely met his true income need until his state pension became 
payable.
 
Mr W and his employer were contributing to his DC pension scheme at a combined rate of 
16% of his salary. And over the 24 years of contributions, this had the potential to achieve a 
pension fund in excess of £130,000 not accounting for growth or salary increases. 
So Mr W wouldve likely had a not insignificant pension to draw on flexibly as and when he 
needed, to top up his income or take additional lump sums. So I also think its the case that 
Mr W didnt have to sacrifice flexibility in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
As I said earlier on, I accept at the time of the advice, the BSPS2 hadnt been established. 
Although I think the communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very optimistic 
that the scheme operating conditions would be met, it wasnt certain. And if Mr W had opted 
into the BSPS2 and it hadnt gone ahead, he wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 65 according to D C Financials analysis Mr W wouldve been entitled to a pension of 
£8,775 a year. This was lower than the pension hed be entitled to under the BSPS2, but I 
dont think it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a difference to the 
recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr W wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on until his 
state pension became payable. So, I still think Mr W couldve likely met his needs in 
retirement even if the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead and hed had to move with it to the PPF.
Overall, because Mr Ws plans for retirement were far from known, and I think its likely he 
couldve met his income needs in retirement by remaining in his DB scheme and through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF if D C Financial had been realistic with him, I dont think it was in Mr Ws 
best interests for him to transfer his pensions just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded 
he really needed at the time. 
Death benefits
The advice paperwork records that Mr W was concerned about the inflexible death benefits 
of the existing scheme him and he wanted to leave his pension fund to his children.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement - not as a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Mr Ws security in retirement. And I say potential, because the sum 
left on Mr Ws death was dependent on investment returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or 
investment performance was lower than expected, there may not have been a large sum to 
pass on anyway.
D C Financial recorded that Mr W had generous death-in-service cover through his employer 
if he died before retirement. So he already had lump sum death benefits available, which he 
could nominate his children to receive if he hadnt already done so. And it also knew that 
Mr W was paying into the DC pension scheme and he wouldve been able to nominate his 
children as beneficiaries of this plan too  again if he hadnt already done so. So its possible 
that Mr W already had sufficient lump sum death benefits to enable his family to be catered 
for as he intended in the event of his death.  
But if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family over and above that which was 
already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his 
pension fund remained on his death, I think D C Financial shouldve instead explored 
additional life insurance. And this he couldve been in the form of a whole of life basis and 
written it in trust for the benefit of his children. Given Mr Ws age, health and disposable 
income, I see no reason why this wouldnt have been affordable.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB schemes
I have no doubt that Mr W was concerned about his BSPS pension. His employer had 
recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the 
PPF. 
So its quite possible that Mr W was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and what might happen. But it was D C Financials 
obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive already explained, at the time of the advice it seemed likely the BSPS2 was going 
ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr W through the 
BSPS2 into account, and I think this wouldve alleviated Mr Ws concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, and/or his other DB 
scheme moved to the PPF, I think that D C Financial shouldve reassured Mr W that the 
schemes moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or was led to believe. As I 
set out above, the income available to Mr W through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid 
base, which his other means could supplement to likely meet his income need at retirement. 
He was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the 
increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not 
subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that Mr Ws concerns shouldve led to 
D C Financial recommending he transfer out of the DB schemes altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr W was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Mr W. But D C Financial wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might 
have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr W needed and 
recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income - whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF in 
relation to his BSPS benefits - at a time when I dont think his retirement plans were in any 
way formulated. By transferring to a personal arrangement Mr W was likely to receive lower 
overall retirement benefits at retirement age. And I dont think there were any other particular 
or compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it 
was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his DB schemes to a personal pension at this 
time; particularly not when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2 in relation to his 
BSPS pension benefits.
Once again, I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given. 
But I think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr W had many 
years before he expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would 
likely be. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in 
benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement. 
And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr W wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the 
scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, the annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think D C 
Financial shouldve advised Mr W to opt into the BSPS2 in relation to his BSPS pension and 
remain in his other DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against D C 
Financials advice, which is what D C Financial says. It argues that Mr W wouldve carried on 
as an insistent client.
Ive considered this carefully - but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against D C Financials advice. I say this because, while I 
accept Mr W was motivated to transfer when he approached D C Financial, on balance, I still 
think Mr W wouldve listened to and followed D C Financials advice if things had happened 
as they should have and hed been advised to opt into BSPS2 and retain his other DB 
scheme pension. 
Mr W was not in my view someone who could reasonably be described as an experienced 
investor, or someone who possessed the necessary skill, knowledge or confidence to go 
against the advice they were given; particularly in what is a complex pension matter. So, if 
D C Financial had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of his DB schemes, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If D C 
Financial had properly considered Mr Ws retirement income need and explained that he 
could likely meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr W would have insisted on transferring out of 
his schemes against D C Financials advice.
In light of the above, I think D C Financial should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And in 
relation to his BSPS benefits, as per the above it is the benefits available to him through the 
BSPS2 that should be used for comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £150 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr W. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish D C Financial  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on 
Mr W. Taking everything into account, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some 
distress. So I think an award of £150 is fair in all the circumstances.
Finally I can see that D C Financial says that it shouldnt be responsible for any losses as a 
result of any subsequent bad investment advice  a reference to any losses stemming from 
those investments after it ceased managing Mr Ws pension investment. But the investments 
would not have arisen at all were it not for D C Financials unsuitable advice. So, I dont 
agree that its responsibility for loss stemming from its advice should be limited to when it 
ended its agreement with Mr W.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr W has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the D C Financial to put Mr W, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for D C Financials unsuitable advice. If 
suitable advice had been given, Mr W would most likely have opted into the BSPS2 and 
remained in his other DB scheme. So in relation to his BSPS benefits, it is the benefits under 
the BSPS2 which should be used for comparison purposes. 
D C Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, if suitable advice had been given I think its likely Mr W would take his benefits at 
his schemes normal retirement age. So, compensation should be based on his normal 
retirement ages of 63 and 65 respectively.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
D C Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date D C Financial receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes D C Financial to pay 
Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect D C Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
D C Financial pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
D C Financial Limited should also pay Mr W £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
in this matter.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding.
 
Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mr W may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman