DRN-2363939
The complaint
B and B, a partnership, complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined to pay its claim on its 
commercial motor insurance policy. The complaint is brought on behalf of B and B by its 
owners, Mr B and Mrs B. B and B is represented in this matter by Mr W. 
What happened
A worker on B and Bs farm had an accident whilst driving a tractor on a road and B and B 
made a claim for repairs. AXA validated the claim and found that the worker had undeclared 
driving convictions. It said B and B was required by the policy terms and conditions to inform 
it of any change of risk, including the history of any driver. As it hadnt done this, AXA 
declined the claim. Mr W said the policy term was vague, and he said Mr B and Mrs B hadnt 
received a copy of the policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy term was clear and meant someones driving history. She thought AXA had sent the 
policy documents to Mr B and Mrs B. She thought B and B was required by the Insurance 
Act 2015 to volunteer information it knows to the insurer. She thought it was for Mr B and 
Mrs B to check the workers driving history and tell AXA about it. AXA said that if they had 
done this, it wouldnt have provided cover for him. So she thought AXA was entitled to 
decline the claim. 
Mr W replied that he wanted the complaint reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W said that Mr B and Mrs B are out of pocket by about £60,000 due to the declined claim. 
I can understand that this financial loss must be very distressing. B and B has also 
complained about the actions of its broker that it says led to the claim being declined. But I 
cant consider that here, as the broker is a separate business to AXA. 
Mr W has provided detailed submissions on behalf of B and B and Ive considered all of 
these. But my focus will be on whether AXA acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and fairly and reasonably in declining the claim.
The relevant legislation for commercial motor insurance policies is The Insurance Act 2015. 
Under the Act, policyholders have a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the 
insurer when taking out a policy by volunteering information. This means they have to 
disclose either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
There are some exceptions. For example  unless the insurer asks about it, the policyholder 
doesnt have to disclose something if it reduces the risk or if the insurer already knows (or 
should reasonably know) about it.
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So the policyholder should 
take reasonable steps to check any information available to them and consider if theres 
anything they ought to disclose.
So, in B and Bs case, I need to consider whether it gave a fair presentation to the insurer of 
everything it knew  or ought to have known  about the risks it wanted to insure. We usually 
think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to ask a clear question to find out what it wants to 
know. 
If we decide the policyholder didnt give a fair presentation, we need to decide what would 
have happened if they had given fair disclosure. If the insurer would have offered the policy 
on the same terms anyway theres no remedy available and it wont be whats described in 
The Act as a qualifying breach.
If the insurer would have done something different, it will be a qualifying breach. And The 
Insurance Act sets out that when a commercial customer fails to provide fair presentation, 
this is what should happen:
If it was deliberate or reckless the insurer can avoid the policy and refuse all 
claims and it doesnt have to return the premiums
if the qualifying breach was neither deliberate or reckless and the insurer wouldnt 
have provided the insurance, it may avoid the contract and refuse any claims, but 
it must return the premiums; (unless the non-disclosure was deliberate or 
reckless)
if the insurer would still have provided the insurance but on different terms (other 
than the premium) the policy is to be treated as if it had been provided on those 
terms; and
if the insurer would have charged a higher premium, it may take a proportionate 
approach to any claims
AXA relied on clause 12 on page 23 of the policy to decline the claim. This requires the 
policyholder to notify AXA of any alteration in risk that materially affects the policy. Material 
information is stated to include the history of any driver.
Mr W thought this term was vague. But I dont agree. I think it means, in the context of the 
policy, the driving history of any one driving B and Bs vehicles. Mr B and Mrs B said they 
didnt receive a copy of the policy. But I can see that it was sent to the correct address so I 
cant hold AXA responsible for this. And Id expect B and B to make itself reasonably aware 
of the policys wording. So I think it was for B and B to give AXA a fair presentation of what it 
knew, or ought to have known, about its drivers histories. 
The worker in question had serious driving convictions within the last five years. Mr B and 
Mrs B didnt check the workers licence and allowed him to drive the tractor. They said that 
hed been driving tractors on other farms, and so they assumed that this was OK. Mr B and 
Mrs B said they thought anyone with a valid licence was permitted to drive their vehicles. I think it was for Mr B and Mrs B to ensure that cover was in place for anyone driving their 
vehicles. From what I can see, the worker was self-employed but had worked for B and B, 
but not driven any vehicles, before the latest policy incepted. Arguably, if he was likely to 
drive vehicles, then his driving history should have been declared at renewal. I can see that 
the renewal documents contain a question asking if any drivers have been disqualified within 
the past 10 years. This is answered No. 
Following the renewal, the worker had driven a vehicle on one occasion before the accident. 
I think that it was then for B and B to comply with clause 12 and to notify AXA as soon as 
possible of any alteration in risk that materially affected the policy. I think its fair and 
reasonable to expect B and B to check its drivers histories and tell AXA about any 
convictions. But it didnt do this and allowed him to drive the tractor a second time, and this 
was when he had the accident that led to the claim.   
AXA has shown that it wouldnt have covered the worker if it had known about his driving 
history. It said it would have declined cover for him due to the number and serious nature of 
his convictions. 
So I think the failure to disclose details of the workers convictions was a breach of the 
requirement, under The Insurance Act 2015, of the duty to make a fair presentation of the 
risk. And so I think AXA was then entitled to decline the claim. I havent seen that the breach 
was deliberate or reckless, nor that AXA avoided the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B & B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman