DRN-4173603
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy National Westminster Bank  Trading as Ulster Bank (Ulster Bank) 
hasnt reimbursed the amount she lost when she fell victim to an impersonation scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much detail 
here. However, in summary, Mrs S has been the victim of a scam. 
She received a telephone call from someone who said they were calling from her landline 
telephone provider but who we now know to be a fraudster. The fraudster told Mrs S that 
there were issues with the security of her landline that meant hackers might be able to 
access her bank accounts and steal her money. 
Mrs S has told us that the call took place on her landline. So, she doesnt know the 
telephone number the fraudster called from, but she has told us that the person she spoke to 
sounded professional and knew information about her account. Mrs S says the fraudster 
also read out the genuine telephone number of her landline provider and told her to check 
this online, which she did. Unfortunately, as Mrs S was speaking with the fraudster on her 
landline, there was no way for her to verify that this was the number the person was calling 
from. 
Mrs S was told she needed to update the security on her account. Thinking this was what 
she was doing, Mrs S was persuaded to download third-party viewing software which 
allowed the fraudsters access to her device. Mrs S was then told to log into her internet 
banking. Having gained access to her account, the fraudsters then made two payments from 
her account. 
Whilst it is agreed that it was the fraudsters who made the payments now in question here, 
its also accepted that Mrs S was aware that at least the first payment was leaving her 
account - the fraudsters told Mrs S this was a test payment. In order to authorise this 
payment, Mrs S generated a security code on her card-reader and gave this to the 
fraudsters and this ultimately allowed the first payment to be processed. The second 
payment was then processed without the need of an additional security code, as the new 
payee had already been set up on the account.
I have detailed the payments that left Mrs S account below:
£19,000 on 3 December 2018
£10,000 around 4 hours later  this payment takes Mrs S into an unarranged 
overdraft
Mrs S has said that throughout her conversations with the fraudster, she was satisfied that 
she was speaking to a professional and improving the security of her landline. However, 
shortly after the payments had left her account, Mrs S spoke to her Financial Advisor who 
told her that what had happened sounded like a scam. Mrs S then contacted Ulster Bank 
and it was at this point that Mrs S was informed about the second payment leaving her 
account. This payment had taken Mrs S account into an unauthorised overdraft amounting 
to £9,500. 
Ulster Bank acknowledged that Mrs S had been the victim of a scam, but it declined to offer 
her a full refund of the amount lost. However, it did write-off the unauthorised overdraft 
amount. 
Ulster Bank went on to say that Mrs S had shared her account security information with the 
fraudster, and this had broken the terms and conditions of her account. For this reason, it 
didnt think it should be held liable for the success of the scam now. It went on to say that it 
had got in touch with the receiving bank where Mrs S funds were paid to immediately upon 
notification of the scam, but unfortunately, by this point, the majority of Mrs S funds had 
been removed, and Ulster Bank was only able to recover around £20.
Unhappy with Ulster Banks response, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service and one of 
our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator thought that the two scam payments were unusual when compared to Mrs 
S normal account activity  they were high in value and the first had been made to a new 
payee following a large transfer into the account. And the second had taken Mrs S into a 
significant unarranged overdraft, which shed never had before. And so, our investigator 
thought Ulster Bank should have contacted Mrs S about the payments before it agreed to 
process them on her behalf and if it had, the scam couldve been prevented. However, she 
went on to say that she also thought Mrs S should bear some responsibility for the success 
of the scam too as she had not sought to verify who she was speaking with, and she had 
shared her account security information to allow the payments to be made. 
Ulster Bank agreed with the investigators opinion, but Mrs S did not. She said that she was 
a lay person and shouldnt be held to the same standard as the bank. She said the success 
of the scam was solely down to Ulster Banks failure to pick up on and prevent what were 
clearly out of character transactions on her account.  
Our investigator didnt change her mind and as an agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Having considered the submissions from both Mrs S and Ulster Bank, I agree with the 
outcome reached by the investigator so far as to say I think its fair that both Mrs S and 
Ulster Bank share responsibility for the success of the scam. Ill explain why in more detail 
below. 
Ulster Banks obligations 
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Ulster Bank should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
This means that there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm. 
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Ulster Bank acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs S when she allowed £29,000 to be transferred out of her account to a 
fraudster and when she reported the scam, or whether it should have done more than it did.
As Mrs S was aware that at least the first payment was leaving her account and she shared 
some of her account security information to allow the payments now in question here to 
leave her account, Im satisfied that the transactions can be considered as consented to or 
otherwise authorised by Mrs S. Because of this, Ulster Bank had an obligation to make the 
payments on her behalf. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the payments - as Ive explained above. 
I consider that as a matter of good practice Ulster Bank shouldve been on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions. And Im satisfied that the first payment of £19,000 
was unusual for this account when compared to Mrs S previous account activity. It is of a 
high value and it is being made to a new payee. And so, Im persuaded that it shouldve 
prompted further action from Ulster Bank. I think Ulster Bank shouldve got in touch with Mrs 
S prior to processing the payment. And, I think had they got in touch, its most likely the 
scam wouldve been uncovered. 
I say this because, Im satisfied that some basic questions surrounding who Mrs S was 
paying wouldve quickly uncovered that Mrs S was likely falling victim to a common 
impersonation scam that involves fraudsters pretending to be from a genuine landline provider. And Ulster Bank wouldve been able to tell Mrs S that no legitimate organisation 
would contact her and ask her to move money from her accounts for the reasons shed been 
given. I see no reason to doubt that having been able to discuss the common features of this 
type of scam, Mrs S wouldve been dissuaded from continuing from making the payment(s). 
And so, my starting position here is that Ulster Bank should offer Mrs S a full refund of the 
payments made to the fraudsters  minus the amount already written off. But that is not the 
end of the story. I also have to think about whether Mrs S should also bear some 
responsibility for her overall loss. And, in the particular circumstances of this case, I think 
she should. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudsters and 
the impact I believe this reasonably had on Mrs S when acting in the moment. Ill explain 
why: 
Mrs S appears to have believed what she was being told by the fraudsters without 
trying to independently verify the information they were giving her. And she accepted 
that she was speaking with her landline provider without verification too. Shes told us 
that she did so because the caller sounded professional and because whomever she 
was speaking with knew some of the details of the account she held with the genuine 
provider in question. However, it doesnt appear that Mrs S carried out any checks on 
the caller at all before proceeding to make these payments  she simply took what 
she was being told at face value. 
I accept what Mrs S has said about the fraudster reading out the number for her 
genuine landline provider and that Mrs S checked that this was in fact the correct 
number. But as the fraudster was calling on her landline, there was no way for Mrs S 
to verify that this was number the fraudster was calling from.
Its unclear how any potential hackers couldve used Mr Ms landline to access her 
bank accounts and so its unclear why Mrs S found this story plausible. 
Mrs Ss landline provider wouldnt generally play a role in preventing crime or need 
its customers to access their personal bank accounts. And Im satisfied that this 
should have struck Mrs S as unusual. It would be her bank that dealt with any 
potential threats of fraud on her account, not her landline provider. 
Its unclear why Mrs Ss landline provider would need a customer to complete a test 
payment out of their bank account in order to check the security of her connection. 
But Mrs S doesnt appear to have questioned this. 
Overall, Im satisfied that there were a number of things here that should have caused Mrs S 
concern. And so, Im satisfied that Mrs S has failed to mitigate her own losses and therefore 
any award now put forward should reflect that she should bear some responsibility for her 
loss alongside Ulster Bank. 
Recovery of funds 
Ive also thought about whether Ulster Bank couldve done more to help Mrs S once it was 
notified of the scam but I dont think it could. 
I think Ulster Bank couldve acted sooner than it ultimately did but even if it had, I dont think 
this wouldve made a difference to the overall outcome of this complaint. I say this because 
nearly all of Mrs Ss funds were utilised as soon as they were received into the fraudsters 
account, as is common with this type of scam, only around £20 remained. So, there was 
nothing Ulster Bank couldve done to recover any further funds on behalf of Mrs S. 
SummaryFor the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that the most fair and reasonable outcome is for 
Ulster Bank and Mrs S to share responsibility for the success of this scam. I think this 
settlement reflects that Ulster Bank couldve done more to prevent the success of the scam 
but at the same time, Mrs S couldve done more too.
Finally, I want to stress that Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mrs S. I 
have significant sympathy for the situation she found herself in. But having thought very 
carefully about what shes told us happened at the time and Ulster Banks actions, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Ulster Bank solely liable for her 
losses. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs S, National Westminster Bank  trading as Ulster Bank Plc 
should:  
refund Mrs S 50% of her overall loss - taking into account any refunds already paid 
As both Mrs S savings and current account were used to facilitate the payments to the 
scam, National Westminster Bank  trading as Ulster Bank Plc should:
pay 8% simple interest on the £500 that wouldve remained in Mrs S current account 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement,
pay interest at the savings account rate on the remaining balance from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement, and;
refund Mrs S 50% of the amount recovered from the receiving bank plus 8% simple 
interest from the time this amount was recovered, to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc  trading as Ulster Bank. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Emly Hanley Hayes
Ombudsman