DRN-1712519
 
The complaint
Ms C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
Ms C took out a PPI policy alongside a store card in March 2004. She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy that covered her if she was unable to work through accident, sickness 
or redundancy. 
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in this decision.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Cs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint, Ill explain why. 
Ms C says PPI wasn't brought to her attention and she had no idea she had it. AXA has said 
it would have explained to Ms C that the policy was optional and asked her to opt into the 
policy on the credit agreement. 
I appreciate AXAs comments. But it hasnt been able to provide any evidence, such as a 
credit agreement or application form, to show how the policy was presented to Ms C. So I 
cant safely say it made it clear to Ms C that she had a choice in taking out the policy or that 
she chose to take it. 
For these reasons, I uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
 
A. AXA should find out how much Ms C would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
 So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms C owed when she closed 
her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms C would have 
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms C would have owed each month without PPI  Ms 
C paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Ms C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms 
C wouldve owed AXA something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% 
a year.
 
D. AXA should tell Ms C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Cs complaint. AXA France IARD should now pay the redress as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman