DRN-3930965
The complaint
Ms G has complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited(Shawbrook) has dealt with 
a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75). 
What happened
In July 2014, Ms G entered into a contract to purchase external wall insulation (EWI) from a 
supplier. She paid for the EWI in part using a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook, 
which was repayable over ten years. 
The CMC wrote to Shawbrook September 2021, to make a claim under s.75 on behalf of 
Ms G. The purpose of s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or 
services using credit. The creditor (Shawbrook) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier 
for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  subject to certain 
considerations being met. 
Ms Gs claim explained that the EWI was sold to her as being self-funding  that is that it 
would pay for itself through the energy savings it would provide.
Shawbrook didnt respond within a reasonable time, so the CMC raised a complaint and 
referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Shawbrook issued a final response saying that the claim was made outside the time limits 
set out in the Limitation Act 1980. So, it had no liability. But Shawbrook offered £200 
compensation for the time it had taken to respond.
One of our adjudicators reviewed things but concluded that Shawbrooks response was 
reasonable. 
The CMC, on Ms Gs behalf, did not accept what the adjudicator said. The CMC made a 
number of points, but essentially said that we should consider s.14 of the Limitation Act 
when looking at the time limits. And that due to this Ms G had three years from when she 
became aware she had cause to make a claim. The CMC says that Ms G didnt know she 
could claim until she contacted the CMC, and the claim was made shortly after this. It also 
implies that we should consider whether the loan was negligently sold by an agent of 
Shawbrook separately to the claim under s.75.
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change their mind. They said that Ms G ought to have 
been aware she may have a cause to make a claim a year or two following the installation, 
so the claim was still made outside of the time limits that applied. 
Unhappy with this, Ms G asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Im considering whether Shawbrook has treated Ms G fairly in its response 
to her claim. There are a number of things Ive taken account of when reaching my decision, 
including the law, rules and regulations, good practice, and the facts of Ms Gs complaint. In 
this decision Ill refer those that I consider to be most central to my conclusions. 
Shawbrook has acknowledged that it took a long time to respond, and it has offered 
compensation for that. I think that offer is fair. 
relevant considerations 
Ms Gs complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
The CMC has tried to add a new claim about negligence in the sale of the loan itself. But that 
is not the claim that Shawbrook was asked to consider. So, I would not expect it to respond 
to such a claim. And it would be inappropriate for me to consider such a claim as part of this 
complaint when no claim or complaint has been referred to Shawbrook about that. 
As Ive explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Shawbrook, and it 
can be held responsible for a purchase Ms G made using her credit card. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So, Shawbrook must have treated Ms G fairly when it declined her s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Shawbrook gave for declining Ms Gs claim was that it was made outside of the 
relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Ms Gs rights to claim against Shawbrook are on the same 
basis of those she could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the relevant time limits 
set out in the Limitation Act are: 
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. In this case, Ms G says the benefits of the EWI was the inducement that made her make the 
purchase. But her claim is largely that those benefits were misrepresented and so she 
entered a contract which wasnt the value for money she expected. Ms G says that were it 
not for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then she wouldnt have entered 
the contract to purchase the EWI at all. 
So, Ms Gs financial loss occurred when she contracted to pay for the EWI in July 2014 
using a loan, and she began to make repayments. 
Ms G raised her claim with Shawbrook in September 2021, which is more than six years 
from when the damage occurred, and her cause of action accrued. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Ms Gs claim against Shawbrook is under 
the Consumer Credit Act, so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from 
an act of parliament). But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other 
provisions in the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a 
suppliers misrepresentation  effectively making Shawbrook step into the shoes of the 
supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for breach of contract  and 
gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim can be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Ms Gs claim as Ive already explained she raised her 
complaint with Shawbrook over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage 
suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance Ive considered when Ms G knew, or ought to 
have known, that she had a claim for misrepresentation or negligence against the supplier. 
Ms Gs complaint is that the EWI was not self-funding. I think she was aware at the time of 
sale how much she would be paying each month (and year) to repay the loan. So, once she 
had evidence of the benefits the EWI was providing, she would be in a position to know if the 
EWI was self-funding or not. I think she ought to have known this about one year after 
installation, since by that point she would have one years worth of energy bills. This would 
allow her to compare what she had spent in the year after installation with what she had paid 
in the year before, to see if the saving was more than the loan repayments. 
Given when I think Ms G ought to have known she had a claim for misrepresentation, s.14A 
does not extend the time limits referred to above. So, I consider it reasonable for Shawbrook 
to have concluded the claim was made out of time, and that Ms G did know, or ought to have 
known she had a claim for misrepresentation more than three years before she made her 
claim. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman