DRN-3215408
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G or the lender) was 
irresponsible to have agreed credit for her.
  
What happened
L2G provided Ms G with a loan of £1,700 in September 2016. The total amount of 
£8,432, including interest and charges, was to be repaid over three years in instalments 
of £234 a month (figures rounded).
This was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Ms G 
provided L2G with a bill of sale for her car. This meant that if Ms G didnt make her loan 
repayments L2G could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle.
By June 2017 Ms G had difficulty meeting her loan repayments. She missed payments 
and was in arrears by November 2017. Ms G told L2G she couldnt afford her 
repayments and entered into a repayment plan of £20 a month. The loan was paid off in 
July 2018 with a lump sum from Ms Gs car insurer after the car had been damaged in 
an accident.
Ms G said the loan was unaffordable for her. She says she was self-employed and 
had a poor credit history. L2G would have understood this had it carried out proper 
checks and would have declined to lend to her.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Gs complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because they concluded L2G had lent irresponsibly. They recommended L2G refund the 
payments Ms G made above the original amount of £1,700 she borrowed along with 
compensatory interest. They also recommended L2G remove any adverse information 
about the loan from Ms Gs credit file.
L2G didnt agree with this recommendation. It said its checks were proportionate and it 
found the loan to have been affordable. L2G asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to review and resolve. 
I sent out a provisional decision on 21 November explaining why I planned to uphold 
Ms Gs complaint and allowed time for both parties to respond. Ms G has accepted my 
provisional conclusions and L2G has confirmed it has nothing further to add to the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulations in place at the time said that L2G needed to check Ms G could afford to 
meet her repayments sustainably before agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed 
to check she could make her repayments out of her usual income and without 
experiencing financial difficulty or adverse consequences, in particular without incurring or 
increasing problem indebtedness. The assessment needed to be proportionate to the 
nature of the credit and Ms Gs circumstances.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did L2G complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Ms Gs application to satisfy itself that she would be 
able to make her repayments without experiencing difficulty? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did L2G make a fair 
lending decision?
Neither party has provided new information or comment for me to consider in response to 
my provisional decision. Having considered everything again carefully, my provisional 
conclusions remain unchanged and I am upholding Ms Gs complaint. For completeness, I 
have set out again my reasons for doing so. 
L2G said that it asked Ms G about her income and expenditure when she applied for her 
loan and verified some of these figures on her bank statements. It also checked her credit 
file before agreeing to lend to her. It provided the results of its assessment, including its 
credit file results and copies of the bank statements it relied on. These covered three 
months from mid-May to mid-August 2016.
L2G recorded Ms Gs income as £1,600 comprising wages of almost £900 and state 
benefits of over £700. It estimated that she spent £930 a month. Our investigator pointed 
out that some of the figures L2G used in its assessment were contradicted by the bank 
statements it had. L2G says it accepted that there may have been discrepancies but that it 
had included amounts for most of the costs the investigator mentioned including rent, 
mobile, media and car insurance.
Ms Gs credit file showed several defaulted accounts, the most recent within 12 months. 
Our investigator said that this indicated Ms G was struggling financially. L2G said that the 
adverse information it saw on the credit file was within expectations and that there was 
nothing on the bank statements to suggest that Ms G was under financial duress, for 
example returned direct debits or payments to multiple short term lenders. L2G concluded 
that further checks werent necessary and that the loan was affordable.
I started by reviewing Ms Gs account of her circumstances at the time and the 
information L2G relied on when making its lending decision. Ms G says that she began 
her own business after her part-time job ended. The information L2G had supports this. 
L2G noted in its customer contact records that Ms G was self-employed and her 
application form states she was a consultant. Ms Gs bank statements show she was 
earning money from a company in May 2016 and in June 2016 a relatively low payment 
was received entitled Endemployholpay. There were no further payments from that 
company. Ive noted merchant payments into Ms Gs account from July  just over £200 
in July and £870 in August. It seems to me Ms G had just begun trading and I dont think 
L2G had seen enough evidence to assume she would have a regular income of £900 a 
month going forward.
Ive concluded that L2G underestimated Ms Gs monthly costs. L2G recorded that Ms G 
declared an amount of £150 for rent. Ms G says her monthly rent was £620. This amount 
is shown on the bank statements, is paid monthly and is labelled as rent. I think the 
difference is significant as this alone means L2G may have underestimated Ms Gs 
monthly costs by £470.
There were other costs L2G didnt take into account, for example it didnt include any 
costs relating to Ms Gs child such as school payments and sports club costs. Ms G 
regularly paid a gym membership and was paying courts costs. All of these amounted to at least £130 a month in June and July 2016 and are easily identifiable on the bank 
statements.
Ms G says she used loans obtained through her family to pay for her business set-up 
costs and she had to meet the repayments for these. There are several large amounts 
received in June and July entitled business loan from P or S or DR [G] and a number of 
large purchases following those clearly related to beauty products. (Ms G has provided 
invoices for the purchases). There are payments from Ms Gs account labelled borrowed 
money to P [G] in June to August of £100, £150 and £160. I think L2G further 
underestimated Ms Gs expenses because it didnt take into account that she would need 
to repay these loans.
L2G says that there wasnt anything in Ms Gs credit history or management that raised 
concerns. I dont know how old the defaulted accounts were but I can see that Ms G 
had defaulted on a credit card account within the previous year. Ms Gs bank 
statements show that she had returned payments every month and incurred unpaid 
transaction charges. As mentioned, she was paying court costs and was making regular 
payments to at least one third-party collector. I think its fair to say that Ms G had a 
recent history of non-payment of debt and was not managing to meet her current 
commitments when they fell due.
Altogether, it doesnt seem to me that Ms G had enough disposable income to meet her 
loan repayments. Given her circumstances, I think it was foreseeable that she would have 
difficulty meeting her payments over the term of the loan. So, although L2G asked Ms G 
about her circumstances and had other information at its disposal, I dont think it made a 
fair lending decision. I am therefore upholding Ms Gs complaint and Ive set out below 
what L2G needs to do to put things right for her.
Putting things right
I think its fair that Ms G repays the capital she borrowed as shes had the use of this. 
However, I dont think she should be liable for any interest or charges on this amount 
or have her credit record adversely impacted.
In order to put things right for Ms G, L2G needs to:
a) Refund to Ms G all payments she made above the original amount of 
£1,700 she borrowed; and
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about this loan from Ms Gs credit file.
It seems likely that this has already happened but for completion, L2G should also 
revoke the Bill of Sale for Ms Gs car and return any relevant documents to her.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Ms G a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
  
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Ms Gs complaint about Loans 2 Go 
Limited and require it to put things right as Ive outlined.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman