DRN-2709270
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) to protect their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out PPI in 1996 to protect their mortgage. They paid a monthly amount
for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Santander had to present the policy as optional to Mr and Mrs C and gain their consent
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs C took the policy a long time ago and there is 
limited information available from the time. But this isnt surprising considering the time that 
has passed and businesses arent required to keep this type of information indefinitely.
From the information that is available I dont have enough to say Santander didnt present 
the policy as optional, or that Mr and Mrs C didnt agree to take it.
Mr and Mrs C say they took out the policy during a meeting with Santander, which I have no 
reason to disbelieve. I also think its likely Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
C, so it had to check the policy was right for them. 
Mr and Mrs C have told us they were entitled to generous sick pay and had joint savings. 
They also told us they remember the policy only coving them for 12 months. 
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Cs sick pay, and for longer than 
either of them would have received full pay. The policy would also have protected their 
savings so they could be used towards any other financial commitments they may have had. 
So, the policy seems to have been right for them.
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr and Mrs C, Santander had to give them
clear information about it  and its possible it didnt. But for the reasons Ive explained
above, I think Mr and Mrs C couldve found the policy useful. So, on balance, I dont think
better information wouldve stopped them buying it.
Ive taken all of the comments Mr and Mrs C have made into account, including that 
Santander denied them ever having a policy several times, so they may have paperwork 
from the time, and that they were pressured into taking the policy. But I dont have any 
evidence to suggest Santander would hold the sales documents from as far back as 1996, 
and while Mr and Mrs C have told us they were pressured into taking the policy, pressure is 
a subjective argument and for me to uphold this complaint for this reason I would need to 
see sufficient evidence that Mr and Mrs C were pressured into taking the policy, which I 
havent seen.
Mr and Mrs C have also said that although Santander have told us that they removed 
Mrs C from cover shortly after it was taken out, they have no recollection of doing so. But 
whether Mrs C was removed from the policy after it was sold or not has no bearing on the 
actual sale that took place several months before.
In addition to this Mr and Mrs C have stated that this type of policy was commonly mis-sold. 
But this service looks at each case on its own individual merits looking at the actual evidence 
available, so this doesnt change my decision.
So, Mr and Mrs Cs comments dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman