DRN-1936592
The complaint
Mr O complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold 
his credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr O bought the policy in June 1999 when he applied for a credit card. Barclays and Mr O 
agreed that this was a postal application and that Barclays didnt advise Mr O to take out the 
policy. Mr O said he wasnt aware the PPI had been added to his account, and the cover 
wasnt explained to him. 
The policy cost 70p for each £100 Mr O owed on his credit card, and provided accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. If hed successfully claimed on the policy, each month it 
would have paid out 10% of what he owed on the card when he stopped working. This would 
have carried on for up to 12 months per claim. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays sent in a copy of Mr Os credit card application, along with its computer records of 
Mr Os account. These are rather limited, although this is unsurprising as the credit card 
account was closed in 2014  businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. 
Barclays also told us that there was no record of PPI having been applied to the account 
after April 2001, so it appears that the PPI was cancelled before that date (this point does 
not affect my conclusions about the sale). 
I can see from the application that Mr Os name and address were pre-printed. It looks as 
though Mr O applied for the card in response to a mailshot, so Im satisfied this was a postal 
application. I can also see that Mr O ticked a box - in a section of the form headed payment 
protection plan - to say that he wanted PPI. There was another box he couldve ticked to say 
that he didnt want PPI. Theres nothing on the application form to suggest the PPI was 
compulsory. So I think Mr O was aware of the PPI and had a choice about taking it  and 
decided to do so. I think he probably just doesnt remember it as it was so long ago. 
Ive no evidence to suggest any contact with a representative from Barclays as part of the 
application process. So Im satisfied Barclays didnt advise Mr O to take out the PPI, and 
therefore it didnt have to make sure the policy was suitable for him. But it shouldve given 
him enough information for him to decide if the policy was right for him. 
The application form shows brief details of the cover, and refers to premiums being charged. 
Barclays said the application form wouldve been part of a policy leaflet, but it couldnt 
provide a copy of this. So I dont know what information Mr O wouldve had available to him 
when he filled in the application. I dont know how Barclays explained the main exclusions, 
although I cant see that Mr O wouldve been affected by any of these. I think its likely that 
the policy leaflet wouldve shown some information about the cost, such as the premium per 
£100 owed  and I think its unlikely Mr O wouldve chosen to take out the PPI without some 
idea of the cost to him - although I cant say whether it wouldve been clear to Mr O that 
interest could be charged on the premiums, or that he wouldve had to keep paying for the 
policy during a claim. 
Mr O told us that, when he took out the policy, he was entitled to sick pay from his employer 
of three months full pay followed by three months half pay. He also said didnt have any 
savings he couldve relied on. I think Mr O couldve found it difficult to make the card 
repayments once his sick pay reduced or if hed lost his job. So I think the PPI couldve 
provided a useful benefit  and Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 
months per claim, and in addition to his sick pay. 
Overall, although I cant say that Barclays fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Mr 
O would have acted differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection for him if he couldnt work. 
This means I dont think the policy was mis-sold So Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr O. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O 
because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I have concluded that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman