DRN-3377814
The complaint
Miss M says the charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to her overdraft were unfair 
and made it extremely difficult to pay off. She is also unhappy about the amount of 
compensation awarded to her following an internal review of its recoveries process.
What happened
Miss M complained to HSBC following receipt of a cheque for £50 from HSBC to 
compensate her following a review of the service she received when she went into 
recoveries. She says £50 wasnt enough and complained that the charges HSBC applied to 
her overdraft made it extremely difficult to pay off.
HSBC say that although all the correct procedures had been followed in its collections and 
recoveries team on review it couldve been better and what happened in 2019 isnt in line 
with what it would do today and compensated Miss M £50 as a gesture of goodwill. It says 
when Miss M was unable to repay her overdraft it followed the correct procedures to pursue 
the outstanding debt and that all entries recorded on Miss M credit file in relation to her bank 
account were applied correctly. Miss M was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint 
to this service.
Initially our adjudicator thought that Miss Ms bank statements showed signs of financial 
difficulty and that HSBC shouldve stepped in to help her. But on review it was found that 
there wasnt enough information available to HSBC to say it ought to have treated Miss Ms 
differently based on her financial circumstances.  
Miss M disagreed, she says the fact she exceeded her overdraft limit, had returned direct 
debit payments and excessive amounts of withdrawals to fund a gambling habit should have 
been enough for HSBC to investigate further. So the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Miss M raised her complaint in December 2020 in relation to charges applied to her 
overdraft. Six years before she raised her complaint is December 2014. And as the charges 
for use of the overdraft wouldve been notified to Miss M at the time they were being applied, 
I think she ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or causing 
financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when Miss M ought to be 
reasonably aware she had reason to complaint provides her with a longer period than the six 
year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied from December 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Miss M has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to her account. But before I 
go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss M if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Miss Ms account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Miss M was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Miss M fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Miss M unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Miss Ms statements I dont think there is enough to 
suggest that HSBC ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty prior to it being notified of this and taking steps to recover her debt. 
Following a detailed look at Miss Ms statements I can see that Miss Ms financial position 
fluctuated over the period Ive looked at  sometimes it improved, but overall it got 
progressively worse  until HSBC stepped in and the account went to recoveries. But I dont 
think from what Ive seen that HSBC shouldve stepped in earlier. 
Miss M regularly utilised her £400 overdraft and at times exceeded this. But I can also see 
she had low committed outgoings and was often able to bring her account back into credit 
with a regular income and at times made cash transfers to other accounts. 
Miss M may argue her regular and high use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that 
she was struggling and that the excessive cash withdrawals to fund a gambling habit 
shouldve been enough to warrant further investigation by HSBC. But there is no evidence 
that HSBC were informed of her gambling or that it could tell what the cash withdrawals were 
being used for. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Miss M wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. 
But there isnt enough on the statements in themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to 
any potential financial difficulty.
So I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with adding the interest, fees 
and charges it did in light of how Miss Ms account was being used. Miss M is also unhappy about the amount of compensation HSBC offered following review of 
its recoveries process. But HSBC did correctly follow its procedure at the time and the £50 
compensation was an acknowledgement that it couldve done better but that no mistake was 
made. So, as no error was made, I think that the compensation paid was fair and reasonable 
and in-line with what I would expect.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC Bank Plc treated Miss 
M unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman