DRN-2497903
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a vehicle bought on finance with Specialist Motor 
Finance Limited (SMF).
  
What happened
Mr M took out a hire purchase agreement for a car in September 2019. He says he noticed 
issues with the clutch and a smell of fumes in the vehicle within days. He complained to the 
dealership where he bought the car and when they wouldnt help him, he complained to SMF 
and asked to reject the vehicle.
Mr M says the dealership were going to MOT the car before he bought it, but they paid him 
the price of an MOT test instead. SMF asked for evidence of the faults when he complained 
to them, so he had a pre-MOT test check carried out. Mr M provided a note from a garage to 
SMF detailing work that would need to be done on the vehicle in order for it to pass an MOT.
SMF arranged for the vehicle to be collected in October 2019. An MOT was performed on 31 
October 2019 which the vehicle passed. SMF wrote to Mr M in November to confirm that 
there were no faults with the vehicle, and that he should collect it from the dealership as he 
was unable to reject it. 
Mr M says he didnt think any of the faults hed highlighted had been fixed, and he wasnt 
confident the MOT had been completed correctly. He complained to SMF again, who 
appointed a third party to complete an inspection in December 2019. 
Following the third-party inspection, SMF wrote to Mr M to confirm that any faults found had 
occurred since the MOT pass in October 2019, and there was no evidence that the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M bought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr M, and thought the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied. They recommended that the finance agreement be cancelled, and the payments 
returned to Mr M. 
SMF didnt agree, they said a reasonable person wouldnt expect a car of this age and 
mileage to pass an MOT, and they think it was of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied. They say Mr M is unable to reject the car as its been repossessed. As an 
agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. SMF as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £6,000. It was five years old 
and had travelled approximately 91,500 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires 
a used car like Mr Ms, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that 
of a new or younger/lower mileage second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and 
this is reflective of the fact that the car is more road worn. The chance of encountering a 
serious issue sooner, is higher.
Mr M says he noticed problems with the vehicle within days of acquiring it. Ive seen 
evidence of a report obtained by Mr M, and given to SMF in late September 2019, which 
details work required on the vehicle. This includes, among other things, an exhaust or turbo 
leak that requires further investigation. 
Mr M provided this report to SMF, and the vehicle was collected. SMF told Mr M itd passed 
its MOT in October 2019 and he should collect the vehicle, but Mr M didnt think the required 
work had been completed. So, a second inspection was undertaken in December 2019. The 
report from this inspection found an audible leak from the exhaust or turbo requiring further 
investigation. It also found other similar issues to the ones identified in Mr Ms report, 
including some electrical faults, along with a coolant leak that was noted to have been 
ongoing at the point of sale. 
The report concludes that as the vehicle passed its MOT, the majority of the issues must 
have occurred since, otherwise they wouldve been spotted at the time. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr M collected the vehicle after the MOT was 
completed in October, or that it was in his possession at all between the time it was collected 
and the time of this inspection. 
The faults highlighted on the second inspection are the same, or similar, to the ones 
identified in Mr Ms inspection. The vehicle also underwent another MOT in April 2020, 
where similar problems were again identified. So, it seems more likely that the faults 
identified in the second inspection were present before the vehicle was collected from Mr M, 
and not rectified when the MOT was completed in October 2019. 
The engineer that completed the report in December 2019 identified the coolant leak as a 
major issue which was present at the time of sale. It seems there was also a problem with a 
leak from the exhaust or turbo, requiring investigation, and that this was present very shortly 
after Mr M acquired the vehicle. All things considered, I dont think a reasonable person 
would expect these major problems to have occurred so soon after purchasing the vehicle. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at 
the time of supply. 
Having made that finding I need to decide what, if anything, SMF should do to put things 
right. When Mr M notified SMF of the faults they arranged for the vehicle to be collected. The 
vehicle had some repairs completed and underwent an MOT. The same issues notified by 
Mr M were then identified at the inspection in December 2019. So, I find that SMF had an 
opportunity to repair the vehicle as is afforded to them under the Consumer Rights Act. As 
the goods werent returned to a satisfactory condition following this repair, Mr M is entitled to 
his final right to reject the vehicle.
SMF say they later repossessed the vehicle, so theres no requirement for them to collect it 
from Mr M now. But any outstanding agreement should be bought to an end and Mr Ms 
deposit of £500 be refunded (plus interest). 
SMF have said that there was cosmetic damage to the vehicle when it was collected from Mr 
M and that he should be liable for this.
Mr M has provided the document completed at collection of the vehicle on 24 October 2019 
which identifies a scratch to a panel of the vehicle. Mr M has also provided an appraisal form 
for the vehicle prior to when he acquired it, which appears to show the same scratch. 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests that these scratches arent the same, or that the 
scratch identified prior to Mr M taking ownership of the vehicle was repaired. So, Im satisfied 
that there was no cosmetic damage caused to the vehicle whilst it was in Mr Ms possession 
that SMF can now charge for. 
Mr M had use of the vehicle for around five days before its MOT expired, and he raised the 
faults with SMF. After it was collected in October 2019 Mr M didnt use the vehicle again. So, 
I find that SMF should refund any payments made by Mr M that relate to the use of the 
vehicle from the date of collection on 24 October 2019 and write off any outstanding arrears. 
SMF say that Mr M drove the vehicle a substantial number of miles in the time that he did 
own it, so they should be able to make a charge for these miles. They calculate this charge 
to be £327.75 at 25 pence per mile.
The Consumer Rights Act allows for a reduction in any refund due for use, to reflect the use 
the consumer had of the goods. Mr M drove his vehicle around 1,500 miles in the five days 
that he had use of it, due to travelling long distances for work. As this is a significant number 
of miles, Im satisfied that SMF is entitled to make such a deduction from the refund to Mr M. 
The agreement between Mr M and SMF doesnt specify what charge might be made per 
mile in situations such as this. Mileage charges range significantly, but on balance, Im 
satisfied that £327.75 is a reasonable deduction to make for the use of the vehicle that Mr M 
had. 
Finally, Mr M has experienced distress and inconvenience in completing reports to evidence 
faults and finding alternative transport whilst he was without his vehicle. SMF should pay 
£100 compensation to reflect this.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to: 
End the finance agreement and remove it and any adverse information from Mr Ms 
credit file
Refund Mr Ms deposit of £500Refund 100% of the monthly rental payments made by Mr M that relate to use of the 
car from 24 October 2019. SMF can deduct £327.75 from this refund for the use that 
Mr M had of the vehicle. 
Waive any outstanding arrears. 
Pay Mr M £100 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
SMF should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
If SMF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman