DRN-2835547
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr G acquired a used car via a four-year hire purchase agreement. 
The car was nine years old and had a mileage of 48,000.
On his way home from collecting the car Mr G noticed a problem with the cars gearbox. 
He says that the car was returned to the dealership who agreed to fit a reconditioned one 
and also repair the alternator. The repairs were carried out in December 2019 and the 
car returned to Mr G.
Mr G says that there were no further issues with the car until February 2020 when he 
experienced a loss of power and heard a knocking noise from the engine bay. He was 
able to make a video of the fault. Mr G decided to take the car to a third-party garage. Mr 
G says he was advised that the con rods had gone, and the bottom end bearings had 
failed.
Mr G says the dealership wasnt prepared to assist him and so he complained to 
MotoNovo. MotoNovo arranged for the car to be independently inspected.
The independent engineer reported that they had found the engine in the car to be seized 
meaning they could only carry out a a very limited inspection as the engine now needed 
to be dismantled for an investigation to be carried out. They said, looking at the video that 
had been provided by Mr G, that the problems with the car were consistent with the 
crankshaft and crank bearings being damaged.
The independent engineer said that in their opinion the faults couldnt have been 
present from the point of sale as the car hadnt been sold in this condition.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint due to the findings of the independent 
engineer. Mr G disagreed with MotoNovos decision and complained to this service. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld and said it was 
fair for Mr G to reject the car as being of unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. She 
said that the faults had all arisen in the first six-months of the agreement and disagreed 
with MotoNovo that the evidence presented had been insufficient to show that they 
werent present from the point of sale.
Our investigator also said that due to the parts involved in the second set of faults she 
thought it was likely these issues were linked to the earlier gearbox and alternator 
repairs carried out in December 2019 by the dealership.
She recommended that not only should the car be returned but that Mr G should also be 
reimbursed his deposit, his monthly payments made from February 2020 and receive 
£100 compensation for having to deal with the faulty car.
MotoNovo disagreed with our investigators view. It said that Mr G had been able to travel 
9,000 miles in the car since the point of sale which showed it had been of satisfactory 
quality and that there was no evidence that the earlier repairs had failed or were linked 
with the cars current faults.
Mr G asked to be able to keep the car as it had now been repaired and instead, he wished 
to be reimbursed the costs of those repairs and for the time he took to work on it.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality 
of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all 
other relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasn't new being nine years old and with a mileage of 48,000. I thought 
that, considering these things, a reasonable person would have expected there to be 
issues with maintenance and repair over time since components of the car would have 
been subject to wear and tear through use. So, unlike a new car, there wouldnt have 
been the expectation that the car was fault free.
However, the car had required repairs to its gearbox and alternator shortly after Mr G 
had acquired it. Looking at the job cards that had been supplied for these repairs, Id 
seen that there was a new alternator fitted and the gearbox was cleaned with some 
new parts fitted.
After the repairs, the car was returned to Mr G and he said he was able to drive it 
without any difficulties. I assumed that it was from December 2019 until February 2020 
that Mr G had achieved the bulk of his mileage which would mean he was using it 
more than average. 
Id seen that the independent engineer inspected the car around two weeks after it had 
lost power and developed a knocking noise while Mr G had been driving. By this time 
the cars engine had seized and the independent engineers inspection was very 
limited. They did have the benefit of watching the video provided by Mr G as to the 
symptoms the car had been displaying.
MotoNovo was relying on the independent engineers report and the number of miles 
driven by Mr G to show that the current faults werent present and developing at the 
point of supply. Under the Consumer Rights Act if a fault develops in the first six 
months then theres a presumption that it would have been developing or present from 
the point of sale unless it can be established that was not the case. The onus here falls 
on MotoNovo to show that the car was of satisfactory condition.
But I didnt find the independent engineers report persuasive. This was because of 
the very limited inspection they had undertaken and that they had made no reference at all to any earlier repairs. I was unclear if they had been aware of the issues the car 
had suffered at the time Mr G had acquired it. All the independent engineer was able 
to say was that at the time of sale the car wouldnt have been in its current condition 
and that based on the sale date and elapsed mileage there was no reason to 
suggest the condition was developing at the point of sale.
Looking at the earlier repairs and the faults that were then considered to be the cause 
of the cars breakdown in February 2020, I didnt think I could reasonably say there 
wasnt a connection. I also didnt have any evidence that the number of miles driven by 
Mr G would have ruled this out.
I also thought that although the car was of an age and mileage where repairs and 
maintenance would have been expected by a reasonable person after a reasonable 
period of time, that this would have been longer than five months after acquiring the 
car. And I thought this even taking into account the actual mileage Mr G had 
achieved. So, I was satisfied that the car wasnt as durable as would be reasonable 
expected and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
As the car had been subject to one attempt at repair by the dealership which had then 
failed, I thought Mr G was entitled to now reject the car and have the agreement 
unwound. This was also the recommendation of our investigator. However, Mr G had 
asked if he could keep the car as hed arranged repairs including having a new engine 
fitted. He asked for the cost of the repairs to be reimbursed.
While I appreciated why Mr G has made this decision unfortunately, he wasnt able to 
provide me with proof of all the expenses he had met. He also asked if he could charge 
for the labour, hed put in fixing the car. However, without the necessary invoices, there 
were items I didnt think I could fairly ask MotoNovo to reimburse, and this included the 
time Mr G had worked on the car. This was because I needed to be satisfied that there 
had been a substantiated financial loss to Mr G. In regard to the time hed spent fixing 
the car, though I could understand why hed done so, I couldnt reasonable say he 
hadnt chosen to spend his time fixing his car.
So, looking at the paperwork provided by Mr G I accepted the garage invoice for the 
labour in replacing the gearbox and removing and replacing the engine which amounted 
to £900. I also accepted that Mr G purchased parts including a replacement engine for 
the car amounting to £560, £31.14 and £26.34. He had also fitted a timing belt kit for 
£109.19. So, I asked MotoNovo to reimburse him all those amounts which totalled 
£1,626.67. 
Mr G had asked that MotoNovo reimbursed him the cost of having to buy a second car 
while this car couldnt be used. As Mr G hadnt had use of this car between February 
and September 2020, I asked MotoNovo to reimburse any instalments paid by him 
under the agreement with interest. But I didnt ask it to cover the second cars costs in 
addition to that reimbursement. Repaying those instalments reflected the period Mr G 
wasnt able to use the car and would have faced additional travel costs so I thought that 
was sufficient in the circumstances.
Finally, I asked MotoNovo to pay Mr G £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience of dealing with the faulty car.
For these reasons I was intending to partially uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G has agreed with my provisional decision. But MotoNovo has disagreed. It said that the 
details of the first repairs had been passed to the independent engineer who said in their opinion there was no link between those repairs and the later fault that had required the car 
to have a new engine.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On reviewing the evidence and in particular the report from the independent engineer, I 
havent changed my view. I havent seen any evidence that the independent engineer was 
aware of the previous repairs as there no reference to that in their report. Nor have I seen 
any addendum written by them as a follow up to that report setting out any opinion about the 
earlier repairs not being linked to the subsequent fault. So, I am still unclear whether the 
independent engineer was aware of the cars repair history.
And, as set out above, the independent engineer was clear that due to the seized engine 
their inspection could only be very limited and cursory. All they could say was the engine 
was seized for a reason unknown. They did acknowledge that they thought the video 
provided by Mr G showed evidence consistent with crankshaft or crank bearing damage. So, 
taking into account the very restricted inspection of the car I cant say that any link to earlier 
repairs was ruled out. And even if the independent engineer was of that view, as I am 
unclear how they would have reached it based on the short time they spent inspecting the 
car, I would still not give it much weight when looking at all the other evidence. 
I agree with the independent engineer that the cars engine wouldnt have been seized at the 
point of supply, but I still think its more likely than not that the subsequent issue with the car 
was linked to the earlier fault and repairs that were undertaken to the alternator and gearbox. 
I have seen no convincing explanation as to why there wouldnt be any connection. 
In light of the above as Mr G has accepted my proposed settlement for his complaint, I dont 
need to re-consider that. 
So, for the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint.  
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
Reimburse Mr G the repair costs of £1,626.67 together with interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Reimburse Mr G the instalments he has paid under the agreement between 
February 2020 and September 2020 together with interest at the yearly rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr G the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience for having to deal with the faulty car.
My final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. Im asking MotoNovo 
Finance Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mr G the repair costs of £1,626.67 together with interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.Reimburse Mr G the instalments he has paid under the agreement between 
February 2020 and September 2020 together with interest at the yearly rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr G the sum of £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience for having to deal with the faulty car.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman