DRN-2462338
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs S took out (jointly with 
her husband, who has since died) with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. She complains that 
Aviva levied an early repayment charge (ERC) when she sold her house, redeemed the 
mortgage and moved into warden-controlled sheltered housing provided by a charity. The 
complaint has been brought by Mr D, a friend of Mrs S.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words to do so. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the 
informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs S and her husband took the mortgage out in 2002. The terms of the mortgage provide 
that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be 
repaid if the last surviving borrower goes into full-time residential nursing care or after their 
death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an 
ERC is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mrs S husband died in 2016, after which she found living alone extremely difficult and 
stressful. In 2018, Mrs S sold and moved into sheltered housing; Aviva levied an ERC on 
redemption of the mortgage. When Mr D raised this with Aviva on Mrs S behalf, Aviva 
issued forms to be completed by Mrs S doctor in order that it could assess her 
circumstances. Based on the doctors reply, Aviva wasnt persuaded it should waive the 
ERC. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr D asked for the case 
to be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt Mrs S circumstances are difficult, but what I have to decide is whether Aviva 
has treated Mrs S fairly. The starting point is the terms of the mortgage agreement; Mrs S, 
along with her husband, agreed to be bound by them when they took out the equity release 
loan in 2002. 
Mr D says Mrs S was guided by her husband in all financial matters (he describes theirs as 
an old-fashioned marriage) and wouldnt have known about the ERC provision until she 
decided to move. I take his point, but without wishing to sound unkind, that was a personal 
matter between them, and not something Aviva needs to take into account. 
The mortgage agreement allows for the ERC not to be levied if the mortgage is being repaid 
either because the last surviving borrower has died or is required to move into full-time 
residential care. Ive used the word required because the agreement specifies in some 
detail how Aviva will assess whether such a move has happened by necessity rather than 
desire.
In Mrs S case, Aviva did what Id expect it to do, by asking for information from Mrs S 
doctor; the information it asks for is in a prescribed form (and includes an assessment of 
mental capacity) consistent with the assessment criteria specified in the mortgage 
agreement and must be provided by a suitably-qualified medical professional.
Unfortunately, for reasons that I have no remit to investigate, Mrs S doctor declined to 
provide the detailed assessment Aviva had asked for, but simply wrote in general terms to 
say she supported Mrs S desire to move into sheltered accommodation. When Aviva 
pressed Mr D for the more detailed information it needed, he replied saying Her current GP 
is apparently unable to give the information you requested. 
Instead, Mr D provided, in confidence, the statement given in support of Mrs S request for 
sheltered accommodation. I dont reveal any of the detail of its contents here, to preserve 
Mrs S privacy, but Ive read it in full and considered everything therein. 
Having done so, I dont doubt that Mrs S felt a very strong desire to relocate. Indeed, the 
writer of the statement (the name has been redacted but theres no indication the writer was 
medically-qualified) concludes by saying [Mrs S] desperately wants to move into sheltered 
accommodation and this application was her idea.
(My emphasis on both occasions.)
I dont consider that fairness required Aviva to accept the confidential statement in lieu of the 
full and detailed assessment it had asked for and Mrs S doctor had declined to provide. The 
statement shows no sign of having been prepared by a suitably-qualified medical 
professional. 
For Aviva to waive the ERC, the move that prompted Mrs S to sell and redeem the mortgage 
would have had to be driven by need rather than want. And whilst the impetus for the move 
could come from Mrs S initially, it needed to be endorsed formally by a suitably-qualified 
medical professional. Neither of those criteria have been met here.
I understand and appreciate Mrs S found Avivas levying of an ERC unwelcome; but for the reasons Ive set out, it wasnt unfair, and thats the test I have to apply
.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman