DRN-1995842
The complaint
Miss F is complaining about Lloyds Bank PLC. She says they mis-sold her critical illness and 
life cover (CILC) policy in 2007 and shes not happy with the redress theyve offered her. 
What happened
In 2007, Miss F was looking to take out a mortgage and met with a representative from 
Lloyds to discuss financial protection. She was sold a reducing term CILC policy, and 
thought she would be covered for the full amount and full term of her mortgage. 
In 2019, Miss F looked into selling the house. It was then that she realised that the CILC 
policy didnt cover her for the full amount of the mortgage. She complained to Lloyds. They 
apologised and agreed that the CILC policy had been mis-sold. They said that the shortfall in 
cover had arisen because Miss F had been sold a reducing term policy which wasnt suitable 
for an interest only mortgage. They said she should have been sold a level term policy 
instead.
To put things right, Lloyds said they would guarantee to make up the shortfall in cover if 
Miss F made a claim in the following three months (from October 2019 to January 2020). 
They said Miss F would need to look for an alternative policy to ensure she had enough 
protection after January 2020. And they said theyd pay any additional cost of that new policy 
if it was more expensive than the level term policy she should have been sold in 2007.
Lloyds said in the same letter that if Miss F had made a claim while she was under-insured 
they would have made up the shortfall. And they said that if shed been sold the appropriate 
level term policy she would have had to pay more each month  they said it would have 
been £50.78 per month instead of £39.05.
Miss F wasnt happy with Lloyds response so she brought her complaint to our service. She 
was upset that shed been paying premiums for 12 years but wouldnt have been covered. 
Our investigators view was that Lloyds had made a fair offer and didnt need to do any more 
to put things right but Miss F remained unhappy  so her complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Ive decided not to ask Lloyds to do any more  Ill explain why. I wont 
look at the circumstances of the sale and whether or not her CILC policy was mis-sold 
because Lloyds have already admitted that it was. Ill just look at what Lloyds should have 
done to put things right for Miss F.
In circumstances like these, where a business has got something wrong, I look at what 
needs to be done to put the consumer back into the position theyd have been in if the 
business hadnt done anything wrong.
In Miss Fs case, Ive looked at the documents from around the time she took out the CILC 
policy. And Ive thought about what shes said more recently about the shortfall on her CILC 
policy. Its clear to me she wanted protection in 2007 and is still keen to ensure that shes 
covered. So, Im satisfied Miss F should have been sold a level term CILC policy in 2007 
instead of the reducing term policy. 
Lloyds have explained that a level term CILC policy would have cost Miss F more than her 
reducing term CILC policy did. So, theres no refund due to Miss F. 
Miss Fs told us she thinks Lloyds should refund all the premiums shes paid over the last 12 
years. But I cant fairly ask them to do that. She wanted financial protection and although her 
policy didnt offer her quite the right level of protection, it covered the majority of her 
mortgage. And Lloyds have said if she had needed to make a claim on her policy they would 
have recognised their error and paid any shortfall. So, in effect, Miss Fs had the benefit of 
the cover she wanted, and at a lower cost compared to what she would have paid had it 
been arranged correctly. I understand Miss F feels this policy wouldnt have paid out if she 
had made a claim, but Ive not seen anything to suggest this was the case. Lloyds have 
explained they wouldve addressed the shortfall as this was caused by an error they made.
Miss F said the three-month guarantee Lloyds offered her wasnt meaningful because it was 
highly unlikely shed need to claim during that time. But in my opinion, this was a fair offer as 
it allowed Miss F time to arrange an alternative CILC policy with the right amount of cover.
From what Lloyds have said, if Miss F had been sold the right policy in 2007 it would have 
cost her £50.78 per month (for 25 years). So, she shouldnt have to pay more than this for 
equivalent cover for the remaining 12 years of her mortgage. But Lloyds offered to pay any 
additional cost of the replacement cover. I can see they explained to Miss F how to go about 
sorting this out with them and Im satisfied their approach was fair.
Miss F hasnt taken Lloyds up on their offer  instead shes told us shes arranged separate 
cover for the shortfall. 
I appreciate that Miss F might have been upset and anxious when she found out that her 
CILC policy didnt cover the whole of her mortgage. And I realise its an inconvenience to 
sort it out and arrange another policy. But, as Ive explained, Miss F has effectively had 12 
years of cover at a much lower cost than she should have. And Lloyds gave her three 
months additional cover. Im satisfied this is enough to compensate Miss F for her 
inconvenience and upset. 
Taking all of this together, Im satisfied that Lloyds offer to Miss F was fair. Im not asking 
them to do anything further.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC made a fair 
offer to settle the complaint. Miss F should contact them directly if she now wishes to accept 
the offer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020. 
Clare King
Ombudsman