DRN-3225067
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Close Brothers Limited (CBL) because it set up a finance 
agreement in his name in respect of insurance cover  but Mr B hadnt applied for this cover 
or agreement. 
What happened
Mr B was notified of a finance agreement that had been set up in his name for payment of a 
car insurance policy. Mr B called CBL straightaway as he hadnt given his details or sought 
to set up an agreement to finance car insurance payments. CBL notified its fraud team but, 
in the meantime, a payment had been requested which was subsequently returned unpaid. 
This meant that Mr B was chased by CBL for the outstanding payment. 
CBL accepted that Mr B had been a victim of identity theft. It amended its own records and 
Mr Bs credit file so there was no data on there that might have a negative impact on Mr Bs 
scoring. It cancelled the agreement and apologised.
When Mr B complained to us, our investigator felt CBL had acted fairly and reasonably to 
resolve the situation Mr B had found himself in. But Mr B said he was specifically concerned 
that CBL hadnt done enough checks to verify the application when setting the arrangement 
up. For example, Mr B said that the date of birth was wrong, this should have been spotted 
by CBL and triggered further checks which would have caused it to discover the fraudulent 
nature of the application before it was arranged. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made. I was minded to uphold the 
complaint as I felt CBL had failed Mr B, causing him upset and it should pay £100 
compensation as a result. My findings were:
 Ive considered Mr Bs concerns about CBLs actions when arranging the policy. This has 
given me cause to think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. So Im issuing a provisional 
decision to share my views with both parties and allow them a chance to respond before I 
make a final decision. 
At the outset Id emphasise that this service is not the regulator. Nor do we act as the 
enforcer for the regulator. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority. Our service acts 
as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look 
at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into 
account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings about whether a financial 
business has failed its customer in any way. Where we find it has, we make awards 
designed to make the business put things right with the complainant customer. Our awards 
are not designed to punish a business or to make it change the way it acts in order to protect 
other customers in the future. That is the role of the regulator.
So Ive looked at what happened here between Mr B and CBL. I note, as our investigator 
did, that once CBL was aware that the application it had received, purportedly from Mr B, 
was likely not genuine, it acted to try and resolve things. Unfortunately it seems that the 
action CBL began to take came at a time when a payment had already been called for. And, 
as that payment was rejected, CBLs, and the insurers, systems generated automatic letters 
chasing Mr B for payment. CBL has apologised for the upset caused in this respect, and its 
acted to ensure Mr B isnt further negatively affected. I think thats reasonable.
But Mr B is most concerned that when CBL originally received the application for a credit 
agreement made in his name it didnt do sufficient checks to safeguard the application had 
come from him. He thinks it should have, for example, spotted that the date of birth given on 
the form was not his date of birth. If it had, Mr B thinks, the account would have been 
stopped before any payments were called for. So Ive considered what happened before 
CBL accepted the application and whether I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In 2016 the FCA issued guidance to consumer credit businesses. This was designed to help 
them understand what the FCA expected from them regarding protecting against financial 
crime. The guide explains that businesses should 
identify and assess the financial crime risks to which your business is exposed. This risk 
assessment should be proportionate to the nature and scale of your firms activities, taking 
into account a range of factors, such as the products and services you offer and the way in 
which your transactions are conducted
The guide doesnt go so far as to specify exactly what steps each business should take to 
safeguard against financial crime. Given Mr B is concerned that his personal name and 
address details were used to create a fraudulent finance agreement, I think its appropriate 
that I consider what happened and what CBL did in light of the FCA guidance.
In arranging this particular finance agreement, CBL hadnt dealt directly with the applicant. 
Rather the insurance broker had handled the insurance application and taken all the 
necessary details for the application for finance, which was then submitted to CBL. 
CBL has shown me its terms of business with the broker. These say that the broker warrants 
that all details given in the application are correct and that reasonable checks have been 
done to ensure that the broker isnt aware of anything which, if CBL knew the same thing, 
would prevent CBL from offering the finance. The FCA guidance talks about risks being 
assessed by financial businesses in line with the way in which transactions are done. I can 
understand that here CBL viewed the risk presented by the application purporting to be from 
Mr B as limited because it was presented by a broker under the above mentioned terms of 
business agreement.
CBL has further explained that at the time of the application in question here, because of the 
way it was generated and then received, it completed very little in the way of checks. All it 
did was make sure that one of the credit reference agencies showed that the applicant 
named, lived at the address given. Because Mr Bs name was given as the applicant and his 
correct address was used, CBL didnt identify any issues of concern with the application. 
But I think there is an inherent difficulty for CBL in this respect. The arrangement it had with 
the broker effectively meant the broker, in being responsible for verifying the application, was 
acting as an agent for CBL. As Im not the regulator, I cant reasonably dictate what checks 
should be done by a business arranging a credit agreement. But Mr B says the date of birth 
given didnt match his date of birth. I think an applicants date of birth is an easily checkable 
identification marker that most financial business would seek to verify when arranging a 
contract. It seems that the broker didnt check this here  or if it had the fraudulent nature of 
the application would likely have come to light before CBL was passed the application. That, 
naturally and as Mr B has said, would have meant that everything which happened after  not just the credit checks, which CBL has acted to resolve, but also the call for payment and 
debt collection letters, which CBL has said were unavoidable  was avoided. 
Bearing in mind the regulatory guidance and the agreement CBL had with the broker at the 
time of this application, I dont think CBL acted reasonably to check the application details for 
the finance agreement put forward in Mr Bs name. CBL has chosen to conduct its business 
via an agreement with the broker. Theres nothing wrong in that, and its up to CBL if it 
wishes to trade in that way. But CBL cant then, reasonably, just discharge its responsibility 
as a lender to another business. Rather CBL, in acting in the course of such an arrangement 
retains liability for what the other business does under the authority delegated to it under the 
terms of business arrangement.
CBL said it disagreed with my findings as the checks that had been carried out were, in its 
view, appropriate and proportionate, given the guidelines in place. And, it said, the broker 
had sought to undertake further verification of Mr Bs identity within two days of the policy 
being set up. But, it said, that whilst it didnt agree with the basis for my decision, it 
recognised Mr B had received letters which he should not have done. So CBL said it would 
honour my compensation award.
Mr B said there were a number of incorrect details within the policy application  not just an 
incorrect date of birth  that should have been red flags for CBL, such that the application 
shouldnt have been accepted. He said that businesses like CBL have technology at their 
disposal which can quickly check identity details and something like this should have been 
used here. And he doesnt believe the letters he received are automatically generated. Mr B 
said he felt my compensation figure was derisory and wasnt enough to ensure CBL took this 
matter seriously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise CBL thinks it, and its agent, did sufficient checks. But it hasnt explained why it 
thinks it was appropriate and proportionate, in light of the guidance, for the date of birth 
detail to not be checked. As I said provisionally, I think this is a simple and clear verification 
marker which, in this instance, if checked would have shown the application wasnt genuine. 
I think there is a clear risk to CBL of fraudulent applications being made and a simple check 
like this would seem to be a proportionate response to help off-set that risk by preventing a 
fraudulent application being accepted. And I note that Mr B says the date of birth detail was 
but one error which should have caused CBL to spot this application wasnt genuine.
Further, the agent did decide to undertake further checks after accepting the application. In 
this case that left Mr B exposed to the upset caused by the fraudulent application having 
been accepted in the first instance, with it only being checked as an afterthought. 
That said I note CBL has said it will agree to my compensation award. I note it says it agrees 
to pay this without admitting any liability. But if Mr B accepts my final decision CBLs failure 
and responsibility for the upset Mr B was caused will be recorded as a matter of fact.
Im not sure what technology CBL has at its disposal, and it isnt for me to seek to dictate 
how CBL operates. Nor is it for me to punish CBL, nor to make awards designed to make it 
take matters seriously. As I explained provisionally, this service is not the regulator, and 
those type of activities are much more within the regulators remit than ours. My job is to 
assess, in the specific instance of the complaint before me, what happened. Then, what, if anything the business did wrong, and then to decide what it must do to put things right for 
that particular complainant. That is what Ive done here.
Letters like those received by Mr B are often system generated, they usually dont require or 
entail any manual input. But however the letters sent to Mr B were generated  he shouldnt 
have received them. Im satisfied he only did so because CBL failed him by not carrying out 
appropriate and proportionate checks before the application, fraudulently made in his name, 
was accepted and put in place. And the fact he received them caused him upset. In this 
instance I remain of the view that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable redress to make 
up for the upset CBLs failures caused Mr B.
Putting things right
Its unfortunate Mr B was the subject of a fraudulent application that ended up with CBL for 
processing and Im glad he became aware of it early enough so further harm or impact on 
him could be prevented. In saying that I note CBL acted in a reasonably timely manner once 
notified and took reasonable steps to put Mr B back in the position he would have been in 
had the fraudulent application not been processed. But, as I said above, I think, if CBL/its 
agents had acted to check the date of birth given on the application, the upset Mr B was 
caused by the call for payment and debt collection letters being sent could have been 
avoided too. I require CBL to pay Mr B £100 compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Close Brothers Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman