DRN-3741357
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, has decided not to refund her 
after she was the victim of a scam.
Miss E has appointed a representative to bring her complaint.
What happened
Miss E met someone through an online dating website. Miss E says he shared pictures of 
himself with his family and said he had a similar profession to hers  all which made it seem 
genuine and plausible. After a few weeks he persuaded her that she could invest money in 
crypto-currency to earn a good return. Miss E says he shared the profits he was making with 
a particular crypto-currency company and shared photos of his portfolio all of which 
persuaded her she should also invest. 
Miss E said she checked the company website and it had a live chat feature which 
reassured her it was genuine. She didnt carry out any further checks (for example on 
companies house) as the company said it was based in the USA. She was sent a link and 
given a username and password to access the account.
Miss E had an existing crypto currency platform account provided by L, which had been 
open for at least a year prior. Miss E sent funds from her Halifax bank account and another 
bank account to her account with L. She says she then sent money on from her account with 
L to purchase cyrpto-currency, and thought she was purchasing bitcoin. After seeing an 
initial small return, she invested further funds. When she was asked to pay a management 
fee and she explained she didnt have any more money the scam was revealed.
 
Miss E made a payment of £5,950 from her account and this was stopped by Halifax. This 
was followed by a telephone conversation where Miss E was asked questions about the 
payment and some warnings were given. Miss E decided to continue with the payment. 
Halifax decided not to refund Miss E. In summary it concluded the type of payment wasnt 
covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) and when it went on to consider 
whether it had any other liability it decided it didnt. Miss E had authorised the payment and 
when it intervened it asked questions and advised her of the risks and she decided to 
proceed with the payment so it couldnt have done anything else to prevent her losses.
Miss E didnt accept the banks findings and brought the complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things. He said: 
- Because the payment Miss E made from her Halifax bank account was to another 
crypto account, held her name, it wasnt covered by the CRM.
- Halifax discussed the payment with her before it was made. Having listened to the 
call between them, he said Miss E sounded confident and when asked questions she 
said she was experienced in purchasing crypto-currency and she said she 
understood the risks involved in doing so. 
- Although Halifax could have done more to highlight what crypto scams can feel like 
he didnt think this would have stopped Miss E from making the payment given what 
she had said about how she was convinced to make the payments and that she 
thought the company she was using looked genuine and she had already seen 
realistic returns. 
- And, although Halifax didnt ask further probing questions, he was satisfied she was 
asked a reasonable set of questions and her answers indicated she was 
experienced, she understood the risks and she had researched the company she 
was dealing with. 
- The bank wouldnt have ultimately prevented Miss Es losses.
Miss Es representatives disagreed with the investigators findings. It said Miss E wouldnt 
have continued with the payment if Halifax had given her any warnings or raised concerns. 
Halifax had an opportunity to ask questions and give a fraud warning when it spoke to her. 
As it didnt accept the investigators findings it asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with investigators findings that this type of payment isnt covered by the CRM. So, 
the starting position is that as Miss E authorised the payment, the bank doesnt need to 
refund her. Unless Im persuaded that it ought to have stopped the payment because it was 
so unusual or suspicious that it ought to have had concerns that Miss E was the victim of a 
scam. 
Having considered this, whilst I agree the questioning by the bank could have been better, I 
dont think it would have ultimately exposed the scam or prevented Miss Es losses. So, I 
dont think it needs to refund her for her losses here. Ill go on to explain why.
- Miss E was transferring money to her own crypto account with L. Something she had 
done on a previous occasion (and for a higher amount). So Im not persuaded that 
the payment itself was particularly unusual, or out of character, so much so that the 
bank ought to have been concerned that Miss E could be the victim of a scam. But it 
did go on to intervene in the payment, so I have carefully considered this interaction. 
- Having listened to the call, Miss E starts the conversation by saying she is the one 
making the transaction and she has not been coerced. Shes asked if shes sent 
money to L before, to which she says yes, and shes asked if anyone else has 
access to that account to which she says no. Shes then asked if a third party has 
asked her make the payment, she says no. Miss E is then asked questions to 
uncover any potential safe account scam  (where a scammer might pretend to be 
the bank or another official person - saying her money is at risk and she needs to 
move it) and shes asked about remote access. Shes asked about money being 
received into her account and Miss E explains shed transferred the funds in from her 
other bank account and normally sends money to L from that account but shed 
reached her limit so needed to send it from her Halifax account. Miss E is then told 
that once the funds are released, they cant be recovered, and shes asked to confirm 
that no-one has contacted her and asked her to make this payment - Miss E confirms 
thats the case. Shes asked if she purchases crytpo-currency often and she says 
yes, and shes asked if she understands the risks in doing so  Miss E responds and 
says yes very aware. Shes then asked some further questions about how she logs into her account (to determine if her account has been compromised in anyway) and 
if she currently has access to it  which she says she does.
- Im satisfied that there is some attempt by the bank, to uncover if Miss E could be the 
victim of a scam. Miss E isnt questioned about the specifics of investment she is 
making or why she is making it. But even if she was questioned further, Im not 
persuaded she would have gone into the detail about her personal circumstances 
that led to her decision to transfer money to L. Miss E was asked several times if she 
was asked by someone else to make the payment and she says no  at which point, 
she could have explained that she had been advised to make the investment but 
she chose not to share that information with the bank. And there wasnt anything 
about what Miss E said that ought to have led the bank to be concerned that she was 
being scammed.
- There wasnt anything about what Miss E said or the transaction that she made, that 
ought to have led the bank to specifically warn her about romance scams either. 
And she was asked if anyone had told her or pressured her into making this payment 
and she said no. I havent seen evidence of the detailed conversation she had with 
the scammer that would led me to conclude she would have revealed more about 
how she came to make this payment but given the level of questioning by the bank 
Im not persuaded she would have. 
- Miss Es representatives say she wouldnt have continued with the payment if shed 
received warnings. But I havent seen anything that would persuade me this would be 
the case. She understood she couldnt check the company on companies house. 
And I wouldnt expect the bank to be able to give advice about specific crypto-
currencies, only that they pose a general risk  which she already knew and she said 
she was very aware. 
- I can see from Miss Es statements, that as well as the account with L Miss E also 
used other crypto-currency platforms. So the payment to L isnt unusual and neither 
is the value of the transaction. And Miss E had sent funds to her L account previously 
so is likely to have engaged in cryto-currency activities before. And I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest she would have done anything different or uncovered 
anything specific about the company even if she was given additional warnings. 
- Im persuaded that this information about her experience with crypto-currencies 
combined with the conversation shed had with the bank leads me to conclude that 
the bank didnt make an error in carrying out the payment as she instructed and I 
dont think the scam would have been exposed by the bank.
So overall Im not persuaded that the bank needs to refund Miss E. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Es complaint against Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman