DRN-3340957
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Yorkshire Bank (Clydesdale)
unfairly declined his claim under Section 75 (S.75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs C paid for membership of a holiday club (which Ill call Club C) in August 2009. 
They paid another company (which Ill call Business G) who marketed the membership on 
behalf of Club C, to acquire the membership with Club C. 
The total cost mentioned on the Membership Application was £7,000. Mr C paid Business 
G £2,058.29 using his Yorkshire Bank credit card and then later £5,000 by bank transfer 
from his bank account. 1
In November 2017, Mr C raised a claim with Clydesdale for breach of contract under S.75 
CCA. Mr C is represented, but for ease I will refer to him throughout. Mr C said that Club C 
was wound up in 2012, resulting in him being unable to utilise the services and savings hed 
agreed to purchase. And that, as Business G was also no longer trading, he had no choice 
but to hold Clydesdale jointly and severally liable for the breach of contract. He requested a 
full refund plus 8% interest.  
Clydesdale turned down the claim. It said that in order for S.75 CCA to apply, certain 
conditions had to be met, in terms of the relationship between themselves, the debtor (Mr C) 
and the supplier of the goods or services. Clydesdale said that in this case Business G was 
the suppler. And that Mr C had paid Business G to arrange membership with Club C and this 
had been done. Clydesdale said that it had no liability under S.75 for Club C going out of 
business when it did. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and complained about Clydesdales decision. Clydesdale 
maintained its position and Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to this Service.
An investigator here issued an assessment on the case. She said, in summary, that:
- Whether or not the right sort of conditions for a S.75 CCA claim against Clydesdale 
existed in this case, came down to the extent of a link between the parties involved 
and the arrangements in place at the time. 
- It seemed that Business G was arranging membership of Club C for Mr and Mrs C, 
on behalf of Club C.
- Alternatively, if Business G was supplying any membership in its own name, it was 
limited to one years membership. The alleged breach happened after this.
1 Both Mr and Mrs C are mentioned on the holiday club membership application form. But, only Mr C is an eligible 
complainant as the credit card used was his. As Mr and Mrs C went through the purchase process together, I 
have referred to both of them in the decision, but it would be for Mr C to accept or reject this final decision.  
- Business G and Club C werent sufficiently connected such that they met the 
definition of associates as defined in S.187 CCA.
- Since Business G was also doing more than just taking payment on behalf of Club C 
(it was marketing and arranging membership), the necessary DCS chain relating to 
Club C didnt exist.
- So, whilst she empathised with Mr and Mrs Cs situation, Clydesdale had fairly 
investigated the claim. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They said that, in summary, that:
- They didnt think Business G was the supplier  rather it was Club C, with Business 
G facilitating the payment. 
- Relevant case law shows that in a scenario where there are more than three parties 
involved, the lender is still liable under S.75 CCA.
The investigators opinion remained unchanged. She thought that Business G had done 
more than act as a payment processor  she thought it had marketed and sold the 
membership, making representations about its benefits. She attached a copy of a final 
decision which she said was relevant to the issues at hand in this case. 
Mr and Mrs C said that the copy decision was a very different scenario and also that the 
Ombudsman had upheld that case in contrast to this one. They also said that the decision 
confirmed Business G was a marketer only and that Club C was providing the service. And 
that their case should follow the same principle. 
As the matter remained unresolved, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as the investigator and for similar 
reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, but hope that my 
explanation helps them to understand why Ive reached the conclusion that I have.
To determine this complaint, it is necessary to first set out what I consider Mr and Mrs C 
agreed to, with which business and whether they have any cause of action against those
businesses for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. 
Ill then need to consider whether that is something Clydesdale needs to consider, given the 
relationships between the parties.
Finally, if I find Clydesdale does need to consider any claim, Ill think about whether it has
properly considered that claim.
Mr and Mrs Cs agreement with Business G
Mr and Mrs C signed a document titled Membership Application on 10 August 2009 that 
reads:
This agreement is made by [Business G], whose registered address is [address], for the purpose of purchasing membership to [Club C]. As follows:-
Mr and Mrs Cs details are recorded and there is a section titled To be completed by the 
marketer. It sets out the Registration Purchase Price as £2,000, the deposit as the same 
amount  with the payment method showing as credit card. It also shows a balance of 
£5,000  presumably indicating the additional amount still to pay (and that was subsequently 
paid). At the bottom of the page Mr and Mrs C have signed just below where it reads:
I confirm the details provided are accurate and correct, and that I have fully read, 
understand and agree to the terms and conditions attached hereto.
The terms and conditions have been supplied by Mr and Mrs C, so I think it likely they were 
provided with a copy. The terms and conditions are not particularly lengthy and so I also 
think its likely Mr and Mrs C wouldve had the chance to read them before they signed the 
contract. I can see they also signed the terms separately to confirm theyd read them. 
This document sets out some of what Club C did for its members. Business Gs name 
doesnt appear in any of the terms. Some of the most relevant parts, read as follows:
Membership
1. I/We understand that I/we have applied for membership to [Club C] and 
understand the associated benefits of the membership level I/we have applied 
for.
2. I/we understand that Platinum membership levels are indefinite subject to the 
payment of an annual subscription fee (the current subscription fee is printed on 
the front side of this contract.)
9. [Club C] endeavours to ensure that my/our membership benefits are available at 
all times and will continuously strive to provide new services.
10. I/we understand that my/our membership documentation will be dispatched by 
[Club C], upon receipt of our completion details, directly to me/us.

Services
[This section sets out some of the services offered by CC and its liability to members. 
There is again no mention of Business G]
14. I/we acknowledge that [Club C] reserves the right to withdraw an of the services      
at any time

Liability
1. I/we understand that the company whose details appear on the front side of this 
application is an independent entity authorised to sell memberships to Club C.
2. [Club C] warrants that it shall use its best endeavours to provide the services with 
reasonable care and attention and, as far as is possible, will accord to your 
request3. Where [Club C] supplies you with any products or services provided by a third 
party, [Club C] will be acting as your agent in connection therewith and will use its 
utmost care in selecting the supplier and ensuring the products or services are 
provided in accordance with your request.
6.  [Club C] shall not be liable to you or be deemed to be in breach of these Terms     
and Conditions by reason of any delay in performing, or any failure to perform, any of 
[Club Cs] obligations in relation to the services, if the delay or failure was due to any 
cause beyond [Club Cs] reasonable control.
7.   [Club C] may vary these Terms and Conditions from time to time and will notify      
you of any changes in a timely manner.
Having seen Mr Cs credit card receipts and the balance transfer, they paid slightly
more than the price set out on the contract (£7,058.29 instead of £7,000). Its not entirely 
clear why they paid more, though it looks like it may be to do with exchange rates. 
Regardless, I dont think it makes a difference for the purpose of this decision.
Club C membership
I think the documents available show that Mr and Mrs C bought membership of
Club C, and they suggest that was from Business G. The membership cost £7,058
and lasted indefinitely, subject to the payment of an annual subscription fee (£95 at
the time they took out the agreement). Once Business G took payment it was for
Club C to send to Mr and Mrs C their membership documentation. In addition, once the 
membership was started, there was some sort of relationship between Mr and Mrs C and 
Club C, who ran the membership and its benefits.
Although the application above says the agreement is with Business G, all of the
services are described as being provided by Club C or its agents, but none by
Business G. Similarly, Club C has attempted to limit its liability for any breach of the
contract terms and says that it can vary the terms of the agreement, which implies
there is a contractual relationship between Mr and Mrs C and Club C.
Indefinite isnt defined in the contract and theres no description of how this
would work in practice. For example, whether Mr or Mrs C could pass their indefinite
membership onto another person. This is important as Club C was wound up in
2012, so their membership didnt last forever.
Ive thought about the general principles of construction and interpretation of
contracts, thinking about the contract as a whole and how these types of contract
operate in practice. I think the description of the membership being indefinite subject
to an annual subscription fee, implies that upon payment of an annual fee, Mr and
Mrs C were able to access the benefits of Club C membership that year.
And, if that fee wasnt paid, they werent able to access those benefits. I think this is
different to a contract that can be renewed annually, such as a contract of insurance,
as it means the decision on whether to continue lay solely with Mr and Mrs C rather than 
with Club C. Here, there was a large membership joining fee and a much smaller
annual fee thereafter.
It isnt clear to whom Mr and Mrs C are supposed to pay the annual subscription fee,
as it just says the membership to Club C is indefinite, subject to the annualsubscription fee. But, Im satisfied that Club C felt there was an ongoing obligation on Mr and 
Mrs C to pay the fees. I cant see there were any ongoing contractual relations between Mr 
and Mrs C and Business G with respect to Club C membership after it was arranged and all 
of the benefits are provided by Club C.
On the front of the membership application form only Business Gs logo appears and it
says the agreement is made by Business G for the purpose of purchasing
membership to Club C. And in the terms and conditions it says I/we understand that
the company whose details appear on the front side of this application is an
independent entity authorised to sell memberships to [Club C]. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they didnt have a contract with Business G and that Business G 
merely facilitated membership with Club C. However, it seems to me that there was a 
contract between Mr and Mrs C and Business G for Business G to procure membership to 
Club C. They paid for this partly using Mr Cs Clydesdale credit card and partly using a bank 
transfer. And that membership was arranged as set out under the contract. 
But I also think that at the same time Business G was entering into a contract in its
own name, it was also acting as an agent for Club C. I think there was a contractual
relationship between Club C and Mr and Mrs C  once they had paid for membership
it was supplied by Club C (paragraph 10 of the section of the terms titled
Membership) and Club C provided them all of the benefits of membership.
However, Mr and Mrs C didnt have any dealings with Club C directly, so I think the only way 
it could have entered into a contract with them was through the use of an agent.
To summarise, Business G approached Mr and Mrs C, marketed Club C membership, and 
took payment from them. But the actual Club C membership, and the associated benefits, 
appears to be supplied by Club C after Business G has sent the completion details. So I 
think there were two contracts, one between Mr and Mrs C and Business G and one 
between Mr and Mrs C and Club C.
In 2011 the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills petitioned for
Club C to be wound up (the Petition). Ive seen a copy of the Petition that was
presented to the Court. It names a number of companies that were linked with the
principal activity of selling membership to Club C. The Petition alleged that the
companies were linked by the involvement of the same individuals, but the overall
structure of the group was difficult to penetrate and that meant the controlling parties
had remained hidden. 
The Petition was presented on the basis that Club C was involved in misleading customers, 
including making misleading representations about how it could help people out of existing 
timeshare obligations and presenting a complex and possibly insolvent cashback scheme. 
Club C was wound up by the Court in October 2012.
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt get what theyd been promised by taking out Club C
Membership, because they were promised indefinite membership and Club C was wound up 
in 2012 - so their membership wasnt indefinite. However, I think its clear that anything 
offered by Club C to its members was provided by Club C and not Business G. In other 
words, I cant see the Business G could be held responsible for a breach of contract due to 
Club Cs failures. And I dont think Mr and Mrs Cs contract with Business G was breached 
by Club C being wound up in 2012.
I think the agreement between Business G and Mr and Mrs C, so
far as Club C membership was concerned, was to arrange membership. Thatwas done and I dont consider that Business G has breached that contract. Its possible Mr
and Mrs C have a claim for breach of contract against Club C, but for the reasons Ill
set out below, I dont think that is something Clydesdale has to answer.
Is Clydesdale jointly responsible for any misrepresentations or breaches of contract in 
relation to Club C?
S.75 CCA states that in certain circumstances, where a debtor has a claim against a
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like
claim against the creditor. So here, Mr C (the debtor) is asking Clydesdale (the
creditor) to answer his claim (on his and his wifes behalf) for breach of contract over the 
problems Ive set out above.
But this doesnt apply to every claim Mr C may have. Clydesdale is only responsible
for claims where there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place. This
is set out more fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA, but in short, there have to be
arrangements in place so that the supplier of goods or services is paid using the
credit card. In Mr and Mrs Cs case, Mr C paid Business G directly, so it is not in
dispute that Clydesdale could be held jointly responsible for any claim of a breach of the
contract with Business G.
But I dont think Clydesdale has to answer any claim for breach of contract by Club C. That 
is because anything supplied by Club C was outside of the arrangements between Mr C, 
Business G and Clydesdale. Under the CCA, its possible Clydesdale would have to answer 
a claim if it could be shown Club C and Business G were associates (s.184 and s.187 
CCA). But nothing I have seen makes me think they were associates under the Act, nor is 
Business G mentioned as a linked company in the Petition referred to above. It follows I 
dont think Clydesdale needs to answer any claim for breach of contract by Club C as there
isnt a valid DCS agreement in place. And so I cant say that Clydesdale acted unfairly when 
it declined Mr Cs S.75 CCA claim.
Mr and Mrs C argue that the right kind of arrangement does exist between Mr C, Clydesdale 
and Club C such that Clydesdale does need to consider the claim for breach of contract 
under S.75. CCA.
Ive thought carefully about all of the things Mr and Mrs C have said about why they believe 
that Clydesdale does have liability for what they see as a breach of contract by Club C. But 
nothing theyve said leads me to agree with them.
Some of what Mr and Mrs C have said over the course of the complaint is contradictory, in 
terms of who they believe the supplier was in the context of the transaction and what his 
means for Clydesdales liability. But, focusing in on a significant point theyve raised, theyve 
argued that relevant caselaw (OFT vs LTSB 2006 and BoS vs Truman 2005) shows that a 
valid DCS link can be extended to scenarios where there are four or more parties involved in 
a transaction. 
I agree that both cases do indeed cover this issue. However, neither are directly relevant to 
the facts of this case. The OFT vs LTSB case does provide authority for extending the DCS 
link beyond a three-party relationship. However, it focuses on the role of a merchant acquirer 
in the context of credit card transactions. The Truman case also provides authority for 
extending the DCS link beyond a three-party relationship. However, once again the facts are 
not the same in this instance. In the Truman case, the key difference was the party who 
accepted payment provided no other service, it merely facilitated payment. So the courts 
found this didnt break the DCS chain. In this example, as Ive explained above, Business G did more than simply facilitating 
payment. It acted as agent for Club C and marketed the membership in its own right. So, I 
dont agree that the reasoning of the Truman case applies in this case.  
In conclusion, I dont think there were the right sort of arrangements in place for Clydesdale 
to be responsible to answer Mr and Mrs Cs claim for breach of contract by Club C. Because 
of this, I dont need to consider whether Club C going out of business, represents a breach 
of contract.
It follows that I think Clydesdale has acted fairly in turning down the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman