DRN-3668825
The complaint
Ms W complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has made an unfair claim decision on a claim
made on her buildings insurance. And has unfairly increased the cost of her insurance.
What happened
Ms Ws insurance has been underwritten by AXA since October 2019. She explained as
background to her claim that in February 2019 she was in arrears of around £100 on her
water account, but by August 2019, these had been cleared and she was in credit. It wasnt
until some months later that her direct debit amount increased significantly and she
contacted her water company for clarity.
In the summer of 2020, Ms W said she noticed her bills increasing but attributed this to her
using more water for her garden in the summer months. But she says it wasnt until the end
of 2020 that she became aware that her bills were excessively high and she contacted the
water company to investigate the cause.
In March 2021, Ms W made a claim on her policy for an escape of water and paid her
excess when the claim was raised. She explained that after making enquiries with her water
supplier, it said that it suspected there was an internal leak.
AXA investigated the source of the leak in April 2021 and believed it to be coming from the
hot water pipe beneath the tiled kitchen floor. AXA was unable to source a plumber directly
to attend and find and repair the leak so it advised Ms W to arrange the repair works. But it
authorised the track and trace for the escape of water in May 2021.
In May and June 2021 Ms W chased AXA for an update. She was provided with the details 
for where to send the quotes from her tradesman and asked to send these in for review. 
Ms W provided an invoice for completed works at the end of August 2021 and asked that 
AXA pay this. AXA paid £350 of the £390 claimed, it agreed to pay the additional £40 when 
Ms W highlighted the shortfall, but this wasnt paid.
In September 2021 AXA asked to see a full copy of the water bill for Ms Ws property, it said 
this was needed to validate the claim. In the October Ms W provided copies of her water bills 
dating back to 2017.
In November, AXA said it was going to repudiate the claim. It felt the water bills supplied 
demonstrated the leak had been ongoing for some time and had started before AXA had 
been appointed as the insurer. It felt the increase in the water bill amount each month should 
have demonstrated to Ms W there was a problem sooner and it didnt think it needed to pay 
the claim because of this.
Ms W contacted this service, unhappy with the claim decision and service received during 
the claim. She also questioned whether the cost of her policy was fair and if the claim had 
impacted this as her most recent renewal had increased.
Our investigator said that he felt AXA should reconsider Ms Ws claim. He didnt think it was 
fair and reasonable to expect Ms W to have been aware of the ongoing issue before.
He wasnt persuaded that the previous water bill information demonstrated that the leak was 
ongoing when the policy with AXA was taken out. So even if it had been ongoing for some 
time prior to Ms W being insured by AXA, he didnt think it was fair or reasonable to say that 
Ms W would have been aware of this before the claim was made in March 2021. What was 
clear was from 2020 onwards, there was a significant increase in the water usage and it was 
from this point that he felt it was likely the leak occurred.
He felt even if AXA could show damage was caused prior to it underwriting the policy, he still 
felt it was fair that AXA deal with the claim as the increase in water meant it was likely the 
damage occurred when AXA was responsible for the insurance. If AXA felt cost should be 
recovered from the previous insurer, he expected this to be done in the background to avoid 
any further distress and inconvenience to Ms W.
Our investigator reviewed the pricing information and said he was satisfied that AXA had 
increased the price fairly so he didnt think it needed to do anything else in relation to this. 
Overall, he didnt think AXA had handled the claim as well as it could have and it added to 
the distress and inconvenience experienced by Ms W. To put things right he recommended it 
do the following:
Continue to deal with the claim.
Validate and reimburse any expenses paid by Ms W.
Validate and pay the proportion of the water bills which relate to the water leak.
Apply 8% simple interest to the above figures, calculated from the date Ms W made 
the payments to the date of settlement.
Ensure the premiums have been set correctly, taking account of the influence of the 
claim.
Pay £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
AXA disagreed with our investigator. It said that it believed Ms W should have been aware of
the water leak sooner as it felt her water bills indicated there was a problem before it was
responsible for the policy. It thought because of this that it was fair to repudiate the claim as
the incident occurred before the policy was in place. It also thought the damaged should be 
excluded because it excludes gradual wear and tear. Because the leak had been ongoing for
some time, it felt it was fair to say the damage had been caused gradually overtime.
Our investigator said he still believed it was fair and reasonable to expect AXA to deal with
the claim. He said it couldnt be confirmed when the leak started, but it could be confirmed
the most significant increase in the water usage occurred in 2020, when AXA was the
underwriter. Because AXA disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 August 2022. I explained I was 
planning on reaching a slightly different outcome to that of our investigator, so to allow both 
sides a chance to comment on this, I set out what I intended to say in my final decision. I 
said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im planning on upholding this complaint in part. I know this will be disappointing to Ms W, 
but Ill explain why Ive reached this outcome.Ms Ws policy excludes damage for any incidents that happened before the policy started, 
so the first thing I need to decide is whether I think it was likely the leak was there 
previously. If it was, it might be fair for AXA to rely on its exclusion when it repudiated the 
claim.
AXA has pointed to the information within the water bills for Ms Ws property as evidence 
that it feels demonstrates the water leak was in place before the policy was taken out with 
it. These show there was some increase in the water consumption at her property in the 
years prior to it being the insurer. But I dont think its fair to say these increases were 
significant or that they indicated an issue at this point.
Ms W was paying £40 per month for her water for some time and was still paying this 
amount in March 2021 when the claim was raised. This was despite a number of 
statements from as far back as 2017 indicating more was needed to cover the total cost of 
the water used. Despite her statements indicating a higher amount might have been 
needed to be paid, Ms W continued to only pay £40 per month. This indicates that Ms W 
had conversations with her water supplier about her ability to pay the indicated higher 
direct debit amounts and the £40 payment was allowed to continue.
The £40 a month was sufficient to meet her costs up until August 2019. And as Ms W points 
out, her August 2019 statement showed her to be in credit when the bill was produced. So 
bearing in mind her policy with AXA wasnt incepted until October 2019, I think it is plausible 
that Ms W would not have realised at the point of inception that there was a problem at her 
property. As despite indications that the payment amount needed to increase, her average 
usage for 4 previous bills at this point hadnt really changed. And the billing period showed a 
reduction in the total amount of water used for the period of February to August 2019.
The escape of water caused no physical damage to the property with the repair works 
needed only to track and fix the leak. And I dont think that Ms W could have reasonably 
had any knowledge of a leak if there was one present at the point the policy was taken out.
Without knowledge of the issue, Ms W couldnt take steps to reduce the impact of this or 
prevent further damage or loss. And based on what can be determined from the water bills, I 
dont think I can say with certainty the leak was present when Ms W took out her policy with 
AXA. So I dont think it would be fair for it to repudiate the claim as it cant be determined the 
incident did occur before the policy started.
However, there is a point in time when I think it was reasonable to say the incident occurred 
and when I think Ms W would have had knowledge of an issue. And I think steps could have
been taken to reduce the impact of the leak at this point.
Although Ms W didnt increase what she spent on her water, the average usage amounts 
started to increase considerably. The first bill she would have received after taking her 
policy out with AXA showed her average daily water use had more than doubled. This was 
for a period of six months from August 2019 to February 2020 and not a period of time 
when I think it would be reasonable to expect your usage to increase. I think at this point 
Ms W should have questioned what was driving the increase in her usage.
Ms W said she contacted her supplier after her direct debit amount increased, her 
statement indicated the supplier intended to increase her payment from £40 to £80 per 
month. This wasnt what was paid and it was agreed to stay at a manageable rate. So 
although Ms W said she didnt ask it about the increase in her billing amount until late in 
2020, I think its likely she spoke with her supplier about this sooner. And I think it would 
have been reasonable to ask it to investigate the cause at this time.I think from this point onwards, Ms W would have been put on notice of the issue. She 
didnt contact AXA to raise a claim until March 2021. This meant the leak continued for a 
further year without investigation.
As Ive said, I dont think there was a leak indicated when Ms W took the policy out. All 
indications pointed to her usage being stable at this point and her billing amount correct to 
cover the cost of her needs. Because of this, I think its fair to expect that AXA would have 
always needed to deal with any incident that occurs after the policy started. So its fair that it 
deals with the claim for this. But had it been notified of the claim sooner, the additional costs 
Ms W feels are the responsibility of AXA for the outstanding water bill arrears would not 
have been incurred.
I agree with our investigator that AXA should deal with Ms Ws claim. But I think its fair that 
it considers only the costs it would have incurred to find and repair the damage. I also think 
its fair that it covers any additional costs for the months from October 2019 to June* 2020 
that Ms W incurred for her increased water usage for this period only. After this point, I 
think it is likely Ms W should have been aware there was a potential issue with her property 
and a claim should have been raised at the time.
*AXA took a number of months to deal with Ms Ws claim and during this time, the water 
continued to escape from the leak. So although I think the February 2020 bill should have 
provided notice of the leak, I think it is unlikely AXA would have fixed the leak immediately 
or reduced the cost from this point. So to be fair, Ive added what I consider to be a 
reasonable time for the repair work to have been completed.
AXA may still believe that it would be fair to rely on its exclusion for gradual wear and tear 
but as I say, I think it would have always been responsible for fixing the leak. There is no 
indication that the repair works needed would have been less had this been addressed in 
February 2020. So I plan on asking it to cover the costs associated with the repair.
AXA didnt ask for the information about Ms Ws water usage until the claim had been with 
it a number of months. I think this will have slowed down its ability to make a claim 
decision sooner and this would have added to the distress Ms W is experiencing. It 
originally accepted the claim but even when making payment, failed to pay the correct 
amount and I can see why Ms W became upset with the level of service received. 
Because of this, I agree that AXA should pay Ms W something to reflect this. But I feel an 
amount of £250 is fair.
The cost of Ms Ws policy
Ms W has also questioned whether the cost of her policy has been affected by the claim and
if she is being treated fairly.
AXA has provided a breakdown of how the policy is priced. I cant share this with Ms W as 
it is commercially sensitive but Ive reviewed whether the policy has been impacted by the 
claim. From the information provided, Im satisfied the price hasnt increased unfairly.
Despite AXA saying the claim has impacted the price, it appears this has had little impact 
on it.
AXA has shown the increases are in line with its normal pricing strategy and its increasing 
costs to provide the insurance. I understand the frustration Ms W may have at this 
increasing when it has repudiated the claim, but insurance often isnt a static price and this 
can increase overtime. If Ms W is unhappy with the price, she has the option to shop around 
and she has demonstrated shes done this previously after only moving to AXA in 2019.To put things right, Im planning on asking AXA to do the following:
Cover all costs incurred by Ms W in relation to the leak being traced and fixed.
If Ms W has paid these previously, pay 8% simple interest on the payment from 
date of payment to date of settlement.
Cover the increased cost in Ms Ws water bills from October 2019 to June 2020. 
As Ms W has continued to only pay £40 per month, I dont think AXA needs to 
add interest to this payment.
Pay Ms W £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
through the handling of this claim.
AXA responded to say it accepted the provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Ms W replied to say she broadly accepted, but she wanted to highlight one thing. She said 
the pandemic had impacted her loss. She agreed it was likely she spoke with her water 
supplier in March 2020, but due to the restrictions in place at this time, it was unable to visit 
her property and confirm that the leak wasnt its responsibility. Until it visited she believed it 
would identify and fix the leak and that she wouldnt be responsible for the increased costs. 
She asked that I consider this when thinking about the redress and my direction for AXA to 
pay the increased costs of her water bill from October 2019 to June 2020 only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reconsidered this complaint and thought about what Ms W has said in response. Having 
done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision set out above.
I understand the pandemic and restrictions put in place at the time made it difficult for 
companies to carry out their normal functions. And the delay in her supplier visiting meant 
she wasnt told that it wasnt responsible for the leak sooner. But I dont think its fair to say 
that this increases AXAs liability under the claim here.
I understand Ms W has insured her property for a number of years and that she feels she 
has cover in place with AXA which meets the value of her total claim. But Ive explained why 
I think there was a point in time that Ms W should have been aware, or ought to reasonably 
have been aware there was an issue. And Ive allowed an additional number of months on 
top of this when thinking about whether it was reasonable that AXA, if notified, would have 
been able to repair the issue and stop the damage from this point. I still think what Ive 
recommended is a fair assessment of this point in time. Ms W herself acknowledges it was 
likely she spoke with her supplier in March 2020. And with this in mind, I see no reason to 
change what Ive recommended previously.
If Ms W feels her water supplier has added to her loss by not being able to visit the property 
sooner because of the pandemic, she may wish to contact it directly and ask that it reduces 
the amount she owes to reflect this. But I dont think it would be fair to ask AXA to increase 
the costs it needs to cover in relation to the increased water usage as a result of the leak.  Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, AXA Insurance UK Plc need to do the following to put things 
right:
Cover all costs incurred by Ms W in relation to the leak being traced and fixed.
If Ms W has paid these previously, pay 8% simple interest on the payment from date 
of payment to date of settlement.
Cover the increased cost in Ms Ws water bills from October 2019 to June 2020. As 
Ms W has continued to only pay £40 per month, I dont think AXA needs to add 
interest to this payment.
Pay Ms W £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused through 
the handling of this claim.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ws complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman