DRN-4149695
The complaint
Miss M has complained Northern Bank Limited, trading as Danske Bank wont refund money 
she lost from her accounts as a result of a scam.
What happened
In 2021 Miss M received a call from someone stating they were from her bank, Danske. The 
number they were calling from was one digit away from the number she knew was Danskes. 
She was told they were from the fraud department and warned that her accounts had been 
compromised and her money wasnt safe. She was warned that Danske had stopped a 
fraudulent payment of £25,000 being made and that a fraudster had tried to set up a direct 
debit.
She was under a lot of work pressure at the time and suffers from ADHD so felt stressed, 
struggled with processing all the information she was being told as well as being extremely 
concerned.
Miss M followed the instructions she was given. She transferred all the money from her 
Danske savings account into her current account, then set up a new payee and transferred 
£7,750 to that account at another bank. She was aware the account name didnt match but 
was persuaded by the fraudsters that this was acceptable. The fraudster, aware that 
Miss Ms account may be subject to a daily transfer limit, persuaded her to transfer the 
remaining funds in her Danske account to another account she held with another bank (who 
Ill call R). She made three separate payments.
Miss M then emptied her account with R, sending money to another named account.
She was told shed get a call back within an hour. When this didnt happen, she called 
Danskes emergency line and was encouraged to alert the police. She did this and asked 
Danske to refund her. They wouldnt do so.
Miss M brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator noted Danske had not taken steps to warn Miss M of potential scams or 
undertook any additional checks on her payments. However she didnt feel that the 
transactions were sufficiently unusual to merit such warnings. Therefore she couldnt ask 
Danske to refund Miss M.
Miss M didnt agree with this outcome. Her complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 April 2023. I asked Danske to refund Miss M in full 
as I believed they could have taken steps to intervene.
Miss M accepted this outcome. Despite prompting we heard nothing from Danske.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows explains my thinking which has remained the same.
Theres no dispute that Miss M made and authorised the payments. Miss M knew who she 
was paying, and the reasons why. At the stage she was making these payments, she 
believed she was taking urgent action to keep her own money safe. She believed once this 
had been done, the money would be sent back to her.
I dont dispute Miss M was scammed but under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 Im 
satisfied the transactions were authorised.
Its also accepted that Danske has an obligation to follow Miss Ms instructions. So in the first 
instance Miss M is presumed liable for her loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Danske 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Miss M fell victim to a sophisticated scam. Unfortunately safe account scams  which is what 
this was  are not massively unusual. Miss M realises how this happened as she responded 
to a fake text supposedly from a delivery company. This allowed fraudsters to know Miss M 
had an account with Danske and meant they could tailor their approach to her and make it 
completely believable. 
So, for example, the call Miss M received came from a number practically identical to the 
Danske phone number. The fraudster was able to explain the difference by saying he was 
calling from the fraud department mirroring the set up many corporates have where phone 
numbers increase or decrease by a digit. The fraudster was also able to explain in detail how 
Miss M should make the payments and direct her to the relevant aspects on her app. They 
were also able to pre-empt her concerns that the payee may not match the named account. 
At the time of this payment, Danske werent using the industrys confirmation of payee set-
up.
Danske has confirmed they do have mechanisms in place to check unusual transactions but 
are unwilling to share any detail on these. What they have said is what Miss M was doing 
wasnt sufficiently unusual to trigger any warnings.However I find this surprising. Miss M firstly emptied all the savings she had with Danske 
and paid that into her current account. This wasnt a simple round figure, say £10,000. But 
the whole amount, £10,037.96. That immediately strikes me as unusual.
Then Miss M set up a new payee and transferred £7,750 to an account with another bank. 
This was more money than had been in her account before she transferred all of her savings 
into her current account. Theres no record of a similar type of payment on her account 
within the preceding six months. I note what Danske has said about Miss M making a similar 
value payment to another account at the same destination bank in May 2021, but I dont 
believe any argument that this reflects her normal payment behaviour stacks up.
Miss M then transferred all the remaining funds within her Danske current account to her 
account with R. Again theres no record of any alert being presented to Miss M despite her 
emptying her Danske accounts of all her funds.
For these reasons I believe Danske should have issued a warning at the time Miss M 
transferred £7,750.
As I say, safe account scams are not unusual. All banks are aware of how these operate. 
Danske has confirmed they sent text warnings to their customers, including Miss M, in 
February and June 2021 about so-called impersonation scams. These are unlikely to have 
registered with Miss M as they wouldnt have seemed relevant at the time.
However if a warning had been issued along these lines when Miss M had made this 
payment, I think this may have caused her to doubt what she was doing. Its clear Miss M 
was caught up in what was going on. But at the same time, her testimony shows that she 
questioned the fraudsters and receiving an official message from her bank, I believe, would 
have stopped her from making these payments.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that if Danske had taken action to warn Miss M, as I believe they should have at 
the time she tried to make the first payment to a new account, she wouldnt have made that 
payment, nor the three further payments to her own account at R.
As I believe any intervention Danske should have made would have altered what happened 
here, I am going to ask them to refund Miss Ms money in full.
Im aware that the loss of £9,778.39 only happened when Miss M made the transfer of those 
funds from her account with R. However Im satisfied that Miss M was only able to transfer 
that money from her account with R, because Danske did not intervene. So Im satisfied its 
fair and reasonable to ask them to refund that aspect of her loss too. Miss M also lost money 
that was also in her account with R which it would not be fair to ask Danske to refund.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Northern Bank Limited, trading as 
Danske Bank, to:
refund the full £17,528.39 Miss M transferred to a fraudster from her Danske 
account;
add the interest applicable to Miss Ms savings account at the time to the £10,037.96 
Miss M transferred into her current account from 12 October 2021 to the date of 
settlement; andadd 8% simple interest a year to the remainder of Miss Ms loss from 12 October 
2021 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman