DRN-2044215
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Toyota Tsusho Automobile South London Ltd trading as Jemca 
(TTA) mis-sold her a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss S bought the policy in 2008 in a car dealership at the same time as arranging finance to 
buy a car. 
The PPI provided Miss S with life cover  so it would have paid off the balance of the loan if 
she died during its term. 
Our adjudicator thought the policy had been mis-sold and recommended the complaint be 
upheld. TTA disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Miss S case.
TTA says it advised Miss S to buy the policy. That meant it needed to look into whether the 
PPI was right for her. But, having looked at Miss S circumstances at the time of sale, I dont 
think she had a need for life cover. I say that because the loan was in Miss S sole name and 
the purpose of the loan was to buy a car. At the time, she was young, single, living with her 
parents and had no children who might have relied on her financially. 
TTA disagrees and says Miss S did have a need for life cover even in her position. It thinks, 
if she hadnt made a will, the outstanding debt for the car would have been taken from her 
estate in the event of their death and that her parents, as next of kin, may have lost out. 
My understandings that any money outstanding on the car loan would form part of Miss S 
estate. Any assets in the estate would be used to discharge the debt. But, if theres not 
enough money in the estate to pay the debt, the beneficiaries of the estate (who may be next 
of kin, for example parents) arent automatically responsible for the debt. Its likely they just 
wouldnt get any money paid to them as there would be insufficient assets in the estate.
That might still have been of concern to Miss S if her parents were financially dependent on 
her. But theres no evidence to suggest that was the case. And, given she was living in their 
property, Id say that was unlikely.  
Although TTAs raised all of this in response to the complaint as showing Miss S possibly 
had a need for the cover, theres nothing to indicate it discussed any of that with her during 
the sale.
Taking everything into account, I believe Miss S has lost out as a result of how TTA sold her 
the PPI. So, it should put things right for her.
Putting things right
TTA should put Miss S in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and TTA should:
Pay Miss S the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TTA to take off tax from this interest. TTA must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Toyota Tsusho 
Automobile South London Ltd trading as Jemca to put things right for Miss S as explained 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman