DRN-3351636
The complaint
Mr G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a life assurance 
policy. Specifically, he says that RBS didnt tell him that he could pay significantly more in 
premiums than the sum assured.
What happened
In 2004, Mr G completed an application form to take out an over-50s life assurance policy. 
This provided him with a sum assured of around £4,800 for a monthly premium of £30. Mr G 
says this was a promotional offer, but he was never told that he could be in a position where 
hed pay significantly more in premiums than his sum assured. He complained to RBS.
RBS explained that this wasnt something it advised him to take, and the key features of the 
policy showed that it was a possibility that hed pay more in premiums than the sum assured. 
Mr G says RBS shouldve advised him in this situation. He also said that RBS sent him a key 
features document, when he asked for it recently, that didnt have the warning in. So, he 
believes that it was withholding critical information. RBS, whilst this complaint was with the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, offered Mr G £100 compensation for the inconvenience.
Our Investigator didnt think RBS had done anything wrong, so didnt ask it to offer anything 
more. She explained that RBS didnt give advice to Mr G to take the policy out, so it was up 
to Mr G to decide if the policy was right for him. She also explained that the key features of 
the policy set out the risks, including that he could pay more in premiums.
Mr G disagreed. He said that he believes RBS operated a sales process based on providing 
the bare minimum of information and he never expected his premiums to exceed the sum 
assured to the extent that they could. He understands risk should be rewarded but says if 
hed been told he could pay in excess of £10,000 in premiums he wouldnt have taken out 
the policy. He asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer RBS has made is fair and Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr G completed his application for this policy in 2004, and the application 
confirms that RBS isnt giving any advice and directs Mr G to ensure hes read the key 
features document before submitting the application. So, Im satisfied there was no 
responsibility for RBS to make sure this policy was suitable for Mr G, as it hadnt given him a 
personal recommendation based on his circumstances. However, it did need to provide 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive seen a copy of the relevant key features document. I think its most likely that the 
document provided is the relevant document because it shows its for the Over 50 
Permanent Life Assurance Plan which is the same heading as Mr Gs application form. At 
the top of the key features document there is a heading titled Risk Factors. The second 
bullet point under this heading says:
If you live long enough the total premiums paid will eventually be greater than the amount 
payable on death.
So, I think RBS provided sufficient information to Mr G to make an informed decision. I note 
Mr G understood he may pay more in premiums, but not to the extent to £10,000. Its 
impossible to know when a life policy will need to be claimed upon, so I wouldnt expect RBS 
to have told him this specific information with figures, but I can see that it provided Mr G with 
enough information, including the premium, sum assured and risk factors, to be able to make 
a decision about whether he felt the policy was worthwhile.
RBS did send Mr G the wrong key features document when he complained. And I can see 
that this has made Mr G concerned that the information provided wasnt accurate. RBS has 
offered Mr G £100 compensation and I think thats fair for the confusion it caused by sending 
this. Im persuaded that the key features that RBS sent the Financial Ombudsman is 
accurate and is what Mr G was directed to read prior to applying for the policy.
I understand Mr G will be disappointed with this decision, and I can see hes now been told 
that when he reaches age 90 no more premiums will be due. But, I cant say that RBS didnt 
provide sufficient information for Mr G to make an informed decision about taking out the 
policy. And I dont think there was a duty for RBS to give Mr G any advice or make sure it 
was suitable for his needs. So, I think the offer for £100 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland has made a fair offer to resolve this complaint. It must now pay 
Mr G £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman