DRN-1964044
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc blocked access to her account, before closing it and 
returning payments to their source. She wants Santander to pay compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused.
What happened
Mrs B had a current, savings and credit card account with Santander. 
On 20 February 2020, a tax refund payment of just over £7,500 was paid into Mrs Bs 
current account by Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC). Following this payment, 
Santander blocked Mrs Bs accounts, which meant she couldnt access the money in her 
accounts. And it asked her to provide proof of her entitlement to the HMRC funds. 
Mrs B was overseas when she discovered that the bank had blocked her account. She says 
due to the block on her account she wasnt able to pay for food, her hotel or transport. So, 
she had to ask strangers to lend her money, which was upsetting, stressful and 
embarrassing. 
Santander attempted to contact Mrs B to discuss the payment but wasnt able to reach her. 
And it left her voice message asking her to call back. When Mrs B called the bank from 
overseas to find out what was happening with her account, Santander told her it had blocked 
her account to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. And asked her to provide 
evidence that she was entitled to the HMRC payment.
As Mrs B was overseas, Santander said she could email over any information to the bank 
that she had about the payment. So, Mrs B emailed the bank a copy of her tax calculation.
On the 21st February 2020 Mrs B contacted Santander for an update on her case. 
Santander said it was reviewing the information Mrs B had provided. And were making 
enquiries with HMRC about the payment.
Mrs B called the bank again on 24 February 2020 to find out what was happening. 
Santander told her it was still looking into things. Mrs B gave the bank more information 
about the payment, which was a copy of her self-assessment tax calculation which said 
shed overpaid tax and was due a refund of just over £7,500.
The bank told Mrs B it would look at the new information and that Mrs B could access her 
salary by visiting a branch. Mrs Bs direct debits would also continue to be paid. Mrs B 
wasnt happy with this arrangement. She said having to visit a branch each time she needed 
cash caused her a great deal of anxiety, inconvenience and upset. Especially, as at the time 
the UK and the bank were operating under the Government restrictions due to Covid 19. 
Mrs B says this meant the bank reduced its opening hours and she wasnt able to make card 
payments for everyday expenses, which made life very difficult for her. So, she brought her 
complaint to our service. On 24 March 2020, Santander called Mrs B to let her know it thought the information Mrs B 
had provided about the payment didnt show she was entitled to the money. And it wanted to 
see evidence of the tax shed paid. In response Mrs B gave Santander a copy of her tax 
return, a letter from her accountant confirming the payment was correct. Mrs B also told the 
bank that her accountant had advised her she could offset the cost of some courses shed 
completed. And had been receiving an income from a rental property, which she could also 
offset. Santander didnt think the information showed Mrs B was had overpaid tax. So, it 
didnt remove the restriction on her accounts or release the payment. 
On 7 and 12 May 2020, Mrs B sent our investigator over a years worth of her pay slips and 
evidence of the courses shed attended. The investigator forwarded the paperwork onto 
Santander. The bank said this didnt change things and that HMRC had let it know the 
refund Mrs B had received was fraudulent  in other words Mrs B wasnt entitled to it. So, it 
returned the money to HMRC. Following this, on 3 June 2020, Santander decided to close 
Mrs Bs current and savings accounts. And gave her 30 days notice to make alternative 
banking arrangements. 
Mrs B remained unhappy with Santanders actions. She said she was caused a great deal of 
distress when the bank blocked her account, especially as she was overseas in February 
2020. And it had been blocked during the Covid 19 pandemic. She also said Santander 
blocked her account for too long. And wants Santander to pay her compensation for the 
trouble and upset she says its actions caused. 
The investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint. She said Santander hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed her accounts. She acknowledged that Mrs Bs account 
had been blocked for nearly three months, but she thought Santander had completed its 
review as soon as it could. She also said Santander were obliged to follow Government 
guidelines during the Covid 19 pandemic.
Mrs B disagreed. So, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mrs B has told us and the bank that she feels very strongly about her 
complaint. I appreciate shes upset that Santander blocked her account. And that this has 
caused her inconvenience and was no doubt stressful  especially as Mrs B was overseas 
when her account was blocked. And everything happened in the midst of the Covid 19 
pandemic. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied that the bank has done 
something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain action in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict customers 
accounts and ask for information about payments. Santander has said that Mrs Bs access 
to her accounts was blocked and reviewed to meet these requirements.
As part of its review process Santander are also entitled to ask a customer for more 
information about their accounts. And its not for this service to interfere with the banks 
processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer 
back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.The timing of Santanders actions was unfortunate. Mrs B was overseas when she 
discovered her accounts were restricted. She needed to access to her money to be able to 
fund her time abroad. So, I can understand why she found this experience with Santander 
upsetting and stressful. But as Ive explained businesses have a legal obligation to comply 
with various laws and regulations. 
Having looked at the information Santander received, I dont believe it was unreasonable for 
Santander to restrict Mrs Bs account whilst it investigated the concerns expressed by 
HMRC. And to ask her for information about the payment. Thats in line with what most 
banks would do in the same situation, and whilst I accept Mrs B had to provide information 
on more than one occasion, it enabled Santander to consider how best to react to the report 
it had received from HMRC.
Mrs B says Santander has taken too long to complete its review of her accounts. And it 
should have done things more quickly. I do accept that it took the bank a relatively lengthy 
period of time to review Mrs Bs accounts. But I do not consider that it would be right for me 
to conclude it should not have taken in excess of any particular or specific timeframe. 
Because the bank was entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it did. 
I can see that at the time HMRC were working through a back log of cases. But I cant hold 
Santander responsible for any resourcing issues experienced by another agency. I note too, 
that Santander pushed HMRC to look into Mrs Bs payment as a priority. And it arranged 
for Mrs B to access to her salary  albeit in cash at a branch. Mrs Bs direct debit payments 
also continued to leave her account. So, Im satisfied Santander took steps to find a way 
forward for Mrs B to access the money in her accounts and completed its review in a timely 
manner.
Mrs B has said she found it very inconvenient to have to attend a branch during its 
shortened opening hours to withdraw cash and not be able to use her bank card banking 
during the Covid 19 pandemic. I accept this caused Mrs B inconvenience. But in shortening 
its operating hours, Santander were following Government guidelines, which were put in 
place to protect the public and its customers. So, I cant say it did anything wrong.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mrs Bs accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular 
customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a 
bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account 
closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Santander closed Mrs Bs accounts with 30 days notice. In my view that was reasonable, 
given the concerns that had been expressed about the operation of the account. I also think 
that provided Mrs B with enough time to make alternative banking arrangements. So, it was 
entitled to close the accounts as it has already done. 
In summary, I appreciate that it was inconvenient for Mrs B when Santander blocked and 
closed her accounts. So, I realise Mrs B will be disappointed by my decision. But it wouldnt 
be appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe Santander 
acted inappropriately when it blocked her accounts and asked her for information about the 
HMRC payment which was paid into her account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman