DRN-2146121
The complaint
Mrs S complains that, in 2010, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
(PBA). 
What happened
The history of Mrs Ss account with Lloyds was:
opened as a fee-free account in July 1994
changed to a Select fee-charging PBA in May 1999 (which cost £8.95 in 2010)
changed to a Premier fee-charging PBA in June 2010, costing £25 per month
downgraded to a fee-free Classic account in January 2020
Lloyds has agreed that the 1999 Select account was not suitable for Mrs S and has refunded 
her charges. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint about 
the Premier account shouldnt be upheld. Mrs S didnt agree, and so the matter has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs S has said she agrees she signed the documents to take the Premier account, but 
says Lloyds didnt tell her about the fees. She feels she was told the account would only 
be charged when using the overdraft. 
She says she either didnt need the benefits that came with the PBA, or already had 
similar cover for some items; and that she only used the travel insurance because it was 
there and would otherwise have arranged separate cover. She says she wouldnt have 
wanted to use the higher interest that came with savings. And she was unwell and in a 
financially difficult situation, and she feels Lloyds took advantage of her when she was in 
a vulnerable state. 
Ive considered these points, and also generally looked at whether the PBA was mis-sold. 
The main point Mrs S has made is that she wasnt made aware of the monthly fees  
though she has been unsure , at different points in her complaint, whether she was told 
there was any fee at all, or whether she was given wrong or unclear information, such as 
the fee only being charged when she used her overdraft. Its not surprising, however, if 
she cant remember exactly what happened, given that this was over ten years ago. 
I have to think whats most likely to have happened. And I also have to bear in mind that it 
wouldnt be fair to say Lloyds did something wrong unless there was reasonable evidence 
of this  its not normally fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was so long ago, and memories may be hazy.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of the document Mrs S signed to agree to the change to the 
Premier account. Its not a very clear copy, and I cant really make out what it says about 
the fees. But it seems very likely there was discussion about the extra benefits, and I think 
its likely the cost came up in the discussion. Overall, I dont have strong-enough evidence 
to say Lloyds didnt tell Mrs S about the fee. 
The Select account, which Mrs S had had previously, provided car breakdown cover, 
mobile phone cover, and £50 interest-free overdraft as its main benefits. When Mrs S 
changed to the Premier account, she kept those benefits although the overdraft benefit 
increased to £500 interest free (and preferential rates above that) plus other benefits such 
as travel insurance, and home emergency cover. It looks as though the increased 
overdraft benefit and travel insurance were things she made use of  she made several 
enquiries about the travel insurance and seems to have used the full overdraft benefit 
over extensive periods; and the home emergency cover was potentially useful to her. So I 
think its likely that, even if she wouldnt have used all those benefits, there were enough 
benefits to make Lloyds recommendation appropriate. 
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to fairly say the PBA  was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman