DRN-3637923
The complaint
Mr D complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) didnt fairly settle his theft claim 
under his home insurance policy and he was unhappy with the service provided.
What happened
Mr Ds property was broken into and several items were stolen from his home. Mr D made a 
claim for the theft under his policy. esure appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. 
Following the report from the loss adjuster, esure decided to part pay the claim. esure said 
Mr D hadnt insured his possessions for the full replacement value, so had under-insured 
his contents. esure didnt think Mr D had done this deliberately  but thought hed been 
careless when making the misrepresentation. esure said if it had known about the correct 
value of contents, it would still have insured Mr D but the premium wouldve been higher, so 
esure said the claim settlement needed to be reduced in line with the premiums Mr D paid.  
esure settled the claim at 50.2% of the household goods and 11.1% of the high-risk items 
claimed for and it capped the settlement on a watch to the policy limit.
Mr D thinks the settlement is unfair  he said the full value of his stolen possessions is much 
higher than what esure has offered. Mr D thinks the policy wording is unclear in referring to 
high value / high risk items. Mr D said he didnt have any single high worth item but instead 
esure has considered some of his stolen goods as a collection. Mr D complained about how 
long his claim took to be validated and was unhappy with the loss adjusters approach. Mr D 
said his circumstances meant this had a significant impact on him.
esure recognised some communication failures from its appointed loss adjuster which it 
thought would have a greater impact on Mr D due to his vulnerability, so it paid him £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought the policy wording was 
clear and that esure had fairly settled the claim in line with the policy wording. He also 
thought esures payment of compensation was fair for the failing of its loss adjuster. Mr D 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 11 July 2022. I said:
I have first considered the length of time it took esure to progress the claim. With any claim 
the policyholder will experience some level of inconvenience with the claims process as the 
insurer rightly has opportunity to understand what has happened and to validate the claim.
I can see Mr D contacted esure several times to chase up on the progress of the claim and 
he was repeatedly told that esure were waiting for the police report for the theft. Its not 
unusual for the police report to be delayed and this isnt something that is in esures control. 
However, I would expect esure to progress any other aspects of the claim validation in 
parallel so that the overall timeline of the claim is not unreasonably delayed.
I can see the claim was made in April 2021. After several chase ups by Mr D, the claims 
handler sent an email on 14 July 2021 which said Mr D hadnt been contacted by the 
antique company re the medals and the coins. The claim handler wrote I can see you are 
waiting for the police report and explained to the policyholder that this is not a quick process 
which he appreciates. However, whilst waiting can [the loss adjuster] not continue with the 
valuation of the items so that all this is completed when the report is received. I can see that 
it was clarified that the loss adjuster had already initiated this validation a month earlier.
However, if the claim was made in April 2021 and part of the validation not initiated until 
June 2021, then I think there is evidence the claim wasnt progressed as pro-actively as it 
couldve been. I would expect esure to have a good grasp of the claim during the first month 
and to initiate their validation enquiries soon after. Therefore, I intend to uphold this aspect of 
the complaint. I think the delay has increased the level of distress and inconvenience for Mr 
D due to the numerous chases he has made to understand the progress of his claim and the 
delay this has caused in him receiving his settlement.
I have then considered the process and conclusions esure has reached in arriving at its 
settlement for the claim as Mr D was unhappy with this. esure settled the claim for 11.1% of 
the high-risk items and 50.2% of the household goods as it said Mr D was significantly 
underinsured due to careless misrepresentation. In other words, esure thought Mr D had 
under-represented the value of his contents when taking out his policy  it thought he had 
made a genuine error when doing this. However, it said had it known about the higher 
contents value it wouldve charged a higher premium. Therefore, esure has only settled the 
claim proportionately as it set out in its terms and conditions which state We may 
proportionately reduce the amount payable on any claim. We calculate the reduction by 
comparing the premium we actually charged with the premium we would have charged.
If esure show that Mr D had underinsured his contents then Im likely to say its been fair in 
offering a reduced settlement, in line with the premiums paid. Thats because esure wouldnt 
have received a higher premium to justify the higher risk it was taking.
I have read the policy and it sets out Mr D have a duty to ensure that all your household 
goods, high risk items, personal possessions and specified items are insured for the full 
replacement cost as new at all times. I think the policy is clear in the expectation on Mr D, 
so I have checked whether I think he has reasonably done this.
Im only able to decide based on the evidence I have before me. From reviewing the 
complaint, the disagreement on the settlement is due to two main aspects  what Mr D 
declared as the value of his contents when he took out the policy and how esure has 
categorised certain items stolen when determining the settlement.
I have looked at some notes from the claim related to a telephone call. The notes show 
[policyholder] confirmed he has made a mistake when selecting the level of cover on the 
policy and that he has got mixed up with what high risk items, household goods and 
specified items are, he thought that high risk items were any items over a certain value and 
as the coin collection items and the bottles of [spirits] were not over this amount individually 
he has added their value in to the household goods limit, he understands he has made this 
mistake and after I explained the differences he realised that he should have put the limits 
differently.
I have checked the policy and I can see it has defined high risk items as any of the following 
items that are at high risk of theft, which are kept in the Home, and consist only of the 
following:
 articles of gold, silver or other precious metals computer equipment
 furs
 jewellery
 mobile phones
 paintings
 stamp, coin, and medal collections
 watches.
I think the policy definition for high risk items is clear  so I would expect Mr D to have 
included his laptop, any watches, his collection of coins and his medal collection in the high 
risk items. As the definition talks about a collection of coins and a collection of medals, I 
wouldve expected Mr D to put a current value on the entire collection. Its Mr Ds 
responsibility to ensure that he declares his contents fully and in line with the definitions set 
out in the policy.
esure has reduced the settlement paid as Mr D didnt properly declare some of his high risk 
items under the high-risk definition. It has also restricted the pay-out on single items to the 
policy limit of £1,500, which I think is reasonable if these items werent specifically identified 
by Mr D in the policy schedule as being worth a higher value. I think esure has been fair in 
doing this. Therefore, I dont intend to uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Mr D had a significant number of bottles of spirits stolen, but esure didnt pay out on the full 
value of these as it said Mr D should have valued the bottles together as a collection. Mr D 
said he didnt realise he had to do this. As each bottle was worth under £1,500 he didnt 
itemise them but just included them as part of the overall value of his household contents.
I dont think esure has been fair in its approach for these items. Mr D said he didnt list the 
spirits as individually none of the items value was high enough to warrant listing. I have 
checked the policy and I havent seen anything that sets out that Mr D shouldve grouped up 
the value of his bottles into a single value for a collection before he declared it. I dont think 
its reasonable to have expected Mr D to know he needed to do this. I also dont think its 
right to classify Mr Ds bottles as a collection. Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint 
and I intend to require esure to re-consider the claim for the stolen spirits in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr D has experienced delays with his claim and his settlement has been unfairly declined. I 
think this wouldve had an impact on Mr D. He wouldve been without his money for some 
time, so I intend esure to add 8% simple interest to the additional settlement amount (from 
the date of the claim to the date the increased settlement is paid). Mr D has been 
inconvenienced and the delays and claim settlement has distressed him. Therefore, I intend 
for esure to pay Mr D £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
esure didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require esure Insurance Limited to:
Reconsider the claim for the stolen spirits, treating them as individual household 
items, and in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Add 8% simple interest to the additional settlement amount (from the date of the 
claim to the date the increased settlement is paid).
Pay £300 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman