DRN-3807197
The complaint
Ms A complains British Gas Insurance Limited didnt handle a claim she made on her central 
heating cover as it should have.
What happened
In late December 2021/January 2022 Ms A reported a problem with her central heating 
system to British Gas. Over the following months engineers attended her property about 35 
times and made various repairs. The problem persisted and in May 2022 British Gas 
concluded the underlying issue was the pipework. It said this needed replacing, wasnt 
covered by Ms As policy (because it was steel), and would come at a significant cost to 
Ms A. Ms A instructed her own engineer whom, in June 2022, found a leak on a radiator 
pipe, fixed it, and the problem was seemingly resolved. 
Ms A, British Gas and the Investigator all agreed things didnt go well. The Investigator 
issued a detailed recommendation setting out what she thought British Gas should do to 
resolve the complaint. This included paying Ms A about £1,300 to cover her financial losses 
and £1,200 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shed been 
caused.
Ms A accepted the Investigators recommendation. British Gas agreed to some of it, but not 
all of it. It said, in summary: It remained of the opinion the underlying issue was the 
pipework, which it re-iterated wasnt covered; It had done many repairs in good faith and 
implied this made things simpler for Ms As engineer; Finding leaks is difficult, especially 
when there are more than one, or where access is restricted. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept the problem with Ms As central heating system was a challenging one. I accept it 
may be necessary for Ms A to upgrade her pipework. And I accept British Gas did repairs 
where it considered them necessary. But Im persuaded, based on the evidence available to 
me, the problem should have been identified and fully repaired by British Gas, at no cost to 
Ms A, much sooner than ultimately happened. I say this because, while likely saved some 
effort by British Gas previous repairs, Ms As engineer did fix the problem, and quite quickly. 
So, like the Investigator (and British Gas to an extent) I agree Ms As complaint should be 
upheld. 
The Investigator set out in detail what she considered British Gas should pay Ms A to cover 
her financial losses. This included Ms As costs for fixing the leak, plus some interest. A 
contribution towards the cost of heaters and increased energy bills. And a contribution 
towards the cost of damage caused by a leak to a neighbouring flat. There was also a £90 
reimbursement for the cost of moving a washing machine to allow access. I find  for the 
same reasons set out by the Investigator  these to be fair and reasonable in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ms A had a terrible of time of things in the first half of 2022, which again, our Investigator set 
out in detail. British Gas accepted it let Ms A down and to recognise the impact on her it 
offered her £750 compensation. Our Investigator didnt think this was enough and so 
recommended British Gas increase its offer to £1,200 compensation. Having considered 
Ms As circumstances and the difficult situation this matter left her in, for a considerable time, 
I find £1,200 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she was caused 
fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms A:
- £719 to cover the cost of fixing the leak, plus simple interest* at 8% a year from the 
date it was paid (likely on or around 24 June 2022) until the date of settlement;
- £185 towards the cost of heaters;
- £50 towards the cost of increased energy bills;
- £245 towards the cost of damage caused by a leak to a neighboring flat; 
- £90 to cover the cost of having a washing machine moved; and
- £1,200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she was caused.
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman