DRN-3188475
The complaint
Mr T complains about Covea Insurance plc (Covea) cancelling his pet insurance policy 
following the death of his dog and deducting the remaining premiums due under the policy 
from claims for the costs of treatment of his dog.
References to Covea include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr T had a dog covered by a pet insurance policy with Covea. Unfortunately, the dog 
became ill and, despite receiving treatment from a vet, sadly died in July 2020. Mr T 
contacted Covea, who told him that the death of his dog meant that the policy would be 
cancelled from that date, but theyd consider any claims for the cost of treatment before the 
date. Mr T asked about the premiums due for the remaining period of the policy and Covea 
said theyd consider that question.
Covea contacted Mr T the following day to say that there was a balance of £566.40 in 
respect of premiums for the remaining period of the policy. Covea then received a claim form 
from the vet that treated Mr Ts dog. They went on to say that the balance of premiums for 
the remaining period of the policy would be deducted from the cost of the treatment, 
including that for other claims made in June 2020 that they were assessing. Covea then 
accepted the claims but deducted the balance of premiums (along with the policy excess of 
£110.00, co-payment sum of £20.61 and an administration fee of £24) to arrive at a net 
payment of £116.82. They said that under the terms of the policy, any balance of premiums 
at the date of the death of a pet were deductible from the cost of any claims for treatment at 
that date.
Unhappy at the cancellation of his policy and Covea deducting the balance of premiums 
from the cost of treatment, Mr T complained. Mr T said that it was unfair of Covea to both 
cancel the policy on the death of his dog and to deduct the remaining premiums from the 
cost of treatment. Mr T didnt think that the policy condition that Covea relied on was fair 
(under the Consumer Rights Act 2015). So Covea couldnt enforce the condition.
Covea didnt uphold his complaint. In their final response they said that the policy terms and 
conditions were clear that any balance of premiums at the date a pet died were deductible 
from any outstanding claims for the cost of treatment. Based on this, Covea said theyd 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions and maintained their original decision.
Unhappy at Coveas response, Mr T complained to this service. The main part of his 
complaint was that Covea had unfairly cancelled the policy and deducted the remaining 
premiums from the cost of treatment of his dog. Mr T maintained that the policy condition 
under which Covea did this was unfair. Mr T was also unhappy that Covea declined his offer 
that the remaining [monthly] premiums continue. He said that Coveas actions added to his 
stress at a difficult time, having lost his dog. He wanted Covea to reimburse him for the 
remaining premiums and to pay compensation for the distress their actions had caused him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint, concluding Covea had acted within the policy 
terms and conditions in deducting the remaining premiums on the policy from the claim 
amounts. The investigator considered Mr Ts point about the policy condition being unfair but 
didnt think the condition was unfair or unreasonable. He thought that Mr T had agreed to pay 
the premium in exchange for consideration of any claims made under the policy, and once a 
claim was made the full premium became due. The investigator also didnt accept Mr Ts 
argument that he should get a refund or be able to transfer the cover and continue to pay the 
remaining premiums due. The investigator also thought that the policy condition had been 
highlighted to Mr T through the policy key information document.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, Mr T said, firstly, that while aware of the policy condition, he still 
considered it unfair and that it put Covea in a financially advantageous position. He also 
thought it unfair that, had he simply cancelled the policy following a claim (without the death 
of the pet), he could continue paying by monthly instalments. He was also unhappy that 
Covea hadnt replied to his requests that he continue to pay through monthly instalments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im sorry this complaint arose from the death of Mr Ts dog, which would have been 
upsetting for him. However, my role here is to decide whether Covea has acted fairly 
towards Mr T.
 
The main issue in Mr Ts complaint is whether Covea acted fairly in cancelling his policy from 
the date of the death of his dog and also deducting the balance of premiums due for the 
remaining period of the policy from claims for the cost of treatment. Mr T says that its unfair 
of Covea to have done this, pointing to the Consumer Credit Act 2015. For their part, Covea 
say that they acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy (which Mr T would have 
been aware of when he took out the policy).
In considering this issue, Ive first looked at the terms and conditions of the policy referred to 
by Covea. The Policy Conditions, under 2. Cancellations it states:
In the event of the policy being cancelled following the death or loss of the pet 
insured, the outstanding balance of the yearly premium due will be deducted from 
any claim settlement made.
I think this condition is clear and that in applying it in Mr Ts circumstances, Covea acted in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. As the condition is also highlighted in the key 
policy information document then I think it was clear to Mr T when he took out the policy. 
However, when disagreeing with our investigators view, Mr T said that his complaint wasnt 
about the fact of the outstanding premiums being deducted. Rather that the condition itself 
was unfair and put Covea in a financially advantageous position. Ive thought about this 
carefully, but I dont agree. In taking out the policy, Mr T was entering into a contract for a 
period of one year, under the terms and conditions offered by Covea. In exchange for the 
cover provided by the policy, Mr T provided consideration in the form of the agreed premium. 
As he was aware of the policy condition, if he didnt think it was fair then he could have 
chosen not to take out the policy on those terms.
 
I also dont agree that it puts Covea in a financially advantageous position. As the policy had 
been cancelled with outstanding claims, I dont think its unreasonable for Covea to ensure 
that the balance of premiums (due from Mr T) was deducted from the settlement of claims 
(due from Covea) so that the liabilities from both parties was met at the same time. 
Taking all these points into account, in applying the terms and conditions in the 
circumstances set out in the policy, I dont think Covea have acted unfairly or unreasonably.
 
Mr T also argues it was unfair that, had he simply cancelled the policy following a claim 
(without the death of his dog) he could continue paying by monthly instalments. Having 
looked at the terms and conditions in this situation, Ive come to a different conclusion. 
Under the same heading 2. Cancellations the following paragraphs cover the position 
where a policyholder cancels the policy (after 14 days of issue of the policy):
Thereafter, you may terminate this insurance at any time by sending us written 
notice. If you cancel the policy prior to the renewal date and have paid an annual 
premium, you will receive a pro rate return of premium provided that no claim has 
been made during the current period of insurance. If you are paying by monthly 
instalments no refund of premium is given.
If a claim has been submitted or there has bean any incident likely to give rise to a 
claim during the current period of insurance a premium refund may not be given or if 
you are paying your premium by monthly instalments you may be required to 
continue with those until the premium is paid in full.
Looking at these two paragraphs, I think its the second to which Mr T is referring when he 
says he could continue paying by monthly instalments. However, this is a different scenario 
to the one where the pet dies (with a claim having been submitted). Thats because while the 
claim is being considered, premiums continue to be payable and cover continues to be 
provided for the pet (for example, should further treatment and claims arise). In other words, 
the policy continues while the claims are assessed. So I dont agree with Mr Ts view.
The third element of Mr Ts complaint is that Covea didnt respond to his requests to 
continue paying by monthly instalments. Looking at the sequence of events and the 
correspondence been Mr T and Covea, this indicates that they were clear in saying to Mr T 
that the outstanding balance of premiums (once it was established what the figure was) 
would be deducted from the claims for treatment in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
I appreciate that Mr T felt that Covea hadnt properly considered his request to continue 
paying by monthly instalments. But I dont think it was unreasonable to refer to what the 
policy terms and conditions were in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman