DRN-3466213
The complaint
This complaint is about five buy-to-let mortgages Mr T had with Bank of Scotland plc, trading 
as Birmingham Midshires (Birmingham Midshires). Mr T voluntarily surrendered the 
properties to be sold, but hes unhappy each property made a shortfall.
What happened
Mr T was unable to keep up with his regular repayments on five buy-to-let mortgages over a 
period of several months. Mr T was also aware the properties might have been in negative 
equity. As a result, he discussed the properties with his portfolio manager and ultimately 
decided to voluntarily surrender all five properties to Birmingham Midshires. 
Birmingham Midshires sought valuations for the properties and later sold them at auction. 
Mr T says he was advised on multiple occasions that the properties would be put on the 
open market for around six months to try and achieve the highest value before being sent to 
auction.
Mr T is unhappy all five properties were sent straight to auction and all achieved less than 
the outstanding mortgage amounts. Mr T says debt collectors are contacting him for the 
shortfall, which is causing him stress, and he would like the shortfalls to be written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill only comment on what I think is relevant 
to this complaint. I also wont use exact figures as I dont think this will be necessary to 
explain my findings and this level of detail could reduce Mr Ts anonymity when the decision 
is published.
Mr T has confirmed he decided to voluntarily surrender the properties himself, following a 
discussion with his portfolio manager. Birmingham Midshires have provided copies of the 
voluntary surrender documents Mr T signed for each property. Each document clearly set 
out that if the property was sold at a loss, Mr T would be liable for any shortfall. They also 
confirmed that debt collection agents may be instructed to pursue any shortfall. In signing 
these documents, Mr T confirmed that he understood this and that he was happy to proceed.  
Its expected that consumers are treated fairly and as part of that, steps should be taken to 
market the property for sale as soon as possible and obtain the best price that might 
reasonably be paid, taking account of factors such as market conditions as well as the 
continuing increase in the amount owed by the customer. But a balance has to be struck 
between the need to sell the property as soon as possible, to reduce or remove the 
outstanding debt, and other factors which may prompt the delay of the sale.
So, while Mr T says he was told the properties would be marketed for six months prior to 
being sold at auction, this may not have been the right course of action in his particular case. 
Birmingham Midshires have provided information that suggests the properties were not in a 
lettable condition for numerous reasons including being generally run down and the 
presence of vermin. Mr T himself confirmed that they were managed poorly by the company 
he hired to look after them and that he was unable to repair them himself. 
Birmingham Midshires instructed an estate agent to value the properties, it also received 
valuations from the auctioneers, which were broadly similar. In light of the fact the properties 
were accruing charges and interest and had been for some time, and that Mr T said he was 
behind on his council tax, I dont think Birmingham Midshires did anything wrong when they 
sold the properties via auction in order to complete the sales as quickly as possible. 
I say this because the condition of the properties impacted on their valuations and it appears 
there would more likely than not have been shortfalls however the properties were sold. The 
valuations provided by the auctioneers were not dissimilar to those provided by the estate 
agents and in some cases achieved greater selling prices than their valuations. So, it seems 
reasonable to me that Birmingham Midshires prioritised selling the properties as quickly as 
possible at auction.
While I empathize with Mr Ts situation, he is still responsible for the shortfalls on each 
mortgage and Birmingham Midshires is entitled to instruct a debt collector in order to recover 
the difference. So, I dont think Birmingham Midshires is required to write off Mr Ts 
outstanding debts and he will need to co-operate with Birmingham Midshires in order to 
settle his accounts. Birmingham Midshires should treat Mr T fairly when considering any 
repayment proposals.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman