DRN-3766834
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked his accounts and removed funds from 
them. His accounts were later closed. Mr A would like his accounts reinstated and an 
explanation.
What happened
The facts which led Mr A to bring his complaint to our service are well known to both parties, 
so I am not repeating them in full here.
In summary Barclays carried out a review of Mr As accounts and removed the funds from 
his accounts pending the review. Barclays later closed Mr As accounts.
Our investigator said Barclays acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when 
reviewing the funds to carry out a review. It didnt need to give a reason. She said Barclays 
had acted in line with their terms and conditions when they closed Mr As accounts.
Mr A disagreed with the outcome and asked for a final decision, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr A for his submissions and the evidence he has sent. I would like to 
reassure him that I have read and considered everything that he has sent to our service. 
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint Ill explain why:
Barclays has important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. 
They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know its customer, verify their 
sources of income, as well as detect and prevent financial crime. Barclays will review 
accounts to comply with its responsibilities. And, its common industry practice for firms to 
restrict access to accounts or remove funds to conduct a review - doing so helps prevent 
potential financial loss or other harm that could otherwise result. I find Barclays acted fairly 
by blocking Mr As accounts and didnt need to tell him the full reasons behind its decision.
Barclays went on to close Mr As accounts. Mr A has said he didnt breach the terms and 
conditions of the account as he didnt do anything illegal in the way he used his account. Its 
generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, 
banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this 
service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a 
customer who has had their account closed. I looked at whether Barclays acted fairly when 
they closed Mr As accounts and I can see that they have. Im satisfied they met the criteria 
to apply the terms for immediate closure and it was entitled to close the accounts which it 
has already done. 
Barclays arent required to give Mr A reasons for its actions. So, I dont think theyve done 
anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman