DRN-2887581
The complaint
Mr L complains that Think Money Limited wouldnt open an account for him. Nor would it 
give him a reason for its actions.
What happened
In early 2021 Mr L tried to open an account with Think Money, but the application was 
declined. Mr L was unhappy about this. He wanted to know why his application was 
declined. But Think Money wouldnt tell him, and said it wasnt required to.
In its final response to Mr L Think Money said it hadnt made a mistake. It said that the 
relevant terms and conditions say that it can refuse to open an account at its discretion, 
without giving reasons.
 
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said Think Money had told us why it 
decided not to open an account for Mr L, but had asked us to keep that information 
confidential. She understood Mr Ls frustration at not being told why Think Money had 
declined to open the account. However, having considered the relevant terms and conditions 
and the information Think Money gave us, she didnt think it had done anything wrong or that 
it had treated Mr L unfairly.
Mr L asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He says he met the account 
opening criteria, and he thinks Think Money should be obliged to open an account for people 
that meet the relevant criteria. He said he had had accounts with Think Money before, and 
that Think Money didnt even carry out a credit check.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt that Mr L feels frustrated about what happened. But having looked at the 
evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why
Financial businesses are entitled to decide who they want to do business with as long as 
they act within the law and relevant regulations when they do so. They arent obliged to open 
accounts for everyone that meet their eligibility criteria. Thats because financial businesses 
have the commercial freedom to decide who they want as a customer, in the same way that 
its open to Mr L to decide who he wants to do business with. It follows that it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to interfere with Think Moneys decision to decline to open the account for 
Mr L unless I thought that it acted unfairly, or it hadnt acted in line with the law or relevant 
regulations.
Ive considered the relevant terms and conditions and all the information Think Money has 
given our service, and I cant see that it has failed to act in line with the law or relevant 
regulations in this case. So it follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman