DRN-3026085
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy because she had to pay two private medical insurance policy excesses to 
BUPA Insurance Limited as a result of a delay in accessing an appointment due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mrs P is also unhappy with the premium rebate provided to her by BUPA arising from the 
Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mrs P holds a private medical insurance policy, provided by BUPA. The policy renews on 28 
June every year and carries a £100 excess. 
Unfortunately, Mrs P has had cancer in the past. In March 2020, Mrs P began experiencing 
severe pain. She was understandably worried and arranged a consultation with her GP. She 
was subsequently told that hospitals were only accepting NHS patients due to the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
After several attempts by Mrs P to arrange further investigations, BUPA pre-authorised her 
claim on 23 June 2020 and she underwent an MRI scan on 10 July 2020. Thankfully, Mrs P 
didnt receive a cancer diagnosis. BUPA paid the hospital part of the amount charged for the 
MRI scan but said Mrs P would need to pay the remaining balance of £100, as this was the 
excess payable under her policy. 
Mrs P complained to BUPA. She said, if shed been able to access an MRI appointment 
sooner, she wouldnt need to have paid another excess in the June 2020  June 2021 policy 
year. Mrs P also said she had been paying premiums to BUPA during the pandemic while 
BUPA was receiving no or very few claims and she was unable to utilise any services. 
Finally, Mrs P said she had received a letter about BUPAs rebate pledge and was unhappy 
that BUPA would be using its discretion to decide whether any premium rebate was due to 
her. 
BUPA sent Mrs P a final response letter addressing the complaint points shed raised. It 
said, under the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps policy, an excess is payable when treatment 
happens and not when BUPA agrees to cover the treatment. BUPA said it had provided 
amended services during the pandemic, and that the single hospital which it operates 
wouldnt benefit financially from treating NHS patients.  BUPA also said it had committed to 
passing back any exceptional financial benefit arising from the pandemic to its policyholders 
via a premium rebate under its rebate pledge. 
As Mrs P remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to the attention of our service. Mrs 
P subsequently received a rebate of £311.11 from BUPA. However, Mrs P says this 
payment doesnt equate, as it should, to one months worth of premiums, and that she was 
unable to use her policy for four months  not one month. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said he didnt think BUPA had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an independent and impartial organisation and we 
make decisions based on what we think is fair and reasonable to both parties in the overall 
circumstances of an individual complaint. 
Any volume of complaints of the same nature which we may have received from other 
policyholders isnt relevant to the outcome of Mrs Ps complaint. My remit extends only to 
considering the circumstances of Mrs Ps individual complaint and deciding whether I think 
BUPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards her. Ive taken into account the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ps contract with BUPA, as well as other relevant considerations such as 
the law and industry guidance. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P but I dont think BUPA needs to 
do anything further and Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps policy doesnt guarantee her immediate access to private healthcare. Instead, her 
policy provides for BUPA to pay for certain eligible healthcare which is covered under the 
policy. BUPA doesnt own or operate most of the private facilities which its members use, so 
it isnt generally responsible for the provision or availability of medical specialists and/or 
medical treatments.
I understand the circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic were unprecedented 
and exceptional and were outside of Mrs Ps control. But these circumstances, including the 
requisitioning of insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS, were also outside of 
BUPAs control. I have no doubt that the delays which Mrs P experienced will have been 
very concerning for her given her medical history, but I cant fairly hold BUPA responsible for 
these delays. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps policy, at page 19 under the heading How an excess or 
co-insurance works, says:
Having an excess or co-insurance means that you have to pay part of any eligible 
treatment costs that would otherwise be paid by us up to the amount of your excess 
or co-insurance
If your excess or co-insurance applies each year it starts at the beginning of each 
year even if your treatment is ongoing. So, your excess or co-insurance could apply 
twice to a single course of treatment if your treatment begins in one year and 
continues into the next year.
This means Mrs P needed to pay an excess when she underwent her MRI scan in the June 
2020  June 2021 policy year, despite already have paid an excess in the previous policy 
year. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ps policy also say her plan is for one year and that 
premiums must be paid in order for BUPA to provide cover during that year. Insurance 
policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event (i.e. a claim) happening over the 
term of the contract. So, an insurer is entitled to keep the benefit of the premium paid to 
cover the risk of a claim happening during that time  even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. Mrs Ps MRI scan was preauthorised in the June 2019  June 2020 
policy year and she underwent the scan in the June 2020  June 2021 policy year. So, Mrs 
P used and benefitted from her policy in both years. And, even if Mrs P hadnt made a 
successful claim, BUPA would be entitled to keep the premium it charged to cover the risk of 
Mrs P making a claim while these policies were in force. 
I appreciate Mrs P couldnt access her MRI scan when she first needed it and says she 
couldnt access her private hospital unit. While this may be the case, this doesnt mean her 
policy was otherwise unusable. It was still possible for BUPA to pre-authorise treatment to 
be carried out at a later date (as BUPA did in this case), and/or for Mrs P to use any 
enhanced remote services and cash benefit options which BUPA offered. 
Mrs Ps policy sets out what her rights to cancel and receive a refund are. Theres no term in 
the contract which entitles Mrs P to a premium refund if she is unable to make use of all the 
services she expected to be available. Nor is there any term which would entitle Mrs P to 
have her membership period extended. The fact that other insurers may have offered this 
doesnt mean BUPA was obliged to do so, or that BUPA was unfair in not offering these 
options to Mrs P. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums (or to only charge one policy 
excess) if medical treatment or medical services were unavailable or delayed due to 
circumstances outside of its control, and Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mrs Ps premiums 
were being used to finance NHS treatment. 
Therefore, overall, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for BUPA to charge Mrs P two 
excess payments, or to refuse to refund all the premiums Mrs P paid for her policy in the 
period March 2020  July 2020. 
BUPA, like any commercial organisation, is entitled to make a profit. But it has offered rebate 
payments to certain policyholders, including Mrs P. These rebates were paid in recognition 
of the value of claims reductions resulting from Covid-19 (after allowing for the likely impact 
of delayed claims and the additional costs of the pandemic). 
The rebates paid under BUPAs rebate pledge were equivalent to around one months 
premium for customers who held a policy through the qualifying period 23 March 2020 to 30 
September 2020. This was the period during which independent hospital services were most 
disrupted as they supported the NHS. The rebate pledge approach taken by BUPA has 
been independently verified by a third party. Details of this independent third party are 
available on BUPAs website.  
BUPA paid a rebate of £311.11 to Mrs P for the period from 23 March 2020 to 30 September 
2020. Mrs P says this doesnt equate to one months premium. However, Mrs P only paid 
£290.46 for her monthly premiums in March 2020, April 2020 and May 2020, which is part of 
the period which the rebate covers. Mrs P paid a higher premium from June 2020 onwards. 
BUPA has taken an average of the premiums paid when calculating the rebate due to Mrs P, 
and I dont think this is unfair. 
Im satisfied that the rebate paid to Mrs P is in line with the approach set out by BUPA and 
verified by the independent third party, so I dont think its unreasonable. BUPA has said it 
will carry out a final review to ensure it has met its rebate pledge and I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Mrs P is unhappy because BUPA paid this 
rebate to her while her complaint was with our service, but I cant fairly say BUPA shouldnt 
have done this and the fact that the rebate has already been paid to Mrs P hasnt made any 
difference to the outcome of her complaint. Overall, this means I wont be directing BUPA to do anything more. 
After our investigator reached his opinion about Mrs Ps complaint, Mrs P raised further 
concerns about BUPA refusing to speak to consultants, BUPAs staff making clinical 
decisions and BUPA capping payments made to consultants. These issues didnt form part 
of Mrs Ps original complaint to our service, and we cant investigate or comment on the 
complaint points she has subsequently raised unless BUPA has been given the opportunity 
to address these complaint points first. If Mrs P wishes to complain about these issues, 
shed need to raise them directly with BUPA in the first instance.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman