DRN-2228929
The complaint
Mr G has complained about a loan he took out through a company called Quidie Limited 
(Quidie). He is represented by a third-party who is a relative and Im very grateful to them 
for the comprehensive and clear way they put forward the complaint on his behalf. However, 
Ill refer mainly to Mr G throughout this decision, for consistency. 
Mr G says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loan caused him financial problems.
What happened
We now know that he took out one loan from Quidie in 2019. Ive enclosed a summary of his 
borrowing with Quidie based on the information it provided to us:
Loan Taken Out Amount Term Highest Repayment
1 02/04/2019 £200 3 months £99.75
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Gs complaint.
Quidie needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr G could 
repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have taken into 
account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Quidie should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Gs complaint.
Quidie told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr G, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. Im not going to list everything it did 
but suffice to say Ive looked over the checks it carried out very thoroughly. In summary, the 
checks it carried out seem to me to be at the less thorough end of the spectrum; and as such 
they would have revealed some, but certainly not all, of Mr Gs overall financial profile. 
Quidie says that based on what was revealed, the information showed that Mr G would be 
able to make the loan repayments he was committing to. 
No doubt much of the context to that view was that Mr G declared his net income (after tax) 
as £1,500 per month and he also provided details about his expenditure. On the basis of 
what Mr G declared to Quidie I think the repayments on the loan would have looked 
affordable, not least because the amount being borrowed was relatively moderate. 
Ive also looked carefully at what Mr G has said in response to our adjudicators view that his 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I accept that we now know that Mr G was already 
experiencing difficulties elsewhere and hed gotten himself into financial trouble. But looking 
at all this through the lens of what Quidie knew at the time, I think the checks it carried out 
indicated this loan was sustainable. Its unlikely, for example, it would have seen his 
overdraft usage or other short-term loans he had. So, Im afraid I too dont think theres 
enough evidence to uphold his complaint. 
As Ive said above, our normal approach to these types of loan is that the early lending 
relationship usually means less thorough checks are proportionate. Im not aware that Mr 
Gs income  or what he himself told Quidie at the point of application  revealed or 
suggested he was vulnerable. And none of the three issues Ive bullet-pointed above are 
apparent, so Im not going to deviate from that approach.
Whilst I agree its highly probable that more thorough financial checks would have exposed 
Mr Gs challenging financial situation much better, he was still at the very beginning of a 
lending relationship with this business and there doesnt seem to be anything that would 
have caused Quidie to think he was in financial trouble or might be unable to pay a £200 
loan back. In short, I think the checks carried out in this case were proportionate and Im 
afraid there isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Quidie Limited to pay Mr G any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman