DRN-4033828
The complaint
Miss V has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc mis-informed her about the exclusions 
for unemployment cover contained within her mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Pinnacle administer the policy on behalf of the underwriter. Miss V had an existing PPI policy 
that covered her for accident and sickness. On 11 June 2019 she rang Pinnacle to enquire 
about increasing the benefit amount and adding unemployment cover. Based on the 
information she was given, she decided to go ahead and amend the policy for a benefit of 
£1,200 per month and to include unemployment cover.
Miss V subsequently made a claim for unemployment which was declined by the underwriter 
on the basis that Miss V had been notified of her redundancy on 23 July 2019, which was 
within 60 days of the unemployment cover start date.
Pinnacle partly upheld Miss Vs complaint because it accepted that she was given mixed 
messages over the phone. So, it paid her £150 compensation and offered to reverse the 
amendments that Miss V had made and to consider refunding the additional premium costs 
incurred, together with 8% simple interest. But it didnt agree that the claim should be paid.
Our adjudicator thought that Pinnacles response to the complaint was reasonable. Miss V 
disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Miss Vs original complaint to this service she said she was only told that, if she had to 
make a complaint within the first 60 days of the policy, then she wouldnt get paid for those 
60 days but the policy would begin paying out after that. However, in later contact she has 
said that she was only told about a 28-day exclusion and that the policy schedule she 
received shortly afterwards confirmed the 28-day exclusion. 
Pinnacle sent Miss V an amendment letter to confirm the changes she had made. It states 
that there are four enclosures with the letter  the schedule of cover, an amendment fact 
sheet, new direct debit mandate set up letter and the direct debit guarantee. The fact sheet 
did set out the 60-day exclusion relating to unemployment notification. However, although 
Miss V received the three other documents, she says that the fact sheet wasnt included.
The 28 days refers to the waiting period on the policy. So, technically, the underwriter might 
accept someones claim for unemployment, but nothing is payable until someone has been 
unemployed for over 28 days. The 60 days that Miss V is talking about is also a waiting 
period after which the policy would start to pay out.
But the reason the claim was declined was nothing to do with the waiting period. As 
mentioned above, a claim wont be accepted at all if a policyholder finds out they are being 
made redundant within 60 days of the unemployment cover start date.
There is a clause in the policy that states:
Changing your cover
If you increase your monthly benefit or change your cover options, we will reapply the 
eligibility criteria and the following exclusions to that portion of cover changed
 Unemployment which we reasonably believe you knew was likely to happen, whether you 
had official notice or not, on the date you applied for the change, or which you are notified of 
or which happens within 60 days, if you are increasing your monthly benefit or if you are 
changing the cover under your policy, of the date of your application
Miss V is not complaining about the underwriters decision to decline the claim. Her 
complaint is about the sale of the unemployment cover and that Pinnacle didnt tell her about 
this exclusion.
Ive listened to the calls between Miss V and Pinnacle. The main call takes place on 11 June 
2019 and is the one in which Miss V decides to amend the policy. 
The adviser does make a mistake because she says there is a 60-day exclusion. She 
doesnt make it clear if she is talking about the waiting time or not, although that is the 
impression that is given. So, the information is wrong because the waiting time on the policy 
is actually 28 days, as set out in the policy schedule.
The adviser then follows a standard script that must be completed when making 
amendments. 
Miss V is asked if she is aware if there are going to be any redundancies, restructures, re-
organisations, financial or organisational threats to her job role. Miss V responds that theres 
re-structuring but that shes been told that nobodies jobs are at risk and that her role isnt at 
risk at the present moment.
Further along, the adviser says: I need to make you aware that theres a 60-day exclusion 
period for unemployment. This means that if you are notified or made aware of any pending 
unemployment within this time you can still claim but at the old amount.
So the adviser correctly mentions the relevant exclusion. But although the adviser sets out 
the exclusion, she fails to amend the script to apply it to Miss Vs situation. If Miss V had 
rung to increase the benefit amount on existing unemployment cover, then the policy would 
have paid out the old, lesser amount, if shed been advised of redundancy within 60 days of 
the amendment. But, of course, Miss V was setting up the unemployment cover for the first 
time, so there was no old amount of cover.
Miss V does hesitate after being told this, although she doesnt seek further clarification. 
Miss V knew that she didnt previously have unemployment cover. And she has just been 
told that there is an exclusion around being notified of redundancy within 60 days. So I think 
this should have given Miss V pause for thought about what she was actually covered for.
There is no doubt that the adviser provided incorrect information. But, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that what Miss V was told was enough to give her a reasonable expectation that any claim would be paid out after a 60 day waiting period, regardless of any other 
exclusions.
There is a further call on 13 July 2019 where the adviser calls Miss V back because shes 
been told that it wasnt possible to add unemployment cover. However, the adviser consults 
a senior colleague during the call and it is established that unemployment cover could be 
added. There is no mention of waiting times or exclusions during this call.
Pinnacle has accepted that Miss V was poorly informed. The question is, what loss has Miss 
V suffered as a result of that and so what compensation should she receive as a result. 
Specifically, should she receive the amount she would have if her unemployment claim had 
been accepted by the underwriter. A relevant consideration is what Miss V would have done 
had she been given the correct information.
If Miss V had declined to take unemployment cover upon being correctly told about the 
exclusion, that would suggest that she had a strong suspicion that she would be made 
redundant fairly soon. But she tells Pinnacle that her job is not currently at risk. So, it is more 
likely than not that Miss V would have taken out the unemployment cover in any event. So 
she was no worse off as a result of what Pinnacle did wrong.
Miss Vs employer notified her of redundancy on 23 July 2019 and she became unemployed 
on 7 January 2020, until finding another job in November 2020. She says that, had she 
known about the exclusion, she would have cancelled the policy in July 2019. I agree that 
Miss V would probably have wanted to cancel the unemployment element of the policy. But 
Pinnacle has already offered to consider refunding the unemployment premiums from 
inception in June 2019. 
Im unsure if Miss V is saying she would have cancelled the whole policy in July 2019. But 
Miss V has told us that she was trying to find another job before January 2020, so the 
accident and sickness element of the policy would still have been suitable and potentially 
useful for her in those circumstances. And Miss V has said that she did end up cancelling 
the full policy during her period of unemployment due to affordability issues. She says this is 
another way this issue has affected her, so it seems she regrets that she had to cancel it. On 
balance, Im not persuaded that Miss V would have cancelled the entire policy in July 2019 if 
she had known about the exclusion.
Miss V has also said that if she had received the amendment fact sheet that set out the 
exclusion, she could have rung Pinnacle within the cooling off period to get further 
clarification. But again, Pinnacle has already offered a refund of the unemployment 
premiums, which puts her back in the position she would have been in if shed cancelled the 
unemployment cover during the cooling off period.
Its not in dispute that Miss V was misinformed. But, overall, I consider that the £150 
Pinnacle has paid and the offer to look at refunding the unemployment premiums, is a 
reasonable response for the errors and inconvenience that occurred. It follows that I do not 
uphold Miss Vs complaint.
Miss V should contact Pinnacle if she wishes to take it up on its offer to reverse the policy 
amendments and refund the additional premium costs incurred, together with 8% simple 
interest.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman