DRN-3031261
The complaint
Mr L complains Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
loan. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Mr L on 26 March 2007 at the same time as the application for the loan was 
made. 
On 29 May 2014, Lloyds says it wrote to Mr L to say that something may have gone wrong 
when the PPI was sold. And he was invited to make a complaint about the way PPI was 
sold. I havent seen anything to suggest a complaint was made in response to that 
correspondence. 
Mr L then instructed a representative and a complaint was made to Lloyds on or around 28 
November 2017. The grounds for that complaint were that PPI had been mis-sold and that 
the amount of commission Mr L paid for the PPI premiums was unfair.  
Lloyds said Mr L hadnt replied to the letter it sent in May 2014, and so it thought the 
complaint about the alleged mis-sale was made too late. But it did offer to pay back to Mr L 
the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. It did 
this because it didnt tell Mr L about the high level of commission and profit share he would 
pay. Lloyds agreed that was unfair.
The complaint about both the mis-sale and commission was referred to us in March 2018.  
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold (the alleged 
mis-sale) because it said the complaint had been referred to us too late.   
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ls complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Lloydss payment in respect of commission 
was a fair way to resolve the complaint
Mr Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt give us any 
reasons as to why the complaint was late. But I note that from a recent conversation with 
one of our adjudicators that Mr L said he couldnt remember receiving the letter Lloyds sent 
in 2014. 
As the matter could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Can I consider the mis-sale complaint? 
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made: 
more than six years after the event being complained about, which would be the PPI 
sale in this case); or 
more than three years after the complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, of cause for complaint. This section applies where the complaint has 
been brought more than six years after the sale of PPI.
 
These requirements are set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2), which can be found 
online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed I 
can consider the complaint.  
As I said above, Mr Ls complaint was made to Lloyds in November 2017. This is more than 
six years after Lloyds sold the policy to him in March 2007. 
So, I next need to consider whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr L 
should reasonably have known he had cause to complain. 
Lloyds says it sent Mr L a letter in May 2014 which alerted him to the possibility something 
might have gone wrong with the PPI sale. Looking at that letter, I can see it set out that Mr L 
should have been told the PPI was optional. I can see that a significant ground of Mr Ls 
complaint is that he was pressured into taking the cover out. So it follows that I think that Mr 
L would have reasonably realised he had grounds for complaint from the letter Lloyds sent to 
him in May 2014. 
As I said above, in response to our adjudicator, Mr L said he cant remember receiving 
Lloyds letter. And I dont doubt that what Mr L told us is what he genuinely recalls. But I can 
see the correspondence was correctly addressed. And I havent been told about any reason 
why Mr L might not have received it (like problems with his post). So Im satisfied its most 
likely to have been delivered correctly.
 
Three years from Lloyds letter is 29 May 2017. This means Mr L needed to make the 
complaint about the policy sale by that date. As no complaint was made until at least 
November 2017, it is out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the complaint was 
out of time because of exceptional circumstances. But other than what Ive looked at above, 
I havent been told about any reasons for the delay. So, Im sorry that were unable to help 
Mr L with the complaint about how this policy was sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
failure to disclose resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, and if so, what would amount to fair compensation to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr L about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So I have taken into account: The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to 
disclose commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business 
expected commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the 
policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between Lloyds and Mr L was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Lloyds didnt disclose the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case. 
With all of this in mind, I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr 
L because it failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider, in all the circumstances, what amounts to fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ls representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr L should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr L about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; the 
low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was further argued that the 
these things meant the policy was poor value, and I should find that Mr L wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had they known about the level of commission. The representative 
submitted that Mr L should receive a refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about 
whether the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI 
policy had the commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to 
remedy the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does 
not follow that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums 
paid or conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had 
the commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules 
and guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms 
handling PPI complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipand any remedy caused by it should be considered at step 2.
I have taken into account the relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance. At this stage, 
my role as an ombudsman is to determine what would represent fair compensation to 
remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of commission to Mr L 
before the policy was sold.
So, I have considered: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the 
level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, 
in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 
140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness. 
I am not, as Mr Ls representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with 
the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr L paid for the PPI policy. I consider 
this fairly removes the source of the unfairness.
 
So I am satisfied that Lloydss offer to pay an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Ls complaint about how the policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr L an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman