DRN-4083554
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as T, is unhappy about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc 
handled its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) application.
Ts complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr H.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr H applied on Ts behalf to HSBC for a BBL. HSBC considered Ts 
application but cancelled it because the application hadnt been submitted correctly. HSBC 
didnt notify Mr H that Ts BBL application had been cancelled by them.
In June 2022, Mr H raised a complaint with HSBC on Ts behalf because he was unhappy 
that HSBC hadnt processed Ts BBL application made in July 2020. HSBC responded and 
provided an incorrect explanation to Mr H that referenced a loan feeder account application, 
rather than Ts BBL application about which Mr H actually complained. Mr H wasnt satisfied 
with HSBCs response, so he referred Ts complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with Mr H and HSBC. It was 
then confirmed by HSBC that they had received a BBL application from T, but the application 
had been cancelled because it hadnt been completed correctly, and HSBC hadnt notified 
Mr H about this. 
Our investigator felt that HSBC should reasonably have told Mr H that Ts BBL application 
had been cancelled, so they recommended that this complaint be upheld in Ts favour and 
that HSBC should make a payment of £150 to T as compensation for any inconvenience T 
had incurred. Mr H didnt feel the recommendations put forwards by our investigator went far 
enough, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because of the unique circumstances surrounding the emergence of Covid-19 that led to the 
creation of the BBL scheme, it was anticipated that there would be a large influx of BBL 
applications. So, to enable lenders to process BBL applications quickly, the British Business 
Bank  which administered the BBL scheme  made it the responsibility of the applicant to 
self-declare they met the eligibility criteria of the scheme and were entitled to receive a BBL. 
The onus was also on applicants to ensure the information they provided within their 
applications was correct. In this instance, while Mr H applied for a BBL for T as a limited 
company, he used an incorrect HSBC relationship number and business current account in 
Ts application. Specifically, instead of providing Ts relationship number, Mr H submitted the 
relationship number he held personally with HSBC in his separate capacity as a sole trader. 
And similarly, Mr H also submitted his sole trader business current account details on Ts 
application, rather than Ts business current account details.
It was for this reason  that Mr H had submitted an invalid BBL application on Ts behalf  
that HSBC cancelled Ts BBL application as they did. And I feel that was reasonable.
HSBC have explained that, because of the high influx of BBL applications at that time, they 
didnt notify Mr H of Ts cancelled applications and left it to Mr H to monitor the application 
and contact HSBC himself to reapply on Ts behalf if he wanted to.
I can understand why HSBC took this position, but even in consideration of the difficult 
working circumstances HSBC faced at that time, I do feel that they should fairly have sent 
some form of notice to Mr H that Ts application had been cancelled. And I note that HSBC 
have themselves accepted this position, given that they accepted the recommendation put 
forwards by our investigator that should pay compensation to T of £150 for the 
inconvenience it incurred.
Mr H has stated that he doesnt feel the £150 as recommended by our investigator goes far 
enough here, and that further compensation should be awarded to T. But Mr H didnt contact 
HSBC to enquire about the status of Ts BBL application until 2022  nearly two years after 
he submitted Ts application and after the BBL scheme had come to an end  which I feel 
suggests that the non-receipt of the BBL funds wasnt of significant impact to T, which in turn 
consequently suggests that no significant detriment occurred.
Mr H has explained that he was in hospital and so wasnt able to bring this matter to HSBCs 
attention before this time. And Mr H has also stated that because T didnt receive the BBL 
funds it applied for, it has lost 80% of its clients and may never recover as a going concern.
But if Mr H was in hospital and was unable to bring this matter to HSBCs attention because 
of this  which this service has unsuccessfully asked Mr H to evidence  then its difficult not 
to conclude that Mr H would similarly have been unable to continue managing T as an 
ongoing concern during that time. And in this scenario, I feel its reasonable to conclude that 
T may have lost its clients regardless of whether it received an influx of BBL funds or not.
Alternatively, if it was the case that Mr H was able to continue to manage T as an ongoing 
concern between 2020 and 2022, then its difficult to understand why Mr H couldnt have 
monitored Ts BBL application and contact HSBC about it, especially if the receipt of the BBL 
funds were as crucial to T being able to retain its clients as Mr H contends. 
As such, in consideration of all the above, Im satisfied that the £150 compensation as 
recommended by our investigator - for the inconvenience T incurred through not being 
notified by HSBC that its BBL application had been cancelled  is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint. And so, my final decision will be that I uphold this complaint in 
Ts favour on that basis.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a payment of £150 to T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman