DRN-4254494
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC) continued to report a default on his credit 
file after it should have been removed.
What happened
Mr J has a credit card account with HSBC. The account was defaulted in September 2021, 
and this was reported to Mr Js credit file. Mr J was unhappy with this and complained to 
HSBC and later this service. In resolution to that complaint HSBC made an offer of goodwill 
to remove the default and pay Mr J £300 in compensation. Mr J accepted the offer and his 
case with us was closed in July 2022. 
In February 2023, the case was reopened after Mr J let this service know that the default 
marker that HSBC had agreed to remove had reappeared. This service contacted HSBC 
about this, it explained that the account had been moved from its collections area to its 
recoveries area when it had been defaulted. When accounts are with the recoveries area of 
the business the monthly reporting of the default is automatic. It said it wasnt a simple 
process to move the account back and so the reporting had continued each month while the 
account was still with that area of the business. It arranged for the notifications to be 
removed and said that it would monitor Marchs report and correct that manually. In addition, 
it offered Mr J a further £300 for the delays. Mr J accepted this and the case with us was 
closed again.
Mr J made another complaint to HSBC towards the end of April 2023. This was in regard to 
the default showing on his credit file in March 2023. He felt the arrears had accrued, in the 
first place, as a result of a HSBC error, he was also upset that when discussing with HSBC 
how to bring his account up to date, it had questioned if his wife was going to job interviews. 
He also wanted HSBC to guarantee it wouldnt place the account into default again.
HSBC responded to Mr Js complaint, explaining:
the arrears had accrued due to Mr J missing payments between January 2021 and 
August 2022, following a period of breathing space, due to Mr Js personal 
circumstances
the default showing on his credit file in March 2023 had been dealt with under his 
previous complaint and in addition to the original £300 it offered, a further £300 had 
been paid to him in April 2023 to reflect the delays in dealing with this.
it couldnt guarantee a default would not be recorded again, as the account was still 
in arrears and while it remained in arrears it would continue to follow the normal 
collections process, which could result in the account being defaulted if it wasnt 
brought up to date.
In recognition of the time Mr J had spent on the phone with HSBC and the questions 
asked about his wifes employment, it would pay Mr J £150 compensation.
Mr J remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
think this complaint was one that should be upheld. In summary he said:
He couldnt comment on things that had been part of the previous complaint, as that had 
been resolved and could only look at what had happened since. In summary he said:
It can take up to one month for the update to show on a credit file, HSBC confirmed in April 
2023, that it would correct Mr Js credit file. So, when he complained in May 2023 about his 
March 2023 credit report, enough time hadnt yet passed for the updates to show. And as Mr 
J hadnt provided any evidence that the credit reports after April 2023 were incorrect, he 
didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong here.
HSBC had correctly confirmed it couldnt guarantee Mr Js account wouldnt have a default 
recorded against it in the future, as it remained in arrears at the time.
HSBC didnt make an error when asking about Mr J about his wifes employment status and 
if she was attending interviews, as it was trying to establish a picture of his overall financial 
situation. However, it had recognised the distress it caused to him and so offered £150, 
which he felt was reasonable.
Mr J disagreed; he felt the compensation should be more than had been awarded for the 
distress the default had caused to him. He also felt that the investigator should look at the 
previous complaint as this was a continuation of that complaint. He also told us that he had 
cleared the arrears on the account.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
Mr J feels that this complaint is a continuation of his previous complaint, and although they 
stem from the same original issue  the arrears and subsequent defaulting of the account  
they are separate. And so, while I may refer to things that happened before, my decision will 
focus on what has happened since his previous complaint was resolved in April 2023. 
Having said that to reach a fair outcome I have had to look at what happened in the previous 
complaint and have taken into account how that was resolved in order to reach a fair 
outcome here. 
Before I go into my findings, I would like to say how sorry I am to hear about the difficult 
personal circumstances Mr J has had to endure in the recent past and send my best wishes 
to him.
When Mr J brought his complaint here in May 2023, it had already been explained to him 
that his March credit file might have been impacted by the automatic reporting and manual 
amending issue, and he had already been compensated for that in April 2023. I say this 
because I can see that the investigator who dealt with his previous case emailed him in 
February 2023  explaining this would be a recurring issue while the account was in the 
process of being moved from the recoveries area back to the collections area of the business. In that email she confirms to Mr J the markers on his credit file are not permanent 
and that HSBC are monitoring the issue until the transfer is complete.
The investigator emailed Mr J again on 4 April 2023, explaining that HSBC have now 
confirmed the process was complete and the automatic markers are no longer being 
recorded. The email confirmed the March update had been reviewed and amended and that 
HSBC were offering £300 for the delays in getting this sorted and the distress it had cause to 
Mr J, which Mr J accepted.
Based on this Im satisfied that Mr J has been fairly compensated for the errors reported on 
his credit file and the delays in rectifying it, up until April 2023. Mr J hasnt provided anything 
to show the default has reappeared on his credit file after this time and so I cant see that 
HSBC have made any further errors, other than those already rectified. As such I wont be 
asking HSBC to do anything more in regard to this issue.
Mr J has asked that HSBC guarantee his account wont be defaulted again in the future and 
it has said it cant do that. And I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to have said that, 
thats because at the time of Mr J asking, his account was still in arrears and so was subject 
to HSBCs standard collections procedure, which could lead to default. 
Mr J has now cleared the arrears on the account, but even so this doesnt mean that HSBC 
could or should guarantee his account wont default again, as it has no way of knowing what 
the future holds. Should Mr J fall into arrears again, at a later date, the account would then 
be placed back into the collections process. It follows I dont think HSC has made an error 
here when explaining that to Mr J.
Turning now to the discussion Mr J had with HSBC when trying to set up a payment plan for 
the account. Mr J had explained to HSBC that his wife was currently not working and so he 
had no help with the household bills. But this could change once she started working again, 
and it would free up more money to pay towards his account, as she could help him with the 
household bills. So, when HSBC asked him if his wife was attending interviews, I think it was 
trying to gain a better understanding of if his current financial situation was short term or if it 
was more likely to be a long term. While I dont think that means HSBC did anything wrong 
in asking the question, I understand that Mr J was very upset by it as Mrs J wasnt party to 
the account. HSBC recognised this and the length of time Mr J had spent on phone calls 
with it and offered £150 to compensate for this. I think that is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
In summary, while I agree with Mr J that HSBC took too long to completely remove the 
default as they said they would, he was compensated for this under his previous complaint 
and so I cant award compensation for that in this decision. But to be clear, even if I could I 
think the compensation HSBC has already paid for their errors there is sufficient. And as Ive 
already explained, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong following the last complaint, it has 
offered £150 for the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr J in the phone calls, and Im 
satisfied that is fair in the circumstances.
I understand Mr Js strength of feeling about this and so I know he will be disappointed with 
the outcome Ive reached. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve his dispute 
with HCBS can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman