DRN-4155701
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc will not refund the money she lost as the result of 
an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Miss Bs complaint has been brought by a representative, for ease of reading I will refer
solely to Miss B in this decision.
What happened
All the details are well known to both parties and were set out in the investigators view of 12
January 2023 - so I wont repeat them in full here. In summary, Miss B was the victim of an
email intercept scam which resulted in her making a payment of £23,610 on 18 December
2017 to a fraudster. She believed she was paying the solicitor who was arranging the lease
extension of her flat. The same solicitor had managed her purchase of the property between
May and August 2017. But a fraudster had intercepted the email correspondence and
provided their account details for the payment.
Miss B says Santander asked no questions about the purpose of the payment, and did not
provide any effective scam guidance.
Santander declined Miss Bs refund claim saying she had not carried out sufficient checks
before making the payment and the branch had a full scam chat with Miss B before the
payment was made.
Miss B wants the £23,610 refunding; £500 compensation; and for Santander to cover any
related legal costs.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. He said Santander should have identified
the transaction as unusual and discussed it with Miss B. As there is no record of the
discussion that Santander says happened, he considered the most likely outcome had the
bank done what it should have. And he did not think had Santander asked a proportionate
level of questions it would have broken the spell of the scam. Or that it would have decided 
based on Miss Bs likely responses to refuse to make the payment. He also felt Santander
had done what it should have to attempt to recover the funds once it became aware of the
scam, but unfortunately they were no longer in the beneficiarys account.
Miss B raised a number of objections to this assessment. She said, in summary, had
Santander intervened effectively it would have made a difference. She said all Santander did
was to flag that the account details she initially had were for international payments. When
she returned to the counter with UK details no questions were asked about the payment and
no advice was given. She says the branch should have asked about the purpose of the
payment; whether it was a new payee and if Miss B had been provided with account details.
She thinks Santander ought to have been concerned that Miss B had paid the solicitor
before, but using different account details  and that for this payment she had seemingly
been given two new sets of details. Had it asked to see the email chain it should have been
concerned the solicitor was not contactable by phone. Miss B also argues that Santander
failed to adhere to the Banking Protocol.
Our investigator explained in more detail why he still felt an appropriate intervention would
not have changed the outcome. He said Miss B was expecting to make a payment of this
amount to her solicitor at this time. She would have been able to clearly explain this. She
would have been able to show the email she received after speaking to the receptionist that
confirmed the account details for the payment. He could find no evidence the solicitor had
said they could not be contacted by phone  and Miss B could have confirmed she had just
spoken to the firm. Finally, Miss B could have asked Santander to check the details in the
email with those she had used before.
Miss B disagreed, she felt suggesting she should have asked the bank to check the details
matched those she had used before to be placing a high burden on her, the bank should
have done this. She asked for an ombudsmans review so the case was passed to me.
I reached a different conclusion to the investigator so I issued a provisional decision. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments by 25 May 2023.
Extract from my provisional decision
In this case I currently think Santander ought to be held liable for the transaction. Ill explain
why.
Much of the discussion to date on this case has focused on the questions Santander ought
to have asked of Miss B at the time of the transaction  and whether they could have
prevented the scam through proportionate probing. I note Santander says it had a full scam
chat with Miss B before processing the payment, but it hasnt been able to give any detail
about this conversation and Miss B says she was asked no questions. So I think it is
reasonable to adopt the same approach as the investigator and consider what would most
likely have happened had the bank intervened effectively. I will return to this.
But first I think it is important to look in more detail at the failure of the bank to stop and
review the transaction. Its investigation notes dated 3 January 2018 say payment did not
detect. Given the value and the fact it was to a new payee  particularly when there were
other high value payments in August purportedly to the same solicitor but using different
account details  I would have expected this to trigger additional checks by the bank.
And it seems there are internal checks Santander could have carried out, but failed to, when
Miss B provided the new account details. I think these could have prevented the scam. I say
this as it was Santanders own internal checks that identified the payment as a scam on 27
December 2017. It seems the transaction was then flagged to Miss B as concerning, with the
explanation that she had paid a personal account, not a business account. Santanders
investigation notes show the payment was picked up as a likely payment diversion due to
what it knew about the beneficiary account (also held at Santander). Given it most likely had
this information at the time Miss B made the payment it follows I think it ought to have
declined to follow her instructions.
Or, at the very least asked it should have asked more questions than its full scam chat must
have included. Had it asked Miss B if she was aware it was a personal account, not a
business account, I am certain this alone would have broken the spell of the scam. She has
told us the receptionist told her to use the same details when she called the solicitors after
Santander queried the details she first tried to use, and such an intervention would have
most likely led Miss B to recheck the details  either by asking Santander to check them
against previous payments or by calling the receptionist back.In addition, had Santander intervened effectively it would have noted the high value
payments Miss B had made to the same solicitor before used different account details, so it
should have suggested she validate the change given her previous payments were
legitimate. Again, as Miss B had been told to use the same details as before this could have
broken the spell of the scam.
I anticipate Santander will argue that Miss B authorised and willingly made the payment. But,
as it knows, this does not change its obligation to protect its account holders from fraud. I 
assume it will also argue she should share some responsibility for her loss as she did not
carry out sufficient checks before making the payment. But I am not persuaded that is the
case in these circumstances.
Miss B went ahead with the payment based on what appeared to be a legitimate email from
her solicitor containing information only she, her parents and the solicitor were party to. It
was a transaction she was expecting to make  the money needed to fund it had credited
her account a few days earlier. She did what I could fairly expect a lay person to do in the
circumstances. Santander needs to take into account that it is the expert in fraud prevention,
and not Miss B. And in this case, I am persuaded it had access to the information needed to
prevent the scam succeeding.
Finally, Miss B told us that by the time she had saved up the money again to extend the
lease it was £6,399 more expensive. But I cannot fairly find Santander should be held liable
for this increase in cost. Miss B waited three years to extend her lease - and whilst I
understand that she had to save up the money after the scam, she decided that was the way
she wanted to finance the extension thereby increasing the price significantly. There would
most likely have been other less expensive ways to secure the extension sooner.
I then set out what Santander would need to do to put things right.
Miss B replied and accepted my provisional decision. Santander did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. To note, as the 
payment pre-dates the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code its principles do not 
apply in this case.
Neither party sent in any new information in response to my provisional decision so I have 
no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out in it.
It follows I find Santander should be held liable for the transaction.
Putting things right
Santander must pay Miss B £23,610. It should add 8% simple interest a year from the date
of the payment until the date of settlement*.
*HMRC requires Santander to deduct any tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss B a 
certificate showing the deductions if she asks for one.My final decision
I am upholding Miss Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman