DRN-4208011
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the actions of FACET Investment Management Limited 
(FACET) when, under its discretionary mandate of his account, it invested his pensions into 
two funds which later failed. Mr G feels there was a conflict of interest and no action was 
taken to mitigate his loss. He wants to be compensated for the loss he has suffered.
What happened
Mr G held his pension with a third-party trading platform which was managed by FACET on 
a discretionary basis. In late 2016 FACET launched its own discretionary portfolios and      
Mr Gs pension investments were invested into the EF FACET Cautious Discretionary 
Portfolio and Balanced Discretionary Portfolio Funds. In 2019 one of the underlying 
investments held within both Funds  Carpe Valorem LLC  failed to honour its coupon 
payment. As a result, the value of both Funds was substantially reduced.
The Cautious Fund was suspended by its Authorised Corporate Director  who I shall refer 
to as Company A in my decision  in an attempt to reduce the Funds exposure to the 
illiquid assets, but the Fund was later wound up. The same then happened to the Balanced 
Fund. The Funds assets were redeemed which took over a month to be returned to the 
pension platform.
After discussions with FACET, Mr G raised a complaint. The response from FACET said;
It had no way of knowing that Carpe Valorem would be unable to pay its coupon and 
the subsequent defaulting was going to happen. Due diligence carried out into Carpe 
Valorem implied a larger level of liquidity in the bond than proved to be case. It was 
fully approved by Company A to be suitable and relevant to the Funds mandates.
Carpe Valorem was a secured bond with a history of paying its coupon on time. The 
intention had been to hold the bond until maturity in 2021 and receive the 7% yield in 
the meantime.
FACET was aware of the remarks made by the auditors about Carpe Valorem, but 
the investment was illiquid, and it was unable to liquidate a significant percentage of 
the holding. It was still waiting to hear from Carpe Valorem as to any residual value.
Illiquid investments dont imply a greater risk. Carpe Valorem was an unusual 
situation. At the time of purchase, it was tradable in size. All investments were 
approved as suitable and relevant by Company A.
Upon opening his account Mr G was classified as a Cautious Risk investor  
FACETs Risk 2 portfolio  but no investment was without risk. When his portfolio 
was moved to the Cautious and Balanced Discretionary Portfolios the risk profile of 
them was matched with his Risk 2 portfolio profile. There was no way of knowing or 
predicting the events that happened.
The Cautious Fund had limited exposure to global markets which was a benefit 
during the winding up within the backdrop of the Coronavirus.
Mr G wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. He said auditors had raised concerns about the authenticity and valuation of 
Carpe Valorem in the May 2018 and 2019 Annual Reports. No potential remedy was sought, 
and Mr G suffered a financial loss as a result. The constraint in winding up of the Funds was 
because of Carpe Valorem being an illiquid investment without secured debt. It shouldnt 
have been held within a Cautious Fund. The percentage of illiquid and less liquid assets held 
within the Cautious Fund posed a high risk and the liquidation assets didnt occur at a good 
time.
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. He said;
FACET hadnt acted outside of its discretionary agreement by investing into the two 
Funds and that agreement set out the risks associated with investing.
Mr Gs risk profile had been determined as being Cautious-Moderate and considering 
the risk ratings of both Funds together, investment into them would have been 
suitable for a Cautious-Moderate investor.
Regarding whether FACET had taken any action when the 2018 and 2019 Annual 
Reports raised concerns was difficult to assess as Company A was the manager of 
both Funds and it was responsible for valuing the underlying assets.
FACET said that it tried to get further information from Carpe Valorem to satisfy the 
auditors and it attempted to sell the holding but there werent any buyers. This 
illiquidity wasnt within anyones control.
When the auditors remarks were first made in 2018 it was only three years prior to 
the maturity of the bond and the closer to maturity the more difficult it would be to 
sell. The investment became illiquid, but this was one of the risks investors faced 
and the investigator was satisfied FACET attempted to mitigate the unanticipated 
situation.
FACET wasnt responsible for the suspension, termination and winding up of the 
Funds. That was the role of Company A.
The investigator couldnt agree there was a conflict of interest in FACETs position. It 
had advised Mr G in November 2016 that it was launching its own Funds and its 
investors holding those Funds would not be charged a discretionary management 
fee. Mr G was advised to contact FACET if he didnt wish to invest into the new 
Funds.
As Mr G wasnt charged a discretionary management fee for his assets invested into 
the Funds, there was no indication of churning. And the decision to invest didnt 
stem from any monetary gain, it didnt create a conflict of interest.
Mr G didnt agree with the outcome.
He wanted to see any evidence of investigation into the financial status of Carpe 
Valorem by either Company A or FACET.
He said a company that received fees from the FACET Funds had a duty of care to 
ensure the investments within those Funds were managed in line with regulatory 
requirements. Company A and FACET said that due diligence on the Carpe Valorem 
investment had been carried out. He wanted evidence of this.
He was aware investment into the Funds carried both risk and reward. And he 
acknowledged receipt of his associated risk profile determination.
He still believed that to transfer funds from other investments into the FACET Funds 
which were managed by FACET was a conflict of interest, albeit him agreeing to do so.
Mr G requested that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me 
for a decision. I issued my provisional decision explaining that I intended on reaching a 
different conclusion than the investigator, but I asked both parties to give me anything more 
they wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Heres what I said;
As background, in November 2016 FACET advised Mr G that it would be launching 
its own funds and he would be moved into the appropriate Portfolio Funds depending 
on his risk profile. It would be waiving its discretionary fund manager fee as the funds 
themselves would pay the fees. The advantages would be more cost efficiency, 
better potential returns, and easier access to performance statistics and 
comparisons. The letter didnt give any indication of the funds Mr G would be 
invested into or the types of holdings within those funds. It said, In fact very little will 
change... and if Mr G didnt wish for this transfer to take place, he was to contact 
FACET.
Mr Gs circumstances
At the time of the advice Mr G was 69 years of age and retired with an annual income 
of £22,610. He jointly owned his home with his wife, and which was valued at 
£540,000 plus they owned an overseas property valued at £200,000. Mr Gs assets 
included £50,000 in cash, £90,500 in an ISA and £15,500 in an endowment policy. 
Jointly with his wife he also held an insurance investment bond valued at £152,865.
Mr Gs attitude to risk
For any recommendations or investments FACET made on Mr Gs behalf, it had to 
ensure they met his investment objectives, including his attitude to risk, purpose for 
investment and how long he wanted to invest. And that he was able to withstand 
investment risk and had the necessary knowledge or experience to understand the 
risks. Its clear Mr G did have some investment knowledge, because of the ISA and 
bond held, but Ive equally borne in mind that he turned to FACET for its investment 
expertise in investing his pension funds. He was reliant on FACET.
The discretionary portfolio management agreement dated March 2015 classified     
Mr G as a Cautious-Moderate investor. In FACETs Risk Assessment Report 
completed and signed by Mr G on 30 March 2015 there were 18 questions he 
needed to answer in order for his risk tolerance to be assessed. The outcome of that 
was that his Risk Profile was Cautiously Balanced and Mr Gs Chosen Risk Profile 
was Cautious. A Cautious investor was defined as;
This investor is seeking low risk growth, with higher returns than a 
defensively cautious investor. They are looking for conservative, steady 
returns and may target growth over income. They have a medium term time 
horizon, with access to savings required in 7-10 years. They are likely to be 
more experienced than a defensively cautious investor. In terms of attitude to 
risk, they are willing to accept some short-term volatility, but are aware of the 
likelihood of short term falls and therefore less prone to react negatively when 
they occur. They are also aware of the need to access more risky assets in 
pursuit of growth and would be prepared to consider international 
investments. They have a satisfactory savings cushion and a longer term 
horizon, so a higher capacity for risk than a defensively cautious investor.The Model Asset Allocation for such an investor was 35% equity, 40% fixed interest, 
10% hedge, 10% money market, and 5% property.
The Risk Tolerance Questionnaire records that Mr G strongly disagreed with the 
statements I would probably invest a very significant amount in a high-risk 
investment and I would consider investing in a risky investment for the excitement of 
seeing whether it goes up or down in value. He strongly agreed with the statement 
I would be anxious if I saw my investment had gone down in value.
The fact that the outcome of Mr Gs Risk Profile was Cautiously Balanced but his 
Chosen Risk Profile was Cautious suggests to me that he was looking for exposure 
to a lower level of risk than was identified by the business. So, Mr G wasnt willing to 
take the level of risk that was ascertained by FACET after its assessment of his risk 
profile.
The investment
Both of the funds could invest into unregulated collective investment schemes 
(UCIS) otherwise known as non-mainstream pooled investments and by their 
nature, they may be illiquid, have little or no history and be subject to valuation risks 
as examples. In 2011 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, referred to UCIS 
as being generally considered to be a high risk investment and that businesses 
should always ensure that clients understand the risk before investing. And in 2013 
it referred to them as risky, unusual or complex.
I note the Key Investor Information for both of the funds does refer to a significant 
loss of capital in the event of counterparty default, a loss of income if interest 
payments are missed and increased illiquidity. But this makes me question whether 
such a level of risk was suitable for a cautious investor.
I note that in its response to Mr Gs complaint FACET said that the issue with the 
value of the two Funds started in October 2019 when Carpe Valorem was unable to 
pay its coupon. FACET stated the Carpe Valorem was a secured bond with a history 
of paying its coupon on time.
But I dont have any evidence to support this. Carpe Valorems financial statements 
of December 2017 state that the business was organised in January 2016 and that 
It purchases non-performing HELOCS [home equity lines of credit] and second 
mortgages and works with the borrowers to restore them to performing status or work 
out via loan settlements.
A HELOC is a type of second mortgage that gives the homeowner access to cash 
based on the value of their home. The fact that the business purchases non-
performing HELOCS and works with the borrowers to restore them to performing 
status suggests to me that it dealt with homeowners who were already financially 
distressed in the first instance which would add a layer of risk of default.
And the bond was admitted to the official list in September 2016 so it was a newly 
formed entity and I cant agree that it had a history of paying its coupon on time  it 
had  only been issued a few years when the problems began. The yield of the bond 
was 7% which at the time was high in comparison to yields that were available in the 
stock market. It is generally accepted that higher returns are implicit in taking a 
higher level of risk.FACET told us that Mr G invested across three separate pension pots at three 
different times  (1) December 2016 £51,631.52, (2) December 2016 £151,451.07, 
(03) February 2018 £15,000 and (03) May 2019 £6,000  a total of just over 
£224,000. This was 100% of Mr Gs pension that was managed by FACET. It told us 
that outside of his pension Mr G held an ISA of around £91,000 and a joint insurance 
investment bond held with his wife of around £155,000 so he had a total of around 
£168,500.
Consequently, FACET was managing nearly 60% of Mr Gs overall assets which 
were held within his pension and split between two funds that could have exposure to 
UCIS.
On the assumption the investment was split equally between the two funds the 
exposure to Carpe Valorem ranged between 5.75% in 2016 to 11.73% in 2019  I 
dont think is unreasonable to consider this to be quite a high level of exposure to just 
one investment for a cautious risk investors pension investment. I cant see that this 
tallies with FACETs description of a cautious risk investor who was looking for 
conservative, steady returns.
Mr G was 69 years of age and retired so I dont think his personal circumstances lent 
themselves to him being exposed to higher than cautious risk investments which 
would be implicit in funds which could invest in UCIS. Mr G wasnt in the financial 
position to recoup any losses he suffered  he no longer was working or earning a 
salary. While the Key Information Document states that the funds could invest into 
UCIS its not clear whether Mr G understood the potential risks associated with that, 
particularly bearing in mind his cautious approach to investment. UCIS would not 
normally be a suitable for an older investor who was reliant upon his pension for an 
income and wanted their risk exposure to be cautious.
And I also think there is the additional risk of a lack of diversity. All of Mr Gs pension 
was split between two collective investments and which were managed by the same 
business. I consider that this added a further layer of risk. If the choices or decisions 
of the manager were wrong in that they proved to be unsuccessful, then 60% of    
Mr Gs investable assets were subject to that.
So, for these reasons, and in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I 
provisionally think Mr Gs complaint should succeed as I dont think the investments 
made by FACET were right for him. To put the matter right, I need to put Mr G, as far 
as possible, in the financial position he would be in if his funds had been suitable 
invested.
To put the matter right I recommended that FACET should pay any redress due if he 
suffered a loss by comparing the performance of Mr Gs investment half with the FTSE UK 
Private Investor Income Total Return Index and the other half with the average rate from 
fixed rate bonds.
In response to my provisional decision Mr G didnt have anything further to add. FACET 
didnt agree with my suggested outcome. It concluded that my provisional decision was 
based on three main factors which I had misunderstood;
While the EF FACET fund could have exposure to UCIS funds, neither of them did 
have such exposure while Mr G was invested.
My assumption that Mr G was invested equally between both Balanced and Cautious 
funds was incorrect. Mr G was invested 25% into the Balanced fund and 75% into the Cautious fund. Therefore, his exposure ranged between 2.89% in 2016 to 6.85% in 
2019.
I had commented on the lack of diversity with Mr Gs pension being split between two 
collective investments which were managed by the same business. FACET said that 
each of the funds was well diversified, multi-asset funds with many other funds held 
as sub holdings. Both funds fell into the IA Mixed Investment 20-60% shares sector 
as defined by FE Fund info and as such were not subject to a single fund managers 
discretion on investment. So, this was no different from a model portfolio or 
discretionary fund management.
Because of FACETs response I reconsidered all of the information I had been given, but I 
remained of the opinion I had reached so I issued a second provisional decision to allow the 
parties to respond. 
I should like to apologise to Mr G and FACET as I notice there were some typographical 
errors in my provisional decisions, and I gave Mr G the incorrect title in a few instances. I 
have corrected them here but with that exception, this is what I said;
After reconsidering all of the information and the additional comment from FACET, I 
remain of the opinion reached in my provisional decision. I shall explain why.
Ive reviewed the file again and cant find anything to show that Mr G would have 
been made aware of the changes to his investment in November 2016 when he was 
transferred to the new FACET funds which had recently been launched. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that his investments prior to FACET launching its own 
funds had been anything other than mainstream regulated investments  the Risk 2 
portfolio. He held an ISA, cash, endowment policy and an investment bond jointly 
with Mrs G. I cant see that there was any indication that it was brought to Mr Gs 
attention that the new funds would include investments of a non-standard or non-
mainstream nature.
In particular I note that for the risk and reward profile indicator of the Cautious Fund 
which was risk rated as three out of seven (one being the lowest risk) the Key 
Investor Information document said;
The indicator above does not take account [my emphasis] of the following 
risks of investing in the Fund:
 The Fund invests indirectly in some overseas markets which carry a 
higher than average risk of investment and the Fund may have 
problems or delays in getting its investments back.
 Investments may be made in assets denominated in various 
currencies and the movements of exchange rates may have an effect, 
unfavourable as well as favourable, on the gains and losses otherwise 
experienced on such investments.
 All charges and expenses will be charged against capital, which may 
have the effect of constraining capital growth.
 The Fund may, from time-to-time, invest significant amounts of its 
assets in bonds issued by companies providing finance for projects, 
including property development, infrastructure etc. As a result it is 
possible that there could be:(i) a risk of significant loss of capital should a counterparty to a deal 
default on repayment, or not deliver its side of the deal;
(ii) a loss of income revenue if payments of interest are missed; and
(iii) increased illiquidity of that portion of the Funds overall portfolio, 
which can lead to difficulties in selling such assets as and when 
required to raise liquidity within the Fund.
The Fund aims to minimise concentrations of credit and liquidity risk 
by undertaking transactions with a large number of counterparties 
whose firms are listed on markets eligible for investment. The Fund 
only buys and sells investments through brokers which have been 
approved as acceptable counterparties.
The Fund is classed as a NURS and can have wider investment and 
borrowing powers than a UCITS scheme with higher investment limits 
in various areas. It can also invest to a greater extent in areas such as 
property and unregulated schemes and have the option to borrow on a 
permanent basis. Such additional powers can increase potential 
reward, but may also increase risk.
So while Mr G chose to classify himself as a Cautious investor  rather than the 
higher risk rating of Cautious Balanced as identified by FACET  and 75% of his 
funds were invested in the Cautious Fund which was risk rated as three out of seven, 
that risk rating didnt take account of all the different factors subsequently listed.
The risk rating indicator for the Balanced Fund was rated as four out of seven and 
the Key Investor Information for that fund also made the same statement as for the 
Cautious Fund. So that risk rating of four out of seven also didnt take account of the 
additional risks stated.
Those risks included currency risk, potential exposure to UCIS, the use of complex 
investment instruments such as warrants and derivatives, overseas market risk and 
contingent liability investment transactions. This suggests to me that the headline risk 
rating  being three out of seven for 75% of his pension and four out of seven for the 
other 25% - gave Mr G false comfort in the level or risk he was taking which wasnt 
actually implicit in those investments. This was because of the higher levels of risk 
the funds could be exposed to at the managers discretion. And as it turned out  
those risks came to fruition and caused Mr G a significant loss to his pension.
Mr G turned to FACET for investment advice, he was 69 years of age and already 
taking his pension. He wasnt working and so wasnt in the position to recoup or 
replace any capital losses he incurred in his pension. So, I think any losses incurred 
would have impacted on Mr Gs standard of living during his retirement. And I think 
those losses came about because of the risks he was exposed to and which I 
consider were unnecessary for a cautious risk investor like Mr G.
FACET has said that the liquidity of the Carpe Valorem investments had been 
underestimated. But I remain of the opinion that such a level of risk is implicit in a 
non-mainstream investment such as the recently created Carpe Valorem bond. I say 
this because as mentioned in my provisional decision, Im not satisfied that Carpe 
Valorem had a history of paying its coupon. It was a newly formed entity and had no 
trading or significant operating history. It was also an overseas investment which 
introduced an element of currency and overseas market risk.While Mr G had some investment experience, he clearly wasnt confident enough to 
make investment decisions on his own. I think it should have been brought to Mr Gs 
attention of the additional risks he would be taking. And I dont think those additional 
risks are compatible with FACETs comment in its letter of November 2016 In fact 
very little will change. if Mr G opted for the new service.
Taking all of the above into account, I remain of the opinion Mr Gs complaint should 
succeed as I dont think the investments made by FACET were right for him. To put 
the matter right, I need to put Mr G, as far as possible, in the financial position he 
would be in if his funds had been suitably invested.
My role isnt to retrospectively say what the suitable investment would have been. 
There were many ways Mr Gs pension could have been invested and its not 
possible for me to now say precisely what he would have done. So, in line with our 
long-standing approach, I think its appropriate to use a benchmark to assess the 
type of return Mr G would been able to achieve with suitable investment.
I reiterated the redress outlined in my initial provisional decision. Mr G agreed with my 
second provisional decision.
FACET replied. It said that while it maintained that the advice was suitable it didnt think it 
could change my proposed outcome of the complaint and it was considering making a 
commercial settlement without any admission of liability and without prejudice. 
It said that it wished to base any calculation of settlement up to the date that Mr G left its 
service on 10 March 2020. As it had no further involvement with the portfolio after that date it 
didnt consider it should be held responsible for the investment advice thereafter. It asked 
that Mr G provide a schedule of distribution payments he may have received from the 
relevant funds since 10 March 2020 so that it could calculate any redress that may be owed. 
I didnt agree with this. I thought that it was for both FACET and Mr G to provide anything 
further they wanted me to consider. I thought it was only fair to both parties to have the 
opportunity to respond. And it would ensure that Mr G received an answer to his complaint in 
a timely manner. 
I said that if my decision remained unchanged, I would ask that Mr G provide any further 
information that FACET would need for settlement calculation purposes. 
In response FACET said that it disagreed strongly with my provisional decision and 
confirmed that it had made all of the points it wished to and had nothing further to add. It said 
that bearing in mind how long this complaint had been with this service Mr G had been 
offered ample opportunity to make any further comments. In addition, my provisional 
decision fell in his favour, so Mr Gs comments and his view had been relied upon. 
It also referred to this services guidance on businesses making an offer and on the 
presumption I would be making my final decision on the basis of my provisional decision it 
seemed unfair towards FACET, and for Mr G, to prolong this matter for longer than required. 
And it didnt appear in line with this services new approach in trying to settle matters as fairly 
and as efficiently as possible.
In conclusion FACET said that it wanted its comments shared with me and if I was minded 
to, to allow it to undertake a calculation for a commercial offer and it would be grateful for the 
relevant documents to allow it to do so. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I remain of the conclusion reached in my previous provisional decisions. Mr G 
accepted those decisions and FACET didnt have any further comment for me to consider 
with the exception of its proposed commercial offer which I shall address. 
Our website sets out the following about businesses making an offer for proactive settlement 
 You must make an offer  or notify us that youre going to make an offer  within 14 days 
of us telling you weve moved a complaint to investigation. Clearly FACET didnt do this. Its 
proposal for a commercial offer only came about after my second provisional decision. 
And I would also say that it is only fair to Mr G that he receives an outcome to his complaint 
in a timely manner  Mr G has waited a long time for an outcome. A final decision could give 
Mr G a better basis to enforce settlement  if he has to  than FACETs commercial offer. 
Equally if FACET were to make a commercial offer to Mr G  outside of my issuing a final 
decision  and he doesnt agree with it, he wont be in the position to enforce settlement. So, 
Im satisfied that my issuing a final decision is the correct approach for both parties to the 
complaint. 
FACET has said Mr G will have received distribution payments from the funds. So, in order 
for FACET to make an accurate calculation of any redress that may be owed to Mr G I would 
ask that Mr G provide a schedule of any distribution payments he has received. 
FACET has also asked that it only be responsible for any redress payments to be calculated 
up until 10 March 2020 when Mr G left its service. It had no further involvement with his 
portfolio after that and cannot be held responsible for the investment advice thereafter. 
But I dont agree with this. Mr G  as far as I am aware  was unable to take any action with 
the two funds as they were being wound up. If they are still held, FACET should take 
ownership and calculations should be made up until the date of payment of the redress after 
taking account of any distribution payments Mr G has received. If Mr G no longer holds the 
funds, then the calculations should be made up until the date of their disposal or final 
distribution payment Mr G may have received. Im also mindful that anything Mr G has been 
able to do in his pensions since March 2020 has been heavily impacted by this unsuitable 
advice. It feels fair and reasonable, and a pragmatic solution to this complaint, to calculate 
redress up until the date of decision to work out the overall financial loss.
As Ive been given nothing further to consider about the merits of Mr Gs complaint since my 
second provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. So, I 
confirm those findings and I uphold Mr Gs complaint. FACET needs to put the matter right.
  
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr G would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr G's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr G fairly, FACET must:Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
FACET should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, FACET should pay the compensation into Mr G's pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount 
paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If FACET is unable to pay the compensation into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr G £350 for the distress, upset and worry caused to him by the significant fall 
in value of his investment over a sustained period of time.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If FACET deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. FACET should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case.
If appropriate, FACET should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. The amount FACET pays should be included in 
the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If FACET is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. FACET may require that Mr G provides an undertaking to pay 
FACET any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must 
allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension 
plan.
FACET will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, FACET should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sums that Mr G paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
FACET totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr G into that position. It does not mean that     
Mr G would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and FACET Investment Management 
Limited should put the matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman