DRN-2969688
The complaint
This complaint is about how Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage has been operated and how theyve 
been treated during a period of arrears. Their lender, which Ill refer to here as S, is 
unregulated; S has appointed a regulated business, Kensington Mortgage Company Limited, 
to administer the mortgage as its agent. Kensington uses the trading name Acenden. 
What happened
In a recent jurisdiction decision, I explained why my remit to consider this complaint was 
limited to the following:
who owns and/or administers the mortgage;
the addition of fees and charges to the mortgage since June 2017;
legal action for possession of the mortgaged property; and
whether the balance of the mortgage is too high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Who owns and/or administers the loan
Right from inception in 2006, Mr and Mrs Bs lender has always been S, albeit it used a 
trading name at that time. S used to be regulated by the FCA, but isnt any longer. To that 
end, it uses a regulated administrator to run its remaining mortgage account. That 
administrator is Kensington Mortgage Company Limited, trading as Acenden. So S is the 
owner of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage, and Acenden is the administrator of Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage.
This is a subject area that can be difficult for consumers to follow; lenders can be regulated 
or unregulated, and in the case of the latter, they use third party businesses that are 
regulated to administer mortgage accounts on their behalf. To further muddy the water, 
both lenders and administrators sometimes use trading names that are different from the 
company name. All of this, however, is permitted and monitored by the regulator of financial 
services, currently the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
The addition of fees and charges to the mortgage since June 2017.
The starting position is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms to 
apply fees and charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage account that 
is in arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly. One situation where we 
generally find that arrears fees or charges havent been applied fairly is if the customer has 
paid either the contractual payment or a different amount agreed as part of a payment 
arrangement. Also, we generally dont find it fair for a lender to apply two different fees in the 
same month; for example, a monthly arrears administration fee and a rejected direct debit 
fee.
Ive looked at the fees Acenden applied after June 2017 up to the start of the complaint; Ive 
also looked at Mr and Mrs Bs payment record during that period. Using the fairness test set 
out in the previous paragraph, I dont find that any of the fees were applied unfairly. Ive also 
looked at the charges for legal work; they were, primarily, costs incurred by solicitors 
Acenden appointed to initiate litigation. Ill deal separately with whether the legal action was 
reasonable in itself, but the charges were proportionate for the work involved.
Legal action for possession of the mortgaged property
Lenders have a right to enforce their security; alongside that, they also have a duty to treat 
consumers fairly and show forbearance, where feasible, to those in financial hardship. 
Looking at the circumstances as they were when Acenden commenced legal action at the 
end of 2019, I dont think commencing legal action was unfair. 
Mr and Mrs B had been in a payment arrangement but hadnt always kept to it. Then, in 
December 2019, they told Acenden they were going to stop paying. I appreciate what 
Mr and Mrs B said about why they did that; but refusing to make payments that are due 
under a mortgage contract is unlikely to make an already difficult situation better. In that 
situation, the decision Acenden took to begin litigation wasnt unfair.
Acenden stopped that action the following month when it realised it hadnt followed the 
correct process; it also refunded the costs of the initial action. Thats reasonable, and what 
Id expect a lender to do in that situation. However, the underlying reason for Acenden 
having started the litigation in the first place still applied, and so it was also reasonable that it 
recommence the action, only this time following the correct procedure. 
In March 2020, after Acenden had issued its final response on this complaint, the legal 
action was stopped again after Mr and Mrs B made payments that brought their arrears 
down below the equivalent of one months payment. Overall, I consider Acendens treatment 
of Mr and Mrs B to have been fair and proportionate to the situation.
Whether the balance of the mortgage is too high
Im neither an accountant nor an auditor, but the statements of Mr and Mrs Bs account dont 
suggest any obvious accounting errors or anomalies. If Mr and Mrs B have a real and 
substantive belief that their balance is too high, it is for them to arrange for the account to be 
audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one. I make the latter point because Acenden would need to be presented 
with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond to it. 
Mr and Mrs B would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were 
to their detriment, we would then expect Acenden to reimburse any reasonable cost of the 
audit as well as taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as 
things stand, theres no evidence that gives me any reason to think that the mortgage 
balance is too high. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman