DRN-3464086
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Marbles) has recorded adverse information on 
his credit file about a credit card that he didnt apply for.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr S became aware that a credit card account had been opened in his 
name and that there was an outstanding debt that needed to be repaid. After discussing this 
with his family he discovered that a close relative had opened the account without his 
knowledge. Mr S didnt want to get his relative in trouble, so he agreed with her that she 
would continue to repay the outstanding balance.
Subsequently, Mr Ss relative stopped making payments to the debt and so he began to 
make payments himself. But when he didnt maintain payments to the account is was 
ultimately defaulted and that default was recorded against Mr S on his credit file. 
Its at this stage that Mr S contacted NewDay to explain that the account had been opened 
without his knowledge, he wanted the default to be removed from his credit file. In his initial 
conversations with NewDay Mr S was told that his credit file would be amended as NewDay 
would not be holding him responsible for the debt.
NewDay then sent Mr S a final response letter explaining that it would be holding him liable 
for the debt, but did go on to offer him £100 to recognise that the information hed been 
given in his conversations with NewDay was misleading. Mr S was unhappy with NewDays 
response, so he referred his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, and they were satisfied that Mr S 
had not opened the account, They also didnt feel that any of Mr Ss actions then meant that 
he was liable for the debt. So the investigator recommended that any information about the 
credit card be removed form Mr Ss credit file, and that NewDay pay him £250 to recognise 
the poor service it had provided.
NewDay disagreed with the investigators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr S did not open this credit card. The card was opened in 
2018 with Mr Ss home address but Im satisfied that Mr S wasnt living at home at that 
stage, he was a student living in a different city. And the email address that had been used 
to correspond with NewDay about the account is not the same as the one we have recorded 
for Mr S. NewDay has commented that many people have more than one email address, but 
Id note that it is also very easy to create an email address with any name you choose, 
theres nothing Ive seen that makes me think the email address recorded on the account did 
belong to Mr S. 
NewDays records also show that payments to the account were funded from an account in 
the name of the relative who Mr S has said admitted to opening the account, and Ive heard 
a call recording where someone other than Mr S has called NewDay to try and make 
payments to the account. Mr S has also been consistent in his testimony about what has 
happened here and why he took the steps he did to try and repay the debt, and nothing Ive 
seen contradicts what hes said happened.
So with all this in mind, theres nothing to suggest to me that Mr S either opened this account 
himself or was aware it had been opened until early 2020. But NewDay has said that it 
nonetheless thinks it fair to hold Mr S liable for the debt  and therefore for the default  
because of what he went on to do after he became aware of the account.
I acknowledge that Mr S did not raise the issue of fraud as soon as he found out about the 
account. But given the close relationship between him and the individual who opened the 
account, I can understand why he would be unwilling to formally record that a fraud had 
been committed. Instead he tried to resolve things informally by asking his relative to 
continue making payments to the account, and when they didnt, he began to make 
payments himself. I dont agree that by doing this Mr S was agreeing to accept the terms 
and conditions of the account  and therefore agreeing to be liable for the debt. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that Mr S has benefitted from the funds spent on the account in any 
way or that he used the account himself, only that he took steps to try and get the debt 
repaid so that he could draw a line under what had happened. So regardless of the fact that 
Mr S was aware of the account before it defaulted, I therefore dont think it fair for NewDay to 
record the default regarding this account  or any other information about it  on Mr Ss 
credit file. 
Turning to the overall level of service that NewDay has provided to Mr S regarding this issue, 
Ive listened to the call recordings that NewDay has provided of its initial conversations with 
Mr S. And I think its clear that Mr S was told that he would not be held responsible for the 
debt. Mr S then went on to contact NewDay several more times looking for an update on his 
complaint, and in those conversations NewDay went on to repeat to him that it agreed that 
the account had been opened fraudulently. I can therefore understand why Mr S was upset 
and concerned to receive the banks final response letter where it said that it was not 
satisfied the account had been opened by a third party, and so expected him to maintain 
payments to the debt, particularly as only a few days before he had been told he would get a 
phone call from NewDay to explain its findings.
I think that the contradictory information NewDay gave Mr S, and its failure to call him when 
it said it would, will have caused additional, unnecessary, upset to Mr S at a time when he 
was already dealing with a distressing situation. So with all of this in mind, Im satisfied that 
the £250 our investigator recommended NewDay pay to Mr S is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for NewDay to put things right by:
- Removing any information regarding this credit card account from Mr Ss credit file
- Paying Mr S £250 to recognize the poor service he has received.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. NewDay Ltd (trading as 
Marbles) should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman