DRN-3250262
The complaint
Mr S complains that esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels (esure) gave him 
incorrect information about his No Claims Discount when he took out a car insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr S accepted an online quote for a new esure car insurance policy via a 
price comparison website. He called esure to ask about transferring his No Claims Discount 
(NCD) from his previous insurer. He says esure told him this wasnt possible.
In March 2021, Mr S made a claim. He discovered hed been wrongly advised 12 months 
earlier and he should have been able to transfer his NCD to his new policy. He believes this 
meant he paid a higher premium for his insurance compared to an equivalent policy with six 
years NCD. He asked esure to refund the difference. 
esure told Mr S it had no record of the phone call in March 2020. It said it cannot make any 
retrospective changes to the previous policy without a call recording confirming you were 
misinformed before taking this out. It also told him that, because he hadnt used his NCD on 
his policy, it still stands. Mr S was unhappy with this response so brought his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
esures agent had deliberately misled Mr S. Instead, she thought the agent had set out 
esures policy that NCD from a commercial vehicle couldnt be transferred to a personal car 
insurance policy, without knowing that Mr Ss existing insurance was a personal policy. Our 
investigator felt that Mr S had time to query this further if he knew his existing policy covered 
personal  not business  use. In any case, she didnt think Mr S had lost out through this 
mistake.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
esure has been unable to trace a call from Mr S in March 2020. It also told us it cant provide 
emails between Mr S and its agent from March/April 2021 because the agent is no longer 
with the business and we have no access to these emails as they were sent to and from her 
email account. And the recording esure sent us of its call with Mr S on 29 July 2021 is 
incomplete. In my opinion, esures records of its communication with Mr S are inadequate.
On the other hand, Mr S hasnt sent us two pieces of information he says supports his case: 
a text message from esure saying they have checked with insurer database and received 
proof of his NCD; and an email from esure confirming he couldnt transfer his NCD from his 
previous insurer. Despite requests, he hasnt sent us these. Otherwise his evidence has 
been credible and consistent.
On the balance of probabilities, I think Mr S probably did call esure to ask about NCD before 
he took out the policy in March 2020. I think  again, on balance  that its likely esures 
agent assumed Mr Ss previous policy was a commercial policy based on the name of his 
previous insurer. And, because of that assumption, I think esures agent told Mr S he 
couldnt transfer his NCD from a commercial vehicle to a private car. During the 29 July 2021 
call with Mr S, esures agent appears to suggest this wouldve been a reasonable 
assumption. I disagree. As Mr S pointed out, Sheilas Wheels doesnt just insure women. 
However, I dont think this means Mr Ss complaint should succeed. Mr S took out the policy 
through a comparison website on a non-advised basis. Ultimately, he accepted the policy 
and the premium based on zero NCD. I accept he probably called esure to ask about his 
NCD, and that he was given incorrect information, but its not clear to me why he didnt 
challenge this given he would have known his existing insurance was a personal  rather 
than a commercial  policy.
Also, the first paragraph of esures welcome letter dated 30 March 2020 invited Mr S to 
provide proof of any NCD within 28 days. So Mr S could still provide evidence his previous 
insurance wasnt a commercial policy even after taking out the esure policy. Mr S didnt do 
this and didnt pursue the matter further at that stage. I dont think it would be reasonable to 
ask esure to reduce the premium retrospectively after Mr S had made a claim.
Mr S has since taken out a new esure policy with five years protected NCD (the maximum 
under esures policy terms). esure has told Mr S that if he can provide evidence from his 
previous insurer about his nine years NCD, it will forward this to its underwriters. In the 
circumstances, I think this is fair. Im not going to ask esure to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman