DRN-3787159
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. has turned down a cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance 
policy.
As Mrs M brought the complaint to us, for ease, Ive mainly referred to her throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M booked a holiday abroad in January 2021. They were due to travel in August 
2021. They had an annual InsureandGo travel insurance policy which was due to renew in 
May 2021. Mrs M decided to renew the policy during a phone call and as part of the call, she 
went through medical screening. She disclosed medical conditions for both her and Mr M, 
which were accepted for cover and noted on the policy schedule. During the call, Mrs M also 
explained that her husband had a history of excess alcohol consumption. This wasnt noted 
on the policy documents.
Unfortunately, in August 2021, Mrs M had to cancel the trip as Mr M was suffering from 
alcohol withdrawal. So she made a claim on her travel insurance policy.
Mapfre turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims which were 
down to alcohol-related medical issues.
Mrs M was unhappy with Mapfres decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. She 
maintained that shed declared Mr Ms condition during medical screening. But Mapfre hadnt 
told her that alcohol-related claims wouldnt be covered.
Our investigator asked for Mapfres file, but it wasnt provided. So the investigator assessed 
the complaint based on the evidence she did have. She thought the policy clearly excluded 
alcohol-related claims. And she didnt think there was enough evidence to show that Mrs M 
had declared Mr Ms condition during medical screening. She didnt think Mapfre had acted 
unfairly by declining this claim. Mrs M disagreed.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought it had been fair for Mapfre to turn down her claim. I 
said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of Mrs Ms policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Mapfre
treated her fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy, as these form the basis of
her contract with Mapfre. The General Exclusions section of the policy sets out a list of
defined, specific events which Mapfre has chosen not to cover and which apply to all claims.
Page 17 includes the following term:
We will not cover the following:
You drinking too much alcohol, alcohol abuse or alcohol dependency.
I think this term makes it clear that Mapfre wont cover any claims which are caused by
alcohol abuse or dependency. And its common ground that unfortunately, Mrs M had to
cancel her trip because Mr M was suffering from alcohol withdrawal. So I dont think it was
unfair for Mapfre to conclude that the circumstances of her claim were specifically excluded
by the terms of the contract.
The screening call
Mapfre has now provided me with a copy of the renewal call between Mrs M and the call
handler. Ive listened to this call very carefully. Mrs M did tell the call handler that her
husband had a history of excess alcohol consumption. This wasnt explored in any further
depth and neither did the call handler tell Mrs M that the policy specifically excluded cover
for alcohol abuse or dependency. Given Mrs Ms declaration, I think the call handler ought
reasonably to have explained this to Mrs M and made it clear that if this condition did lead to
a claim, it wouldnt be paid. On that basis, I think the call handler did make a mistake.
So Ive gone on to consider whether I think this mistake caused Mrs M to cause a financial
loss or to act in a way she wouldnt otherwise have done. And I dont think I could fairly find it
did as Ill go on to explain.
At the time the policy was renewed, Mrs M had already booked the trip and paid the deposit.
She told us that at the time, Mr M was fit and well and had been out of hospital for many
months. So I dont think I could reasonably say that Mapfres error led Mrs M to book the trip.
Or that she wouldve had any reason to think that Mr Ms condition was likely to lead to a
claim.
And in my experience, most, if not all, travel insurers exclude claims for alcohol-related 
medical reasons. So even if Mapfre had made the exclusion clear to Mrs M at the point of
renewal, I dont think its likely that shed have been able to find another policy which did
provide cover for this particular condition.
It seems from the call that Mrs M was happy with the policy she already had and the price
Mapfre had quoted for cover. So I think, on balance, shed most likely have gone ahead with
renewing the policy even if the general exclusion had been highlighted to her. And on that
basis, I dont currently think that Mapfre has caused her any material financial loss or
material distress and inconvenience which I could reasonably direct it to compensate her for.
Overall, I currently find that it was fair for Mapfre to turn down this claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or evidence they wanted me to 
consider.
Mapfre didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mrs M confirmed shed received my provisional decision, but didnt provide any additional 
comments.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any further evidence or comments for me to 
consider, I see no reason for me to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman