DRN-4149545
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) wont refund transactions totalling 
£314.06 which he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, on 13 August 2022 two payments were taken from Mr Gs 
Sainsburys credit card which he says he didnt authorise. Sainsburys and Mr G were unable 
to agree about things, so Mr G referred his complaint about Sainsburys to us. Our 
Investigator was unable to resolve the matter informally, so the case has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint for materially the same reasons as our 
Investigator.
The regulations relevant to this case are The Payment Services Regulations 2017. In short, 
banks will generally be liable for unauthorised payments; and a payment out of someones 
account can only be authorised if the payer has consented to it. So, whilst in this case 
Sainsburys has provided information that the two disputed payments in USA for the same 
amount to the same merchant were made by Apple Pay and in person, its not enough for 
Sainsburys to show how these payments were authenticated. To decide that Mr G 
authorised the payments, Id also need to be persuaded that Mr G most likely consented to 
them.
In this case the clarity of the technical information provided by Sainsburys isnt convincing. 
But Sainsburys has said, itself, that these were in person Apple Pay transactions made in 
the USA on 13 August 2022. Mr G has said he wasnt in the USA at the time. Sainsburys in 
my view hasnt provided persuasive evidence refuting this. And I note that technical 
information Sainsburys has sent suggests Mr Gs card was used in the UK for petrol on 10 
August 2022 and 15 August 2022, making it unlikely, in my view, that Mr G is being 
untruthful about this.  
I understand Sainsburys fraud prevention measures stopped two further attempted 
transactions to the same merchant in USA for exactly the same amount (again) on 
13 and 14 August 2022, which appear to have again been in person Apple Pay 
transactions. As our Investigator pointed out, such repeated transactions for the same 
amount to the same merchant are rather akin to the type of activity we might expect to see if 
this was fraud (which presumably Sainsburys agreed with hence its intervention). 
And in the absence of anything which persuades me Mr G is being untruthful about him 
neither consenting to these transactions nor personally being in USA to authenticate them, it 
seems to be more likely that something has gone amiss  and Mr G has somehow been 
tricked into his card being set up on Apple Pay on a third partys device, which has then 
been used to make the transactions without Mr Gs consent  rather than Mr G not being 
honest about things. Ive thought carefully about the technical information Sainsburys has 
provided in this respect, but like Ive said I dont think its particularly convincing. I can see 
Sainsburys, itself, had what appears to have been legitimate and understandable concerns 
about things during its investigation. And its not necessary to know or show exactly how 
things might have happened; fraudsters use increasingly sophisticated and tricky methods. 
And its enough to be satisfied that its most likely here that Mr G did not consent to these 
transactions. 
Im satisfied Sainsburys should therefore refund to Mr G the disputed payments totalling 
£314.06 plus any fees or charges that may have been incurred in relation to them. 
Sainsburys should also pay Mr G interest on the amount it refunds calculated at 8% simple 
per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay 
Mr G:
£314.06; plus
any associated fees and charges (if any); plus
interest on this amount calculated at 8% simple per year from the date the payments 
were taken from Mr Gs account to the date of settlement (if Sainsburys deducts tax 
from this interest, it should provide Mr G with the appropriate tax deduction 
certificate).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman