DRN-3113895
The complaint
Mr S, Mr L and Mr D complain that AmTrust Europe Limited (AmTrust) cancelled their policy 
when they made a claim for fire damage at their commercial property. The policy was jointly 
held by Mr S, Mr L and Mr D and they were represented by Mr P who brought the complaint 
on their behalf.  For ease, Ill refer only to Mr S.
What happened
Mr S took out Commercial Combined Insurance in 2018 to cover the business premises 
against material damage. In 2019 Mr S claimed under the policy following two separate fires, 
a month apart, which caused significant damage to the premises. AmTrust appointed a Loss 
Adjuster and, subsequently, a Forensic Investigator to investigate the claim.
The Forensic Investigator reported that there was evidence of vandalism, trespass, rough-
sleeping and drugs paraphernalia, all of which brought the security of the premises into 
question. AmTrust said Mr S hadnt reported these issues to it which was a requirement of 
the policy. 
AmTrust declined the claim and cancelled the policy stating that Mr S had failed to notify it in 
line with the policys Unoccupancy Restricted Perils conditions of the repeated unauthorised 
entries to the premises. 
Mr S complained to AmTrust because he thought the evidence it relied on to support its 
decision to cancel was ambiguous and didnt confirm a continuing issue with trespass. 
Therefore, there was no requirement under the policy for him to notify the insurer.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought AmTrust had provided enough 
evidence to show that Mr S failed to meet the conditions of the policy. Therefore, our 
investigator thought it was reasonable that AmTrust declined the claim and cancelled the 
policy.
Mr S didnt agree and, in addition to information already considered, he provided witness 
statements in support of his complaint.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Theres a lot of information about this complaint, the details of which are well known to both 
parties. Im not required to comment on everything, so I see no benefit in repeating the 
details here. Instead, Ill explain the reasons for my decision and refer to the evidence Ive 
relied upon to reach that decision. 
The issue is that Mr S doesnt think AmTrust treated him fairly when it cancelled his policy. 
He thinks it should reinstate the policy and settle the claim. My remit is to look at whether the 
reasons AmTrust gave for cancelling the policy were fair and in line with the terms and 
conditions. 
Mr Ss policy provided cover for fire and thats not disputed. However, the policy included an 
endorsement which meant that cover was only available if Mr S met certain requirements 
when the premises were unoccupied. The policy schedule states:
BU32 Unoccupancy Restricted Perils
When any Building(s) (or part thereof) are Unoccupied:
1. Cover under this Certificate will be restricted to the Insured Perils of fire, lightning, 
aircraft and explosion.
2. You must comply with the requirements a) - i) below otherwise all Damage arising from 
or caused by the Insured Perils of fire and explosion will be excluded.
You must ensure that;
a) all gas, water and electricity mains supplies are kept disconnected (except those 
supplies required to maintain automatic sprinkler installations, lighting or alarm 
systems which are to remain in operation for security or fire protection purposes)
b) all water tanks, apparatus, pipes and heating (except those required to maintain 
fully functional automatic sprinkler systems) are drained down
c)  The following minimum protections are in operation:
i) all doors and windows are securely locked and fastened
ii) any letter boxes are sealed
iii) all security and alarm protections are set in full operation and are in proper 
working order
d) i) When the Premises first become Unoccupied You or Your nominee must carry 
out a detailed inspection of all doors, windows and other access points to ensure 
that they are secure against unauthorised entry and document both the inspection 
and any action required.
ii) Thereafter, You or Your nominee must inspect the Premises every seven days, 
keeping a written record noting any damage or breaches in security. If measures 
taken to prevent further damage or breaches in security have proved inadequate, 
improvements must be made and documented.
iii) If unauthorised entry or attempt thereat is detected more than three times in any 
one Period of Insurance, immediate notice must be given to Insurers
e) all loose or moveable combustible items or materials other than fixtures and fittings 
are at all times removed from the Buildings and cleared from the Premises
f)    all waste or refuse is removed from the Buildings and cleared at least once a week 
from the Premises
g) tanks containing fuel or other flammable liquids are drained and purged within 7 
days of the Buildings becoming Unoccupied
h) the Buildings are inspected at least once every 7 days by You or Your nominee in 
order to inspect the Premises both internally and externally and to carry out any 
work necessary to maintain the above security arrangements. A record will be kept 
of such inspections.
Ive looked at Mr Ss witness statement of June 2021 and he confirmed he was aware of the 
endorsement.
I see that AmTrust cancelled the policy because it didnt think Mr S had complied with 
requirements C, D, E, F and H. AmTrust had made a Freedom of Information (FOI) request 
to the Local Authority about reports of any incidents of trespass since the policy start date. Ive looked at the response it received from the Local Authority and note that AmTrust relied 
on the following observations to inform its decision to cancel the policy:
Environmental Protection Officers patrolled the site at the end of January 2019 and found:
Waste had been deposited at the site.
The building was unsecured.
Rough-sleepers were present.
And during a visit five days later:
Premises still unsecured.
Homeless still sleeping rough inside.
The fire service prohibited the premises (believed to be at risk of fire).
Its worth pointing out here that the Neighbourhood Office, which provides assistance for 
residents in the area, made two requests to the Local Authoritys Environmental Health and 
Protection teams asking for regular patrols of Mr Ss premises. And its clear from the 
incident reports that the premises hadnt been fully secured to prevent access. Ive thought 
about Mr Ss point that the incident reports confirm he was working on securing the building, 
and Environmental Protection officers later confirmed the building was boarded up. 
However, I think it was fair that AmTrust expected to see evidence that he was keeping the 
building secure and free of waste in line with the policy conditions. 
This brings me on to part D of the policy endorsement which requires Mr S to complete 
detailed inspections at least every seven days.
d) i) When the Premises first become Unoccupied You or Your nominee must carry out a 
detailed inspection of all doors, windows and other access points to ensure that they are 
secure against unauthorised entry and document both the inspection and any action 
required.
ii) Thereafter, You or Your nominee must inspect the Premises every seven days, 
keeping a written record noting any damage or breaches in security. If measures taken 
to prevent further damage or breaches in security have proved inadequate, 
improvements must be made and documented.
iii) If unauthorised entry or attempt thereat is detected more than three times in any one 
Period of Insurance, immediate notice must be given to Insurers
I understand Mr S kept a written log of inspections in his personal diary. Unfortunately, his 
diary was stolen during a burglary the day his insurance broker was due to take copies, 
therefore, Mr S no longer has a log of the visits he completed. Ive looked at the witness 
statements of both Mr S and his broker which confirm this sequence of events, and I have no 
reason to doubt that. However, while I understand the theft wouldve been frustrating to Mr 
S, I cant reasonably say that it was unfair for AmTrust to decline the claim. It was Mr Ss 
responsibility to show that hed complied with the policy requirements and, in the 
circumstances he wasnt able to. I dont think AmTrust did anything wrong here.
Ive looked at why AmTrust didnt think the weekly inspections had taken place in line with 
clause H of the endorsement. The evidence provided by the Local Authority, Forensic 
Investigator, and fire service included reference to:
waste, including drugs paraphernalia, on site
a bed with make-shift insulation boards affixed to the building 
empty food containers with expiry dates
dated graffiti
vandalismwiring/pipework removed
childs witness statement that the building was known to be used by local drug 
addicts and that rough-sleepers were living in the premises.
Because of the dated graffiti, food containers, and clear evidence left behind showing long-
term use by rough-sleepers and drug addicts, AmTrust thought that if Mr S had carried out 
weekly inspections, he wouldve been aware of the unauthorised access. In his witness 
statement, Mr S said, I do not know the precise dates on which the inspections took place. I 
can however confirm that none of the inspections resulted in a detection by the Claimants or 
their nominees of an unauthorised access to the [premises] or an attempt thereat. 
Im persuaded that AmTrust reached a reasonable conclusion that Mr S hadnt completed 
the weekly inspections. Thats because, if he had, its likely hed have seen the belongings, 
waste and vandalism reported separately by the Forensic Investigator, fire service and Local 
Authority, indicating that someone was gaining access regularly over a longer period. 
Based on this evidence, I think its reasonable that AmTrust didnt think Mr S had complied 
with requirements E, F and H, to notify it of repeated unauthorised access, complete weekly 
inspections or remove combustible materials and waste from the premises at least each 
week.
AmTrust provided a copy of the Local Authoritys response to its FOI request which 
confirmed there was an issue with the security of the boundary from at least October 2018. 
The response also said Mr S had contacted Environmental Health as late as two weeks 
before the fire, in March and April 2019, to say he had concerns about ongoing access. Part 
D (ii) of the policy states:
If measures taken to prevent further damage or breaches in security have proved 
inadequate, improvements must be made and documented.
While it seems the party responsible for the boundary wasnt making it secure, the policy 
makes it clear that, regardless of whether the boundary was his, Mr S had a responsibility to 
ensure access to his property was restricted. Because he hadnt made any improvements to 
the security, I think it was reasonable that AmTrust considered Mr S had breached this term.
Overall, Im satisfied that AmTrust provided enough evidence to explain to Mr S why it 
thought he hadnt met the terms of the policy and, therefore, declined his claim. So, Ive 
gone on to look at whether it was reasonable for AmTrust to cancel the policy.
AmTrust cancelled the policy stating:
Section 6. Cancellation of [the policy]
6.3 Insurers may cancel this insurance where there is a valid reason for doing so. Valid 
reasons may include but are not limited to: 
where Insurers are made aware of changes in the Insured's circumstances which 
mean that it is no longer possible for Insurers to continue to provide cover under this 
policy
where the Insured fails to meet one or more of the terms and conditions which are 
set out as a requirement for providing insurance cover, or where a failure has been 
established and Insurers have given the Insured time to rectify, if the Insured fails to 
comply with the terms and conditions within the time period specified;As explained above, AmTrust considered that Mr S failed to meet the conditions set out as a 
requirement for providing cover, and he failed to disclose the unauthorised access gained to 
his premises on more than three occasions:
iii) If unauthorised entry or attempt thereat is detected more than three times in any one 
Period of Insurance, immediate notice must be given to Insurers
Ive looked at what AmTrust wouldve done if Mr S had disclosed the information to see 
whether it mattered. AmTrust confirmed, if [Mr S] advised them of the unauthorised entry 
mid-term that the policy would have been cancelled at the point of being advised of this. So, 
on concluding that the requirements for cover hadnt been met, it applied the cancellation 
retrospectively to the date Mr S could reasonably have been aware of the unauthorised 
access and shouldve notified it. That means the policy was no longer in place when the fires 
happened and Mr S didnt have cover. 
Ive thought carefully about the overall circumstances of this complaint. AmTrust provided 
the cover for Mr S knowing that the commercial premises had been empty for two years and 
that he had plans to renovate the building and change the type of business. So AmTrust was 
aware of the increased risks and put conditions in place to mitigate that, which Mr S 
confirmed he was aware of. Im satisfied that AmTrust has provided enough evidence to 
show that it reasonably concluded Mr S didnt meet the conditions. Because of that, AmTrust 
declined Mr Ss claim and withdrew cover. For the reasons Ive given here, I think AmTrust 
was entitled to cancel the policy in line with the Unoccupancy Restricted Perils endorsement. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that AmTrust treated Mr S unfairly, so I see no 
reason to require AmTrust to reinstate cover or settle the claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, Mr L and Mr 
S to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman