DRN-2822949
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with a claim against
their travel insurance policy. Reference to Great Lakes includes reference to its agents.
  
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs N booked accommodation for three people for 5 June 2020
to 8 June 2020. On 17 February 2020, Mr and Mrs N booked their flights with intended
departure and return dates of 2 June 2020 and 8 June 2020 respectively. I understand
that the trip was in order to attend a wedding.
On 17 February 2020, Mr and Mrs N also bought a single trip travel insurance policy with
Great Lakes. Mrs N declared one medical condition. The total premium was £37.28.
On 25 February 2020, Mr and Mrs N purchased additional cover for Excess Waiver, Natural
Catastrophe/Terrorism and Enhanced Trip Disruption. Mr N declared one medical
condition and Mrs N declared two medical conditions. The total premium was £91. 
On 9 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ns destination country was placed into nationwide
quarantine by its government. On 10 March 2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth
Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Ns destination
country. On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 a
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the FCO advised against all but essential travel abroad
and that guidance remained in place until July 2020.
The airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Ns flights due to Covid-19 and subsequently refunded 
their flight costs. In May 2020, Mr N cancelled the hotel accommodation. Mr and Mrs N
had obtained a discounted rate for a non-refundable booking. I understand that the
accommodation provider offered Mr and Mrs N a voucher valid until 6 June 2021. They
didnt wish to accept the offer of a voucher, as the wedding was no longer going ahead.
Mr and Mrs N claimed against their policy in relation to their accommodation costs.
Great Lakes declined Mr and Mrs Ns claim. It said that the policy doesnt cover what 
happened here. Great Lakes said that Mr and Mrs Ns trip wasnt within seven days 
of WHO declaring Covid-19 a pandemic on 11 March 2020, so there was no cover.
Mr and Mrs N say that they paid extra for the upgrade but its effectively worthless 
because of the limitations of the cover. They want Great Lakes to settle their claim 
in relation to their accommodation.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She thought that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Great Lakes to deal with the claim. That was because WHO declared
Covid-19 a pandemic on 11 March 2020, so what happened here comes within the policy 
definition of Natural Catastrophe. The investigator said that its reasonable to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs Ns departure was delayed for at least 24 hours.
The investigator said that the pandemic continued to impact the trip and the FCO advice 
in relation to non-essential travel abroad remained in place on Mr and Mrs Ns intended 
departure date. The investigator said that as the pandemic continued to impact
Mr and Mrs Ns trip, she didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes to decline the claim 
because their departure date was more than seven days after WHO declared Covid-19 a 
pandemic.
Great Lakes didnt agree with the adjudicator. It said:
Mr and Mrs Ns flight was cancelled, not delayed.
The cover for Natural Catastrophe is very specific in that it covers trips due to 
take place within seven days from the event start date. The event start date here 
is 11 March 2020, the date WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic. Mr and Mrs N 
were not due to travel until June 2020, so their claim doesnt fall within this 
section of the policy.
The investigator suggests that it ignores the seven day eligibility criteria in relation 
to the cover and pay a claim thats not covered by the policy.
Its neither fair nor reasonable to ignore the specific terms of the cover.
Mr and Mrs N purchased the standard policy initially then, a few days later, 
they purchased the upgrade covering natural catastrophe, no doubt due to the 
increasing concern about Covid-19. The cancellation of the trip wasnt 
unforeseeable at the time Mr and Mrs N purchased the policy and upgrade.
The investigator considered what Great Lakes said but it didnt change her view. She 
said that when Mr and Mrs N purchased the upgrade, they couldnt reasonably have 
foreseen the effects of the pandemic. The investigator said that the FCO didnt advise 
against travel to Mr and Mrs Ns destination country until 10 March 2020 and WHO didnt 
declare Covid-19 a pandemic until 11 March 2020. She said that Great Lakes says that it 
issued new policies between 24 February 2020 and 13 March 2020 with additional cover 
for cancellation, which suggests that when Mr and Mrs N purchased the upgrade, Great 
Lakes didnt consider Covid-19 to be a known risk.
Great Lakes asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide.
My provisional decision
On 5 May 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I said 
that I intended to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint with a slightly different outcome and, 
in part, for different reasons than had been explained before. I said that I proposed to 
direct Great Lakes to deal with Mr and Mrs Ns claim in accordance with the remaining 
terms of the policy and pay interest on any settlement. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy. Section A of the policy covers 
Cancellation or Curtailment and lists the events leading to cancellation which are 
covered under the policy. Those events arent relevant here. That section of the policy 
also says:What is covered:
[]
We will only pay for financial loss You suffer on behalf of any travelling companion if they 
are insured and named on this policy. If Your travelling companion is not insured under this 
policy You will need to claim against their travel insurance policy for any amount that You 
have paid on their behalf.
Mr and Mrs Ns claim is under the Enhanced Trip Disruption part of the policy, purchased 
as an upgrade and which provides as follows:
Sections P and Q  Enhanced Trip Disruption
This cover is secondary to claiming from any other source. You must check with your airline, 
travel agent, accommodation provider or tour operator if they can refund Your costs or 
rearrange Your trip before contacting us to make a claim. []
Your claim will not be covered if, at the time of buying the policy or booking a trip 
(whichever is later) a reason to make a claim has been published in the media. For 
example, a natural catastrophe affecting Your departure has occurred and is publicised in 
the media and you buy this policy following the media announcement.
[]
Natural Catastrophe  Pandemic as declared by the World Health Organisation []
Event Start Date  The point in time when the Natural Catastrophe [] occurred as 
reported in the media. This point in time will be set at Our discretion.
[]
Section P  Enhanced Trip Disruption Following Terrorism or Natural Catastrophe 
Event
Section P1  Abandonment Before You Start Your Trip
Please refer to Section A Cancellation or Curtailment as this section forms the basis of 
cover. If You have purchased this upgrade, What is covered under Section A is extended 
to include the following:
If a Natural Catastrophe [] delays Your departure from the UK for at least 24 hours from 
the start of your trip, You can claim up to the amount in the Schedule of Benefits for pre-
paid transportation and accommodation costs, paid or contracted to be paid (and [which] 
are not recoverable from any other source).
If a Natural Catastrophe [] occurs within 20km of your Arrival Point or Your pre-booked 
accommodation abroad and the start of your trip is within 7 days from the Event Start 
Date, You may be able to claim up to the amount in the Schedule of Benefits for for (sic) 
pre-paid transportation and accommodation costs, paid or contracted to be paid (and 
[which] are not recoverable from any other source).
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont think that Great Lakes treated Mr and Mrs N fairly and reasonably in declining 
their claim. Ill explain why.I dont agree that when Mr and Mrs N purchased the policy upgrade in
February 2020, the cancellation of their trip was foreseeable. At that point, the 
FCO hadnt advised against travel to their destination country and WHO hadnt 
declared Covid-19 a pandemic. Great Lakes is the expert here and I understand 
that up to 13 March 2020, it continued to issue policies with additional cover for 
cancellation. That suggests that in February 2020, Great Lakes didnt consider 
Covid-19 to be a known risk.
What happened here comes within the definition of a Natural Catastrophe in 
the policy, which includes a pandemic declared by WHO. The Event Start 
Date is 11 March 2020, that is, the date on which WHO declared Covid-19 a 
pandemic.
Great Lakes says that Mr and Mrs Ns flight was cancelled, not delayed, so there 
isnt a valid claim under the first limb of the relevant policy provision which Ive set 
out above. The impact of the cancellation of a flight can be the same as when a 
flight is delayed. Given the circumstances surrounding Covid-19, the airline 
couldnt have offered Mr and Mrs N a new flight. However, in any event, I think 
there are other reasons to uphold this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain.
In Mr and Mrs Ns case, the second limb of the relevant policy term only provides 
cover where the pandemic is within 20km of their arrival point or their pre-booked 
accommodation abroad and the start of their trip is within seven days from the 
date WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic: so only for trips starting between         
12 March 2020 and 18 March 2020. I dont think its particularly unusual for 
insurers to put distance or time limits on this sort of cover, but I think that these are 
significant limitations. In particular, thats quite a narrow window for a successful 
claim.
I think that the limitations on the cover following a natural catastrophe should have 
been brought to Mr and Mrs Ns attention at the outset, to enable them to decide 
whether the policy met their needs. I dont think that the policy summary made it 
clear to Mr and Mrs N that their cover for a natural catastrophe contained 
significant limitations. The policy summary referred Mr and Mrs N to the policy 
wording, but I dont think thats enough to draw Mr and Mrs Ns attention to the 
significant limitations. So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to 
reject Mr and Mrs Ns claim in the circumstances of this case.
Even if I decided that Great Lakes could rely on the limitations of the cover, I dont 
think that would produce a fair and reasonable outcome here. Thats because      
Mr and Mrs N bought the upgrade to their policy in good faith and for peace of 
mind should their trip be disrupted due to a natural catastrophe. The pandemic 
disrupted their trip and meant that they couldnt use their pre booked 
accommodation. Mr and Mrs Ns claim has the same components as a claim 
against the policy which Great Lakes would pay except that their trips start date 
was in June 2020. I think that its unfair and unreasonable for Great Lakes to 
decline Mr and Mrs Ns claim simply because their trips start date was outside the 
narrow window provided in the policy, particularly as the FCO advice against all but 
essential travel abroad remained in place at the time of Mr and Mrs Ns intended 
departure date. In the particular circumstances of this case and given the unprecedented and 
unusual circumstances the global pandemic created, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Mr and Mrs N to decline the offer of a voucher for the 
accommodation, as the purpose of the trip was a wedding thats no longer taking 
place.
Mr and Mrs Ns accommodation was for three people. Theyve explained that their 
booking included their son who hoped to join them. Their policy provides cover for 
only Mr and Mrs Ns loss, not for a travelling companion not insured under the 
policy. Mr and Mrs Ns son isnt covered under the policy. So Great Lakes should 
pay Mr and Mrs Ns proportion of the accommodation costs.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs N said that they had no further comments. Great Lakes said:
It has clarified that Mr and Mrs N purchased the additional catastrophe and 
excess waiver cover on 25 February 2020. 
Mr and Mrs N first bought the policy without catastrophe cover and 
approximately one week later chose to add on catastrophe cover and excess 
waiver. So, they made a conscious decision to add cover, presumably after 
considering their circumstances and the policy cover available, which was set 
out in the policy wording. 
Its extremely contentious to suggest that the policy summary doesnt draw 
attention to the limitation of the catastrophe cover. The policy summary cant 
go into great detail, otherwise it would become too complex.
The catastrophe cover is an optional section of the policy and it wouldnt be 
reasonable to go into great detail on whats a limited document highlighting 
the main elements of cover. 
The optional cover is priced according to the cover it gives.
Mr and Mrs N must have read about the cover as they confirmed on the 
website that they have read and understood the cover they were purchasing.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the matter again. Great Lakes points to the gap between Mr and Mrs N 
buying the policy on 17 February 2020 and buying the add-on cover for waiver, natural 
catastrophe/terrorism and enhanced trip disruption on 25 February 2020. It says that          
Mr and Mrs N made a conscious decision to add cover, presumably after considering their 
circumstances and the cover available. I dont think its reasonable to conclude that as        
Mr and Mrs N purchased the additional cover after they bought the policy, they knew the 
precise terms of the cover. I dont agree that its extremely contentious to say that the policy summary doesnt draw 
attention to the limitation of the catastrophe cover: its a statement of fact. The policy 
summary lists only the title of the additional cover available and gives no information about 
the extent of the cover. I appreciate that the policy summary cant include everything. But I 
think that as the enhanced travel disruption cover only covers a very small window of 
disrupted trips  in this case, trips due to start within seven days of the Event Start Date -  
Great Lakes should have brought that limitation to the attention of Mr and Mrs N, so that they 
could decide if the cover met their needs. 
Great Lakes says that the optional cover is priced according to the cover it gives. It hasnt 
provided a breakdown of the premium it charged but I dont think that the price is the 
determining issue here. I think that if Mr and Mrs N had been made aware of the significant 
limitations of the natural catastrophe/terrorism and enhanced trip disruption cover they 
wouldnt have purchased it and would have looked for cover from another insurer. Had they 
done so, I think it is most likely they would have been able to purchase cover that wasnt 
limited in this way.  
I dont think that the fact that the cover was in the terms and conditions is sufficient in this 
case. Thats because the distance and time limits of the cover are significant limitations that 
should have been brought to Mr and Mrs Ns attention at the time of purchase. 
Ive considered what Great Lakes has said but I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions in my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
To put things right, Great Lakes should deal with Mr and Mrs Ns claim in accordance with 
the remaining terms of the policy. It should also pay interest on any settlement at the 
simple rate of 8% per year, from the date they made their claim to the date it makes the 
payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Great Lakes to take off tax from this interest. Great Lakes
must give Mr and Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint against Great Lakes Insurance 
SE and direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman