DRN-2365246
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined their claim for 
subsidence, under their buildings insurance policy. 
When I refer to Admiral, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or 
representatives. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mr H noticed a crack to the external wall of the porch at their house. He 
reported this to Admiral, who arranged for their expert to attend. 
The expert visited in July 2018, and shortly after the visit Admiral declined the claim. They 
said the damage hadnt been caused by subsidence, or any other peril covered in the policy, 
so the claim couldnt be dealt with. 
Almost a year later, in June 2019, Mr H noticed that the cracking was getting worse. He 
arranged for his own report to be completed, which suggested the cause of the damage was 
subsidence. He got back in touch with Admiral and asked them to re-open the claim. 
Admiral asked for a copy of Mr Hs expert report, and having considered it, advised Mr H that 
theyd need to revisit to assess the damage again. A visit was arranged for January 2020, 
but Mr H had had all the repairs completed by then, as he was worried about the safety of 
his family. As Admiral were unable to attend the house to assess the damage, they 
continued to decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy about this and they complained to Admiral. Admiral didnt 
change their mind. They explained to Mr and Mrs H that his report alone wasnt enough to 
suggest that subsidence was the cause, and because he hadnt undertaken any other 
investigations and had now had the repairs completed, nothing further could be done. 
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
said that he felt Mr Hs report was inconclusive. And, although it mentioned subsidence as a 
potential cause, the lack of any further investigation and the repair works being completed 
meant that Admiral were unable to validate the cause of the damage. So, he said it was 
reasonable for Admiral to decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said that it was reasonable to have the work undertaken 
and Admiral could have undertaken the additional investigations at the time the claim was 
made originally. 
As they didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral have declined Mr and Mrs Hs claim as they say the damage caused wasnt as a 
result of an insured peril but was caused by the nature of the porchs construction. What I 
need to decide is if Admiral have acted fairly in declining the claim for this reason. And in this 
case, I think they have. Ill explain why. 
When Admiral visited Mr and Mrs Hs house in July 2018 to assess the damage, they 
concluded that it hadnt been caused by subsidence. Their experts letter to Mr and Mrs H 
declining the claim stated:
it is my opinion that the crack to the front left corner has not arisen as a result of 
subsidence or indeed any other insured event, but has been caused by localised stress from 
lateral thrust place on the window above from the roof. There appeared no corresponding 
damage internally and it is my view that there was no mechanism of downward movement 
consistent with subsidence.
As Admiral were of the opinion that the damage wasnt covered by Mr and Mrs Hs insurance 
policy, they werent required to do any additional testing or investigation into the cause of the 
damage. The onus fell on Mr and Mrs H to confirm the cause of the damage, and that this 
was something their policy covered them for. 
As the cracking got worse, Mr and Mrs H did seek guidance from their own expert who also 
produced a report. This report suggested that subsidence was the cause. It said:
a rainwater gully exists at the rear of the side return of the porch, and the underground 
drainage runs from this gully towards the road. The drain run was apparently unblocked in 
recent years, but the subsidence to the corner of the porch suggests that this drainage run is 
leaking into the ground and eroding the foundation at the west corner. Diagonal cracking to 
the porch masonry is consistent to the porch subsiding at this south west corner and the 
porch tilting forwards.
I accept the report suggests subsidence. But Im not persuaded that the report on its own is 
conclusive evidence. Indeed, the report also explains what should happen next to help 
determine the cause of the damage. It states:
The drainage run initially has to be investigated by a specialist drainage company and a full 
CCTV survey undertaken. The drainage should be lined or replaced as recommended.
When Admiral reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs report, they asked them to provide the additional 
drainage investigations theyd undertaken, the results of those investigations as well as any 
other information they had to support their position. But Mr and Mrs H werent able to do this. 
Mr H confirmed to Admiral that they hadnt had the CCTV survey done, they hadnt had any 
further investigation carried out, and all the repairs had been completed. 
When an insurance claim is made, the onus is on the insured to prove there is an insured 
peril that would be covered  so it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral to want to see this 
information, or to want to revisit Mr and Mrs H once theyd had the opportunity to consider 
their report. But Mr H had already had the repairs completed - meaning Admiral could only 
reconsider their position based on the reports they had available. As Ive said previously, Im 
not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Hs report on its own is conclusive evidence that the porch 
was damaged by subsidence. So, I dont think theyve done enough to prove there is an insured peril. As a result, Im satisfied that Admirals continued decision to decline the claim 
was a fair one and I wont be asking them to do anything else in regard to this. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman