DRN-3975270
The complaint
Mr L has complained Santander UK plc wont refund money lost as the result of a scam. He 
also believes he would have been able to get money back if hed been given correct 
information by one of their advisors.
What happened
Whilst overseas, Mr L was looking to book a holiday. He was having difficulty booking what 
he wanted and phoned a company listed on the internet, thinking that was the company he 
was looking for. Mr L provided his card details but then realised he was being scammed.
Mr L immediately called Santander and told them he could see the amount pending on his 
app. He was given the impression that the transaction wouldnt proceed as itd not been fully 
authenticated.
Santander wouldnt subsequently refund £1,693.96 as Mr L had entered the one-time 
passcode to confirm the transaction was genuine. A subsequent payment of £1,366.36 had 
been stopped as no OTP had been entered. Mr L was adamant hed never entered the OTP 
and that Santander had misled him. This meant hed not tried other avenues to get his 
money back. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the evidence on the case, including Santanders audit trail of the 
payments made by Mr L. He felt that it was most likely Mr L had entered the OTP and this 
had confirmed to Santander that the transaction was genuine. He wasnt going to ask 
Santander to refund him. He noted that Santander had not been sufficiently clear when 
discussing the disputed transaction with Mr L but felt that wasnt enough to require them to 
put things right.
Mr L continued to argue hed not entered the OTP and felt Santanders actions had led him 
to being out of pocket. He asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ls complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ls case.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander and Mr L have told us. I dont dispute that Mr L fell victim to a scam but 
Im not sure he was instantly aware of this. As soon as the first payment had been made  at 
12:14 on 30 June 2022  a further payment was attempted. This payment didnt proceed as 
no OTP was entered. 
Ive considered what Mr L has told us about never entering the OTP for the first payment, but 
I think its most likely he did. I say this because theres no other way the OTP could have 
been entered. I know Mr L has suggested there could have been a technical error which 
caused the OTP to be entered but this doesnt match the audit information Santander holds 
about the transaction. I suspect things were happening quite quickly and Mr L initially 
believed he was making a genuine payment and entered the OTP. It was only when he saw 
the second payment required further authentication that he realised what had happened and 
didnt provide the OTP for the second payment. 
I agree that the advisor didnt provide Mr L with clear information about what had happened. 
Most individuals wont appreciate the nuances between payments being regarded as 
pending but still authorised and unable to be recalled. However at no stage was Mr L told 
that hed get the money back, nor could his payment be stopped, so I dont agree Mr L was 
stopped from pursuing other options to try and get the money back himself.
Overall I dont believe it would be fair to ask Santander to refund Mr L.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ls complaint against Santander 
UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman