DRN-3927513
The complaint
Mr P complains about charges N.I.I.B Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance 
(Northridge) made following rejection of his vehicle.
 
What happened
Mr P entered a hire purchase agreement with Northridge in August 2020 to acquire a used 
car. 
Soon after he acquired the car Mr P experienced problems with the gearbox, and a number 
of attempts were made to repair it by the dealership, including advice from the manufacturer, 
but the problem was not resolved. 
An inspection was completed in June 2022 which concluded that there was a transmission 
problem with the car and although repair attempts had been made, the problem hadnt been 
fixed. 
Mr P complained to Northridge in June 2022 and asked to reject the car. 
Northridge sent Mr P their final response to his complaint in July 2022. They said the 
dealership accepted rejection of the car, and they made a settlement offer reflecting Mr Ps 
use of the car. They said they would refund Mr Ps £10,000 deposit and the payments hed 
made toward the agreement, but they would deduct a charge of 45 pence per mile for the 
total mileage that Mr P had driven the car. They calculated the refund due to Mr P as 
£8,995.01. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint to our service for investigation. He said the 
offer made by Northridge would mean hed lose over £10,000 in payments for a faulty 
vehicle. 
Our investigator gave his view that the agreement between Mr P and Northridge didnt allow 
for an additional mileage charge to be made. He said Mr P had fair use of the car whilst it 
was in his possession, but the monthly payment agreed between Mr P and Northridge at the 
outset represented a fair charge for this use. 
Our investigator said Northridge should remove any charge for mileage, and refund Mr Ps 
deposit plus interest. He also recommended that Northridge refund the £160 Mr P paid for 
the engineers report, as this wouldnt have been needed if the car wasnt faulty when 
supplied, and they should pay Mr P £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Northridge didnt agree. They said the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) sets out that 
consumers should exercise their right to reject quickly, but Mr P continued to use the vehicle 
for two years and travelled around 21,000 miles, so it wasnt unreasonable for them to make 
a deduction to any refund to reflect this use, and 45 pence per mile was an industry 
standard. 
Mr P said hed still be left out of pocket if Northridge agreed to our investigators 
recommendations. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Mr P was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
Northridge have accepted rejection of the car, so I havent considered whether or not the 
good were satisfactory quality when they were supplied, only whether Northridges offer 
does enough to put things right. 
As Mr P has been allowed his final right to reject the car, Northridge should arrange for it to 
be collected at no further cost to Mr P and refund his £10,000 deposit plus 8% simple 
interest. 
Northridge said that Mr P shouldve exercised his right to reject the vehicle quickly, but 
instead hes had it for two years. I can see that Mr P first raised the fault with the gearbox 
with the dealership in around October 2020, shortly after the car was acquired. Mr P worked 
with the dealership that supplied the vehicle on a number of occasions over that time period, 
giving them the opportunity to repair the vehicle. As Mr P wanted to keep the vehicle, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of him to ask for it to be repaired, or to decide to reject it only 
when it became clear that a repair solution couldnt be found. 
I cant see that Mr P contacted Northridge until June 2022, when he asked them to reject the 
car. I think its reasonable that Mr P contacted the dealership that he purchased the car from 
in order to try and have the faults repaired, and that he continued to try and work with them 
to reach this outcome, prior to contacting Northridge. 
Northridge have calculated the refund due to Mr P following rejection to include his deposit 
and the payments made under the agreement, minus a charge of 45 pence per mile that Mr 
P has driven the car. They say they are able to deduct a charge for the use of the vehicle. Mr 
P has asked for a refund of all payments he made under the agreement because the car 
was faulty from the start. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) sets out that where the final right to reject is 
exercised, any refund can be reduced by a deduction for use, taking account of the use the 
consumer has had of the goods. 
Ive thought about what reflects a fair deduction for the use Mr P had of the car. 
Ive looked at the agreement between Northridge and Mr P. When it was entered, Northridge 
and Mr P came to an agreement for the amount that Mr P would pay in order to use the car, 
which was £384.03 a month. The agreement doesnt contain a mileage allowance or any provision which allows 
Northridge to charge Mr P for mileage or excess mileage. 
Mr P has driven the car around 22,000 miles in the two years that hes had it, which is 
around what Id expect to see for a vehicle of this type over this time period. So, hes driven 
it an average number of miles. 
As Mr P has neither excessively underused nor excessively overused the car in the period, 
Im persuaded that the monthly payment originally agreed represents a fair charge for the 
use Mr P had of the vehicle. 
So, I find its reasonable for Northridge to retain all of the monthly payments made by Mr P to 
reflect the use hes had of the car, but not to charge him at the rate of 45 pence per mile 
driven.  
Mr P paid £160 for a diagnostic report, which showed the continued fault with the vehicle. It 
wouldnt have been needed if the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied, and so Northridge should refund Mr P for the cost of this, plus 8% simple interest. 
Our investigator recommended that Northridge pay Mr P £200 compensation. Mr P has been 
put to distress and inconvenience in arranging a number of repair attempts to the vehicle, 
which havent been successful. Overall, Im satisfied that £200 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr P.
 
Putting things right
Northridge have accepted that Mr P is allowed his final right to reject the vehicle, meaning 
that they should end the agreement with nothing further to pay, collect the car at no further 
cost to Mr P and refund the deposit he paid plus interest. 
Mr P has had use of the car, and Im satisfied that his normal monthly payment reflects a fair 
charge for the use hes had, so Northridge dont need to refund any of the payments Mr P 
has made, and they should remove the 45 pence per mile charge for use. 
Mr P has paid for a diagnostic report, and I think its reasonable for Northridge to refund Mr P 
for the cost of this, and to pay him £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and N.I.I.B Group Limited trading as 
Northridge Finance must: 
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr P.
Refund Mr Ps deposit of £10,000 plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Refund Mr P £160 for the diagnostic report plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr P £200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.If Northridge considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman