DRN-3922708
The complaint
Mr M complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited unfairly declined his claim 
and cancelled his policy following a road traffic accident (RTA).
What happened
Mr M held a motor insurance policy with Watford Insurance. In October 2022, he was 
involved in an RTA where he crashed into a stationary vehicle. Police attended and Mr M 
was breathalysed at the scene, he produced a specimen of breath that was over the legal 
limit. Mr M informed Watford Insurance of this when he raised his claim, and, as a result, his 
claim was declined, and his policy cancelled. Unhappy with this, Mr M complained. 
Watford Insurance responded. It said the terms of Mr Ms policy do not provide cover where 
the insured, or any other driver, is involved in an incident while driving with an alcohol level 
in excess of the legal limit; driving while unfit through drink or drugs; or failing to provide a 
blood, urine or breath specimen (other than for a roadside test), for analysis. So, they 
declined Mr Ms claim, and exercised what they said was their right to cancel the policy, as 
Mr M had breached the terms of the agreement. Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his 
complaint to our service.
The investigator initially didnt recommend that the case was upheld, as he felt the insurer 
was entitled to rely on the above terms, but he later revisited his opinion and recommended 
Mr Ms complaint was upheld, as he believed Mr M had later provided a negative specimen 
of breath and was subsequently let go. He therefore didnt think it was fair for Watford 
Insurance to rely on that policy term. But Watford Insurance disagreed, so the case was 
passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
From the evidence provided, it seems that on the date of the event in question, Mr M was 
driving and hit a stationary vehicle. This is not in dispute, and there was no other party 
involved in the RTA. The police attended and Mr M provided a positive specimen of breath at 
the roadside. He was then taken to the hospital prior to being taken into custody, as he was 
presenting signs of being unwell. Mr M was then returned to the station, and subsequently 
allowed to leave with no charge. 
Mr M has argued that he was not prosecuted, and that he has 2 years no claims discount 
(NCD), which supports the fact that alcohol consumption was not the cause of the accident. 
However, in this case, its not my role to determine what caused the accident but, instead, to 
decide whether or not Watford Insurance acted fairly in declining Mr Ms claim and cancelling 
his policy in line with the policy terms.
Section 1 of Mr Ms policy with Watford Insurance states:
What is not covered
 We will not pay for any of the following:
Loss or damage arising whilst Your Car is being driven by, or in the charge of, a driver 
described on Your Certificate of Motor Insurance as an insured driver, or any other person 
who is:
Driving with an alcohol level in excess of the legal limit; or
Driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs; whether prescribed or otherwise; or
Failing to provide a blood, urine or breath specimen when required to do so, without
lawful reason;
In this case, the relevant part of the term is whether or not Mr M was driving with an alcohol 
level in excess of the legal limit. In the UK, that is 35 micrograms of alcohol per 100 millilitres 
of breath. Having carried out further investigation, Ive received feedback from the arresting 
officer, who has confirmed that at the time of the incident, the breathalyser recorded that Mr 
M was 9 micrograms over the prescribed limit, which is a level of 44 micrograms. So, based 
on this alone, it seems that Mr M had breached the terms of his policy at the time of his 
accident, by driving with an alcohol level in excess of the legal limit.
So, on the face of it, it doesnt seem unreasonable for Watford Insurance to decline Mr Ms 
claim, cancel his policy and to pursue any funds owed. 
Mr M has argued that as only a roadside breathalyser was carried out, there isnt sufficient 
evidence to confirm that he was drink driving. But the evidential testing required for 
prosecution is a higher bar than that for Mr Ms insurance policy. So while Mr M is right that, 
generally speaking, the roadside breathalyser test will usually be followed up with either a 
blood test, or a further breathalyser test at either the hospital or police station, this will 
usually be in order for the police to secure a prosecution. But I dont need to see that Mr M 
was prosecuted for drink driving in order to conclude that Watford Insurance acted fairly. 
Rather, I need to be persuaded that the actions Watford Insurance took were fair and 
reasonable in line with what the terms of the policy say. And I think, on balance, they were. 
I say that because, in cases where there has been secondary testing, we might place more 
weight on that evidentiary testing in the same way that the police do. However, equally, 
where there has been a significant delay in secondary testing being carried out, we are less 
likely to rely on that information as being accurate, and might place more weight on the 
roadside breathalyser that was taken around the time of the alleged incident. Equally, where 
there has been no further testing, the roadside breathalyser results are usually the most 
persuasive evidence we will have. 
The arresting officer in this case has explained that custody would not accept Mr M until he 
had been medically cleared at the hospital, as he was presenting signs of being unwell. And 
he has said that following the hospital visit, Mr M was discharged from hospital and taken 
back to the police station. But as a significant amount of time had passed by this point, of 
around 8 hours, that no secondary testing was completed, as the results by this point would 
be inaccurate. So, based on this, I dont think it was unreasonable for Watford Insurance to 
base their findings on the results of the roadside breathalyser. 
While the investigator had more recently upheld Mr Ms complaint, this was on the basis that 
he understood that Mr M had subsequently provided a negative sample at a later date, but it 
now transpires that no further tests took place. 
In this case, Mr Ms breath specimen, appears to be 9micrograms over the 35microgram 
limit, which is not an unsubstantial amount. So, on balance, despite Mr M thinking that the 
alcohol was not the dominant cause of the issue, Im not currently persuaded that it was 
unreasonable for Watford Insurance to decline Mr Ms claim and cancel his policy on the basis that he was driving with an alcohol level in excess of the legal limit, given that there 
was no further evidence to persuade them otherwise. So, given that Mr M has not kept to the 
terms of the agreement by driving whilst over the prescribed limit, I do not think it 
unreasonable for Watford Insurance to decline Mr Ms claim, cancel his policy, and pursue 
him for any funds due in relation the claim.
Watford Insurance accepted the findings. Mr M didnt however, and raised several 
arguments.
He said:
his ADHD medication couldve influenced the breathalyser result;
Vicks cream can also impact a breathalyser result;
the wet weather couldve been the cause of the accident;
he had a few sips of alcohol between the crash and the police arriving in the 20 
minutes gap in between;
there was no secondary testing because he was in a calm state;
the police report doesnt mention that his demeanour showed he was drunk; 
he was vomiting because of the panic, and not related to alcohol.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, and having taken into account the responses from both 
parties to my provisional decision, Ive reached the same outcome a I did in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
 
Mr Ms set out his position at length and Id like to thank him for taking the time to do so. But 
my findings will concentrate on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, while I have considered everything, I may not explicitly address each and 
every point Mr M has made. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
Mr M has first responded by setting out other factors that could impact a breathalyser result. 
While Im not commenting on whether or not such things could impact a breathalyser, Mr M 
had by his own admission, consumed alcohol prior to the RTA, and also in the 20 minutes 
following the RTA prior to the police arriving at the scene. So whether or not these other 
medications Mr M has referred to could impact a breathalyser, and this is not clear, on 
balance, I think it was more than likely the alcohol Mr M consumed both before and 
immediately after the accident that likely contributed to the failed breathalyser result. And, 
ultimately, I dont think it was unreasonable for Watford Insurance to rely on the breathalyser 
result as a means of deciding that on balance, Mr M was Driving with an alcohol level in 
excess of the legal limit.
Mr M has also argued on a few occasions that alcohol may not have been the primary cause 
of the accident and that there was wet weather at the time, and he thinks this was more 
likely to have caused the accident. 
But the policy doesnt require that it be confirmed that alcohol consumption was the primary 
cause of the accident; it purely states that the insurer will not provide cover for any loss or damage that arises while someone driving the insured vehicle, is doing so with an alcohol 
level in excess of the legal limit.
Mr M has also said that the vomiting at the scene, was due to nerves, not alcohol, and that 
there was no secondary testing carried out, because he was not presenting as drunk, and 
this demeanour did not show him to be. 
But again, my role here is not to determine whether or not Mr M appeared drunk, or to 
determine why there was no secondary testing. Im also not here to determine what caused 
Mr M to vomit at the scene, and whether or not this was as a result of nerves or alcohol. 
In this case, my key role, is to determine whether or not it was reasonable for 
Watford Insurance to decline Mr Ms claim and cancel his policy on the basis of him driving 
the insured vehicle while over the legal alcohol limit. And the most persuasive evidence I 
have to determine whether or not he was, is the police testimony regarding the breathalyser. 
This explained that Mr M was breathalysed following an RTA and it was recorded that Mr M 
had provided a sample of breath with an alcohol level of 44 micrograms per 100 millilitres of 
breath, above the legal limit of 35 micrograms of alcohol per 100 millilitres of breath.
So, in summary, while I appreciate Mr M feels strongly about this, Im not persuaded that 
Watford Insurances decision to decline Mr Ms claim, cancel his policy, and seek to recover 
funds from him, based on the evidence set out above was unreasonable. And therefore, I 
wont be departing from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman