DRN-2534354
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Home and Travel Limited (H&T) failed to pass on important information to 
his buildings insurer which he says resulted in it declining a claim.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 January 2021, an extract of which Ive 
included below.
Mr P took out a buildings insurance policy through H&T, an insurance broker. The policy 
was underwritten by a well-known insurer and the actions of this insurer are the subject of a 
separate complaint.
The policy was taken out in 2016 to insure a commercial property with several floors above 
it. Mr P completed an application for the policy, answering a number of questions to allow 
the insurer to assess the risk it was taking on.
In 2018, shortly before the policy was due to renew, H&T got in contact with Mr P to query 
the buildings sum insured as it thought this might be insufficient. Mr P said hed assess this 
and come back to let H&T know.
Shortly after, he got in contact with H&T and asked it to increase the sum insured. During 
this call, he mentioned some work at the property. The policy renewed and the certificate of 
insurance confirmed the increase in the buildings cover.
Some time later, there was a fire at the property and Mr P contacted his insurer to make a 
claim. A loss adjuster was appointed to assess the damage and following its report, the 
claim was declined. The insurer said renovations were being undertaken on the floors above 
the property and if it had known these were in course, it wouldnt have agreed to offer 
renewal of the policy. 
Mr P wasnt happy with this. He said he had let H&T know about the renovations when hed 
asked for the buildings cover to be increased and it should have advised the insurer. H&T 
didnt agree, saying Mr P had spoken about the renovations in the past tense so it had 
thought they were complete and therefore not relevant to the insurer. So, Mr P brought his 
complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the evidence and concluded H&T should have let the 
insurer know about the renovations. He said there were other insurers at the time which 
would have been willing to insure this risk and if H&T had done what it should have, it could 
have arranged an alternative policy for Mr P and his claim would likely have been paid. 
He said because it didnt and was therefore responsible for the declination, H&T should 
cover the cost of the claim once agreed by a loss adjuster which H&T would need to appoint 
and pay for. It would also need to take action to compensate Mr P for the impact of the policy 
being voided. 
H&T didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to make a decision
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point for this decision is what the policy required Mr P to do if he were to 
undertake renovation works. The policy schedule states:
Changes of circumstances
You must give immediate notice to [trading name of H&T] of any changes in circumstances 
that increase the possibility of loss.... Such circumstances includeif the property becomes 
empty or unoccupied or if you intend to carry out any form of renovation or building works to 
the property, need to be agreed by the insurer in writing
So, I think it was clear Mr P needed to obtain the insurers permission before starting any 
renovation works. So Ive thought about whether Mr P told the insurer or H&T
Did Mr P make clear the extent of the renovation work?
Mr P was under an obligation to make a fair presentation to the insurer to allow it to assess 
the risk it was accepting so I have looked at the evidence to consider whether he did this. 
Ive listened very carefully to the calls between Mr P and H&T in May 2018 when the renewal 
of the policy was discussed.
H&T proactively contacted Mr P shortly before the policy was due to renew as the 
underwriters were concerned the property might be underinsured. It asked Mr P if he wanted 
to increase the rebuild cost from its then current figure of £201,000. Mr P asked if he could 
get back to them.
In the follow up call later that month, Mr P let H&T know he wanted to increase the rebuild 
cost to £395,000. The conversation continued and Mr P mentioned briefly about the work on 
the property. H&T says this was spoken about in the past tense as if the work had already 
been completed; our investigator thought it was talked about in the present tense, as if it was 
ongoing. 
Ive listened to the call a number of times and, due to the quality of the recording, I can see 
how this could be interpreted either way by the listener. There was little emphasis placed on 
the works and it was only mentioned in passing by Mr P.
I say this as Mr P didnt give any indication of what works were being completed, the value of 
these works, or how long they had taken or were taking. So it seems to me Mr Ps intention 
within the call hadnt been to inform H&T of the ongoing works in line with the obligation Ive 
mentioned above, and instead was simply to increase the sum insured
Ive then gone on to consider the other evidence available. While Mr P told the insurers loss 
adjuster, he had undertaken more then £60,000 of work on the property by the time of the 
fire, he told our investigator he hadnt mentioned it to them because he considered the work 
to just be cosmetic improvements. On balance, it seems to me Mr P didnt consider the 
size or nature of the work warranted notification to the insurers. And from what Ive seen, this 
seems in keeping with his conversation with H&T. 
I think if Mr P had been clearer about the nature of these works to H&T, it would have had 
the opportunity to look for alternative policies that might have meant the claim for fire 
damage was paid. But that didnt happen, so I dont think H&T has done anything wrong in not letting the insurers know about the renovation works and the change in the nature of the 
risk as this simply hadnt been made clear to it. 
And it therefore follows Im satisfied it wasnt responsible for the declination of the claim and 
I wont be asking it to do anymore.
I invited the parties to submit any further comments or evidence for consideration. H&T 
responded but had nothing new to add; neither Mr P nor his representative responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, and in the absence of any new evidence, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision. I remain satisfied H&T wasnt responsible for the declination of 
the claim and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman