DRN-4235417
The complaint
Mr F complains about an account block applied by Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
In February 2023 Santander contacted Mr F to advise it needed to complete a Know Your 
Customer (KYC) review for compliance purposes. Santander says it needed up to date 
identification, evidence to show Mr F was in receipt of benefits, information about his 
finances as well as information about payments that had been received into his account from 
third parties. Santander first discussed the KYC review with Mr F on 21 February 2023 but 
the call was cut off which meant the review wasnt completed. 
Santander next spoke with Mr F on 17 March 2023. Mr F agreed to submit up to date 
identification and explained he was in receipt of Universal Credit as he was unemployed. Mr 
F advised that he didnt have a letter confirming entitlement to receive Universal Credit and 
asked to submit evidence from the benefits system instead. The agent also asked Mr F 
about the credits hed received from two different individuals but was advised this 
information was private. Mr F was given instructions on how to submit documentation 
required to complete the review. 
Mr F has explained that from this point he spent several hours over the course of around a 
week trying to contact Santanders KYC review team. Mr F says he experienced hold times 
of between three and four hours and was promised call backs that werent received. On 29 
March 2023 Mr F was referred to the complaints team. Mr F submitted his passport and 
information from the benefits system that showed he was in receipt of Universal Credit. An 
agent Mr F spoke with said they would try to get Mr Fs documents reviewed as a priority. 
Due to the KYC review being incomplete, on 29 March 2023 Santander applied a block 
which restricted access to Mr Fs account and meant he couldnt access funds. Mr F has 
explained he was advised the account block was due to take place on 30 March 2023 and 
only found out hed lost access to funds when he tried to use his bank card in a shop. 
Santanders systems notes show Mr Fs responses and account were reviewed again on 31 
March 2023. The reviewer advised that as Mr F hadnt answered the questions concerning 
the payments received from third parties the review couldnt be completed. 
Santander next spoke with Mr F on 3 April 2023. During the call, Mr F gave some further 
background concerning the credits hed received from third parties. Santander went on to 
remove the account blocks. 
Mr F complained and explained Santanders actions had led to him being without access to 
any funds for several days. Mr F added that meant he couldnt pay for essential items like 
food. Santander paid Mr F a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr F went on to refer his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Santanders settlement of £250 was a fair way to resolve Mr Fs complaint and didnt 
ask it to do anything else. 
Mr F asked to appeal and said Santander had blocked his account a day earlier than 
promised. Mr F also said hed attempted to contact Santander on several occasions before 
the account block was put in place and had experienced wait times of up to four hours when 
trying to speak with the KYC review team. Mr F explained hed called Santander on 29 
March 2023 and spoke with a complaints manager. Mr F submitted his identification letter 
and Universal Credit information and says he was promised the KYC review would be 
completed as a priority. But Mr Fs pointed out he was next contacted by Santander on 3 
April 2023 during which the agent agreed to remove the account block. 
Mr Fs explained that he doesnt feel the payment of £250 Santander offered fairly reflects 
the loss of banking services for six days and the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
As Mr F asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
Santanders told us the account block was correctly applied on 29 March 2023 as Mr F had 
failed to comply with the KYC review requests. I can see that Santander spoke with Mr F on 
17 March 2023. During the call, Santander explained Mr F needed to supply up to date 
identification, evidence to confirm he was entitled to receive Universal Credit and asked 
questions surrounding the payments received into his account. Instructions on how to 
provide the information were provided. But Mr F declined to answer questions about the 
credits being received and explained it was a private matter. And whilst I understand Mr F 
called back on several occasions to speak with Santander about the KYC review, I note the 
documents he needed to provide werent forwarded until 29 March 2023. And at that point, 
Mr F hadnt answered the questions about payments to his account.
On 31 March 2023 Mr Fs responses and evidence were reviewed again by the KYC team. It 
confirmed that Mr F still needed to provide answers to the questions concerning the 
payments being received into his account before the review could be completed and account 
blocks removed. It was only on 3 April 2023 that Santander spoke with Mr F again and he 
agreed to provide further information concerning the payments he had received from third 
parties. Once that information was provided, Santander agreed to remove the account 
blocks. Whilst I understand Mr Fs account was blocked for around six days, I think the 
decision to apply the restrictions was reasonable when the KYC review was incomplete. Had 
Mr F confirmed details about his credits, along with providing identification and Universal 
Credit documents, I think Santander wouldve been in a position to remove the account block 
sooner. 
I agree there were delays and service issues. Mr Fs told us about very long call wait times 
and difficulties speaking with the right person. Santanders confirmed there were long call 
wait times when Mr F was trying to get in touch. And there was some confusion over when 
the account block would be put in place, with Mr F being advised the block would be applied 
on 30 March 2023, not 29 March 2023. Mr Fs explained that the account block meant he didnt have access to funds for around six days. But, as Ive said above, I havent been 
persuaded Santander acted unfairly by restricting Mr Fs access to his account while the 
KYC review remained incomplete. With that said, Mr F let Santander know that he needed 
access to his account to pay for essential items and I agree it shouldve attempted to 
complete the review as a priority. Ive taken the delay into account when considering how to 
fairly resolve Mr Fs complaint. 
Santander paid Mr F a total of £250 to reflect the impact of the service provided and distress 
and inconvenience caused. Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but I think the existing settlement 
agreed by Santander is a fair way to resolve his complaint and recognises the service 
provided. Whilst I agree Santander couldve completed the KYC review quicker, I also think 
its fair to say the process required Mr F to answer questions about the activity on his 
account. It was only after Mr F agreed to respond to Santanders questions about the third 
party payments received into his account that it was able to remove the account block and 
complete the review. So whilst I agree Santander couldve done more to move the KYC 
review forward quicker, I havent been persuaded it was responsible for all the delays. 
Overall, Im satisfied £250 fairly reflects what happened and how the situation impacted Mr 
S. To put it another way, the settlement is very much in line with what I wouldve told 
Santander to pay had no offer been made. As Im satisfied Santander has already agreed a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything 
else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that Santander UK Plc has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman