DRN-3386057
The complaint
Mr A complained that he was given unsuitable advice by Neovision Wealth Management 
Limited trading as Harrison Charles Wealth Management (for ease Ill simply refer to 
HCWM) to switch his personal pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and 
invest his funds through a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM).
What happened
In 2016 HCWM completed a fact find document which recorded Mr As financial position and 
objectives. This said, amongst other things, that Mr A wanted:
advice on investments outside his pension
to maximise growth over the next five years
to improve performance and management as hed been dissatisfied with the service and 
returns from his current pension
a diversified pension using more than just one fund
flexibility in how he took future pension benefits (but had no interest in taking an annuity)
to keep life cover going.
On 15 November 2016 HCWM sent Mr A a suitability report outlining its recommendation. Of 
note, the report said:
Mr As primary objective was to review his personal pension to see if it was appropriate 
to switch the benefits  to provide greater
oflexibility and options
ofund/investment choices to meet his circumstances, and
ofund management and performance
Mr As attitude to risk was balanced
Mr A wanted improved management [of his pension/investments] and that active (rather 
than passive) management would be his preference even if it cost more than the existing 
scheme
if Mr A switched pensions there was no guarantee that his benefits would be any better 
than had he not switched
the cost of the new scheme was around £60 cheaper.
The advisor recommended that Mr A consider switching his existing pension to a SIPP. The 
appendix to the suitability report said the advisor had selected the Strand Balanced Portfolio 
as being suitable for Mr As attitude to risk, and went on to provide details of Strand and the 
investment strategy of the Balanced Portfolio.
Mr A switched his pension to the SIPP and the funds were invested with Strand.
About six months later Strand went into administration. Mr A says that throughout 2017, 
2018 and 2019 he was in contact with HCWM about when his pension funds would be 
returned to him. He was also in contact with the SIPP provider as he was wanted to switch 
the pension again. The SIPP provider told him:
his funds were invested in Newscape funds and not the Strand Balanced Portfolio
his funds had been invested with Newscape the whole time
the Newscape funds have an exit fee.
In December 2019 Mr A complained to HCWM about how his new pension had been set up. 
In essence, he was unhappy with the lack of communication about the pension following 
Strand going into administration, that his funds hadnt been invested in the Strand Balanced 
Portfolio, and that he hadnt been told about the exit fee.
In February 2020 Mr A switched his pension to a new provider.
HCWM looked into the matter but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it arranged 
the switch to the SIPP and for the funds to be invested in the Strand Balanced Portfolio. It 
said that any subsequent reinvestment by Strand was at Strands discretion. HCWM also felt 
Mr A hadnt suffered any loss as his investment had grown from around £108,000 to around 
£113,000 by the time he switched the pension again.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I felt the complaint should be upheld. 
The relevant parts of my provisional decision are detailed below, and form part of my final 
decision.
What happened
The arrangement HCWM recommended Mr A enter into is whats known as DFM. In 
essence, the consumer delegates authority to a portfolio manager, or discretionary 
investment manager, to make decisions on their behalf about what investments to make.
Mr A said he wasn't aware of this arrangement; he was under the impression his funds 
would be invested in the Strand Balanced Portfolio and that HCWM would manage the 
investment decisions and consult him before making any new ones. Irrespective of any 
information HCWM gave Mr A about the DFM arrangement, it didnt strike me as an 
unreasonable impression for Mr A to form given that HCWM was charging him an 
ongoing management charge.
HCWMs points
HCWM said it was common practice for advisors to recommend a SIPP with DFM, and if 
fund managers referred to clients before investment changes were made the system 
would break down. I accepted it wasnt practical for fund managers to refer to clients 
every time an investment change was made. However, the issue in dispute here was 
whether the recommendation for Mr A to invest with a DFM arrangement was suitable, 
and whether HCWM gave Mr A sufficient information so that he could make an informed 
choice.
HCWM said it was outside its control if Strand inappropriately invested Mr As funds  it 
felt that was a matter between Mr A and Strand and/or the SIPP provider. Its not 
necessarily the case that we wont hold HCWM responsible for decisions the SIPP 
provider or Strand made once Mr A had switched. This was because HCWM had 
responsibilities such as doing due diligence into the DFM and giving a clear mandate to 
the DFM about Mr As attitude to risk. In any event, HCWM was responsible for the 
recommendation it gave Mr A to switch the pension  including the recommendation to invest the funds with Strand. And in that regard, it had an overall responsibility to treat 
Mr A fairly. In the context of this complaint, I thought that meant it had to ensure:
oits recommendations were suitable for Mr A
oit carried out sufficient due diligence
oit provided Strand with a clear mandate as to Mr As risk attitude, and
oit provided Mr A with clear information to enable him to make an informed 
decision.
Although Strand and the SIPP provider were regulated and had their own responsibilities 
to Mr A (and they might separately have been responsible for some of Mr As losses  
for which he might have some sort of recourse by pursuing a complaint against either 
Strand or the SIPP provider), Mr A had complained about the recommendation he 
received from HCWM, and that was the complaint I was tasked with deciding.
HCWM reiterated that the initial recommended investment portfolio was suitable for 
Mr As risk profile, and there was nothing to indicate that Strand would go into 
administration. These points were either not in dispute or were accepted by our 
investigator.
Was the recommendation suitable?
HCWM had a duty to ensure that the DFM arrangement was suitable for Mr A, that the 
recommended DFM was appropriate, and to do its due diligence on Strand.
In respect of the DFM arrangement, although the illustrative comparison showed the new 
arrangement was around £60 a year cheaper once HCWMs additional ongoing charge 
was taken into account the new arrangement was more expensive overall. The cost of 
Mr As original pension was 1% annually. The cost of the new arrangement was the 
SIPP providers annual charges of £114 and 0.84%, plus HCWMs annual ongoing 
management charge of 1%. I suspected there was also the DFMs annual charge. This 
meant that even without the DFMs charges the cost of the new arrangement was almost 
double the cost of the existing one.
HCWM said all costs were fully disclosed to Mr A and that the advisor charge didnt need 
to be included in the direct comparison. It also said Mr A wasnt charged its ongoing 
management charge. I hadnt seen anything which showed what the DFMs charge was 
or that HCWM explained it to Mr A. And, irrespective of what charges needed to be 
included in any comparison, I thought the overall cost should have been one of the 
advisors considerations when making a recommendation  and should have been 
clearly explained to Mr A. Based on what Id seen, I couldnt conclude that it was.
I thought cost versus benefit was also an important consideration for the advisor, and 
something that should have been explained to Mr A. The size of Mr As pension fund 
was important because it was relatively modest which meant he was more likely to have 
benefited from a basic arrangement or one with access to a range of mixed asset funds 
which HCWM reviewed occasionally. This was because the cost of a DFM arrangement 
became disproportionately high.
Another consideration for the advisor in this respect was how much better off Mr A would 
have been by switching. It was clear the new arrangement gave him a far wider choice of 
funds to invest in. But Mr A wasnt given any information on how much the new pension 
would need to grow in order for it to outperform the original one. So it wasnt clear to me 
that this was considered.I didnt think it had been shown what benefit Mr A could have obtained from a DFM 
arrangement, over and above what he could have obtained by HCWM giving him 
ongoing advice on the underlying investments, for the extra costs he was incurring. The 
DFM arrangement added an unnecessary layer of complexity to the arrangement that, in 
my view, Mr A didnt need. He essentially wanted to diversify and improve the 
performance of his investments, and I didnt think he had the necessary experience and 
knowledge to understand the bespoke investment propositions a DFM arrangement 
would give to him. I couldnt see that a wider range of funds or a bespoke investment 
portfolio was necessary to meet Mr As objectives. There was no reason why he couldnt 
have invested in a more standard portfolio which could have been reviewed by HCWM 
during its ongoing service to make sure it was still in line with his attitude to risk and 
meet his requirements. I couldnt see that simpler and cheaper investment options 
without a DFM were explored.
Given the above, I didnt think a DFM arrangement was suitable for Mr A or in his best 
interests. And I didnt think it was made clear to Mr A that he was paying for a DFM 
arrangement that wasnt a necessity.
In addition, The Financial Services Authority issued guidance in July 2012 about the 
recommendation of DFMs (Assessing suitability: Replacement business and centralised 
investment propositions). And the Personal Finance Society built on this in February 
2015 with a good practice guide for advisors to help them develop their approach on due 
diligence into DFM firms. Both regulatory and industry guidance made it clear that 
advisors needed to do some due diligence on a DFM before recommending their 
services. Examples of the due diligence included research into the DFMs reputation and 
financial standing as well as the types of underlying assets the DFM would invest in and 
their approach to investing. The good practice guide said advisors needed to get under 
the bonnet of a DFMs marketing blurb and were required to question and challenge 
information that was provided to them.
I hadnt seen anything showing what due diligence HCWM did into Strand. So I couldnt 
conclude that it adhered to the guidance in this respect.
Did HCWM give Mr A sufficient clear information in order to make an informed choice?
I didnt think it was necessary to consider or comment on this issue as I felt the argument 
was largely redundant given my conclusion that the DFM arrangement was unsuitable 
and not in Mr As best interests.
Causation
HCWM argued that Mr As funds were placed in the Strand Balanced Portfolio as it had 
advised him to do and, therefore, that the SIPP provider or Strand were to blame if the 
funds were invested elsewhere. I hadnt seen anything to show that the funds were 
placed in the Strand Balanced Portfolio eg HCWMs instruction to the SIPP 
provider/Strand, or the mandate HCWM gave the SIPP provider/Strand in respect of 
Mr As attitude to risk. But Id seen an email from the SIPP provider to Mr A which said 
the funds had been invested with Newscape the whole time.
HCWM also argued that Mr A didnt suffer a loss by investing with Strand. I didnt think 
the fact that Mr A transferred more out of the pension in 2020 than he transferred into it 
in 2016 automatically meant that he didnt suffer a loss. Looking at the bare figures it 
could be argued that the investment grew by around £5,000 while it was invested with Strand. However, it might be the case that the investment would have grown by £10,000 
had Mr A not switched, or if he was invested in the Balanced Portfolio all along.
Another of HCWMs arguments was that Mr A should have chosen a plan more in line 
with his goals and he wasnt forced to take the advice he was given. HCWMs 
responsibility was to give Mr A suitable advice. And this argument, in my opinion, 
effectively deflected blame away from HCWM on to what Mr A should or shouldnt have 
done.
I did nevertheless need to consider what Mr A would most likely have done because in 
assessing what would be fair compensation my aim was to put him as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. I thought 
he would have made a different investment decision had he known the potential 
repercussions of investing with Strand. That was because if suitable advice had been 
given I thought Mr A would most likely have switched to a SIPP  because his objectives 
were to get flexibility, more options and a better choice of investment. But the underlying 
investments would not have been via a DFM arrangement.
Distress and inconvenience
I thought Mr A had suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience. For example, he 
had to chase various parties to get updates on his pension following Strand going into 
administration, and discovering that his pension funds were potentially at risk would have 
been particularly stressful.
It wasnt HCWMs fault that Strand went into administration. But it did go into 
administration, and were it not for HCWMs unsuitable advice Mr A wouldnt have been in 
the DFM arrangement so he wouldnt have had to deal with that fallout.
I felt £300 compensation was fair in this respect.
Responses to my provisional decision
While HCWM was formulating its response it offered to pay Mr A £4,617 in an effort to 
resolve the matter. This was calculated as £300 compensation as per my provisional 
decision; £2,317 for the exit fee on the Newscape funds; and £2,000 being equivalent to the 
cost of advice it offered to provide Mr A when the complaint initially arose.
Mr A rejected HCWMs offer as he wanted the matter settled as per my provisional decision.
HCWM initially made reference to where Mr As funds were invested and felt Id made a 
serious inaccurate comment in this respect. In summary, it didnt believe that hed invested 
with Newscape the whole time. HCWM also said it was checking the performance of the 
legacy funds. It later provider information it had gathered since my provisional decision. This 
consisted of the documents it had on Strand before the advice was given to Mr A, and 
information/documents it had received from the SIPP provider to the extent that.
HCWM also made various points (which I comment on below as necessary) in its formal 
response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think the information HWCM has provided in respect of the due diligence adds to its 
case. I say this because the essence of my provisional decision was:
that the recommendation for Mr A to enter into a DFM arrangement was unsuitable and 
not in his best interests; and
it wasnt made clear to Mr A that he was paying for a DFM arrangement that wasnt a 
necessity.
I also said, more as an additional comment, that I hadnt seen anything showing that HCWM 
had adhered to the guidance in respect of due diligence into Strand. So HCWM now 
providing information in respect of due diligence it and the SIPP provider carried out doesnt 
change my opinion that the recommendation was unsuitable/not in Mr As best interests; nor 
that it wasnt made clear to Mr A that the DFM arrangement wasnt a necessity.
I also dont think the information HWCM has now provided from the SIPP provider in respect 
of Mr As investment and transactions adds to its case. I say this because the SIPP provider 
simply said that Mr As funds were invested in Strand and were later moved  which was 
already known. And the transactions detail the money going into and out of the SIPP. No 
further clarity was given as to whether the funds were initially invested in the Balanced 
Portfolio and then moved to Newscape, or whether they were invested in Newscape all 
along.
While on this point, I disagree with HCWM that I made an inaccurate comment in respect of 
where Mr As funds were invested. I dont know where they were initially invested and I didnt 
reach a formal conclusion on this in my provisional decision. I simply said that I hadnt seen 
anything to show that the funds were placed in the Strand Balanced Portfolio; and Id seen 
an email from the SIPP provider to Mr A which said the funds had been invested with 
Newscape the whole time. Both of these statements were, and remain, accurate.
But similar to the due diligence issue, I think this is a bit of a red herring in any event 
because even if HCWM can show that the funds were correctly placed into the Balanced 
Portfolio and were then moved into Newscape via the DFM arrangement, it remains my view 
that the DFM arrangement was unsuitable for Mr A and not his best interests.
I understand that HCWM is trying to show that it isnt 100% to blame for any losses Mr A 
might have suffered, which in turn might lead me to conclude that it isnt liable for all of the 
compensation. I discussed in my provisional decision that both Strand and the SIPP provider 
were regulated and might separately have been responsible for some of Mr As losses. I 
remain of the view this doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the complaint. This is 
because while Strand was responsible for managing Mr As pension fund following the 
transfer, this arrangement only existed by virtue of HCWMs recommendation. It also 
remains that Mr A hasnt complained to us about Strand or the SIPP provider  so its not for 
me to judge any liability they might have. Anything that Strand might have done wrong 
doesnt make it reasonable in the circumstances of this case for HCWM to avoid 
compensating Mr A for losses they may have gone on to cause. So I think holding HCWM 
wholly responsible for any losses Mr A suffered represents fair compensation in this case.
HCWM said Mr A cant make a claim for poor performance [of the investment] and that he 
didnt actually make a loss. Mr A isnt complaining about poor performance  the complaint 
concerns the overall advice he was given. HCWMs comment about Mr A not suffering any 
loss is a repeat of a previous argument it made, which I addressed in my provisional 
decision.HCWM also made reference to the fact that Strands administration couldnt have been 
foreseen at the time of the advice; and that had it not gone into administration I might have 
reached a different conclusion as Mr A wouldnt have suffered a loss. I can only decide a 
case base on what did happen, not what might have happened had the circumstances been 
different. I accept HCWM couldnt have known about or predicted Strands administration. 
However, whether Strand entered administration or not it remains that the DFM arrangement 
was unsuitable for Mr A. So my conclusion on that would have been the same regardless. 
The losses Mr A suffered might have been different, but the core issue about the suitability 
of the recommendation remains.
On the issue of losses, HCWM said that following the transfer away from the SIPP provider 
Mr A is likely to have gained by being in cash as the markets fell in the aftermath of the 
Covid pandemic. I dont think any gains or losses Mr A had after he switched his pension to 
the new provider have any relevance here. Thats because the initial advice was still 
unsuitable.
HCWM also referred to it wanting to check the performance of the legacy funds. I dont think 
any information will change my mind in respect of the unsuitability of the DFM arrangement 
or Mr A making a different investment decision (because the reasons Ive given for my 
conclusions in this respect arent dependent on the performance of the legacy funds). The 
performance of Mr As original pension is also irrelevant to the compensation payable (see 
below).
In closing, HCWM remains of the view that the advisor acted in accordance with the 
regulators guidelines and that it hasnt been established that bad/unsuitable/poor advice 
was given. Im mindful of HCWMs opinion however I disagree with it. Ive explained why Ive 
concluded that HCWM treated Mr A unfairly with the recommendation it made. My 
conclusions remain the same as outlined in my provisional decision, for the reasons outlined 
above.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr A fairly HCWM should:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, HCWM should also compensate Mr A for lost investment growth on this 
loss using the benchmark below, from when he switched in February 2020 to the date of 
the settlement calculation.
If there is a loss, HCWM should pay into Mr A's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. HCWMs payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. HCWM shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If HCWM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance 
should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected 
retirement age.For example, if Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, 
the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If HCWM considers its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)
SIPP portfolio 
switched from 
the original 
pension in 
November 2016Now switched 
to new providerFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors Total 
Return IndexDate of switch 
inDate of switch 
out to new 
provider
The actual value is the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. The fair 
value is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although its called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr As 
circumstances and risk attitude.
I dont think a comparison with how Mr As original pension would have performed is 
appropriate because I dont think Mr A would have remained with the original pension if 
suitable advice had been given.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is working with the administrators 
of a number of collapsed DFMs to return to investors the remaining value of their 
investments. Its not clear to me whether Mr A has, or will have, a valid claim to the FSCS for 
any losses caused by Strand. However, its becoming common for the FSCS to decline to 
make any award until weve completed our work on the advisor complaint. In any event, 
what the FSCS might do isnt relevant to whether or not I think its fair and reasonable to 
require HCWM to pay full compensation. However, there is an issue over Mr A potentially 
getting double recovery of the same losses.
My understanding is that if the FSCS was to make an award to Mr A it would seek to reclaim 
any compensation hed received from third parties that were related to that claim. So I dont 
think Mr A would benefit from double recovery. However I think its reasonable that if he did 
receive compensation from the FSCS, in addition to any compensation paid by HCWM, and 
the FSCS didnt seek to recover other compensation hed been paid, Mr A should provide an undertaking to repay HCWM any compensation that hes received (in combination from both) 
over and above his total losses as calculated by the method Ive outlined.
HCWM should also pay Mr A £300 compensation for the stress and anxiety caused him.
The compensation amounts must be paid to Mr A within 30 days of the date HCWM receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 30 days, that it takes HCWM to pay Mr A.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Neovision Wealth Management Limited trading as Harrison 
Charles Wealth Management to settle this matter as outlined under the Putting things right 
heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman