DRN-3027524
The complaint
Mr B complains about a loan provided to him by Oakbrook Finance limited, (trading as 
Likely Loans) which he says was unaffordable.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr B with a loan of £3000 in May 2017. The loan was to be repaid 
over 36 monthly repayments of £165.51. The loan has been repaid.
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be not upheld. He said 
that in his opinion Likely Loans didnt carry out proportionate checks and should have gone 
further with finding out if Mr B could afford the loan. But he concluded that he couldnt safely 
conclude the loan was unaffordable for Mr B. He said this was because he didnt have the 
information to hand to see what more likely than not Likely Loans would have seen if it had 
carried out proportionate checks. So, he didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B, through his representatives, did not agree with the investigators view. He has asked 
for his complaint to be looked at again.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has come to me, an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Likely Loans lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC).
Likely Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of Mr Bs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This 
means that Likely Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Mr B wouldnt make the 
repayments under the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr B of not being able to make 
these repayments. In particular, Likely Loans had to consider Mr Bs ability to make 
repayments under the agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without Mr 
B having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other repayment he 
had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a 
significant adverse effect on his financial situation.
The rules also said that  unless it was so obvious that the consumer could make the 
repayments that further checks were disproportionate  Likely Loans needed to take 
reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of Mr Bs 
current income. It also had to take reasonable steps to determine the amount, or make a 
reasonable estimate of, Mr Bs current non-discretionary expenditure. Whilst it is down to 
the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length 
of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to 
the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, 
Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Bs case, Ive considered 
the following questions:
- Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Bs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have shown?
- Did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
As set out above, Likely Loans gathered some information from Mr B about his 
income and expenses before it agreed to lend. It says the process it used at the 
time to assess Mr Bs loan application involved it extracting data from his credit 
file and scoring his application, to see whether he could afford the loan 
repayments.
Ive carefully thought about what Likely Loans has said about the checks it carried out on 
Mr Bs application. But Im not satisfied that these checks went far enough. I say that 
because the loan was over a term of 36 months and Likely Loans needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that relatively long period of time for Mr B.
I consider Likely Loans checks should have included a full review of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances, including further verification of his income and expenditure so it could 
ensure that the loan repayments were affordable. 
I need to think about what Likely Loans would have seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. Our investigator has recently asked Mr B to provide his bank statements from 
around the time he applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that this is the check that 
Likely Loans should have done. But I think looking at his bank statements over a period 
such as three months would give me the best picture of what the lender should have seen.
Mr B has not been able to provide our service with bank statements from before and around 
when he took out the loan though, other than what was provided to Likely Loans at the time. 
So, I havent been able to see what Likely Loans would have most likely seen if it had carried 
out further checks. So, because of this, I am unable to safely conclude that Mr B was given a 
loan that was unaffordable for him. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman