DRN-3032916
The complaint
Miss T has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds actions in 
connection with a claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents. 
What happened
Miss T was burgled. She rang Advantage and told it her spare car key had been stolen in the 
burglary. Advantage said she might be able to claim on her policy but advised her to contact 
the manufacturer to see if it could sort the matter out. It was a Saturday and the 
manufacturer told her to ring back on Monday. But her car was stolen soon after.
Miss T claimed for the theft of her car. She was unhappy with the progress of the claim and 
complained. Advantage settled the claim but Miss T remained unhappy and brought her 
complaint to us.
After we asked Advantage for its file it acknowledged that it hadn't got everything right and 
offered Miss T £250 compensation for the impact of that. Miss T didn't think that went far 
enough. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didn't think that Advantage 
had dealt with Miss T fairly. In particular he said it hadn't handled the call when Miss T told it 
about the stolen key appropriately, so he said it should pay her an additional £150 
compensation.
Advantage didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of the complaint so its been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Miss T has made a number of detailed points. Advantage has 
acknowledge it didn't get everything right and has made an offer to address the impact of 
those mistakes. So while I've considered everything Miss Ts said and everything on file 
carefully, I don't intend to address each and every point raised. Instead I will focus on what I 
see as being the key outstanding issues following our investigators assessment of the 
complaint.
Its clear from reading the file that Miss T, understandably, found the burglary, car theft and 
claim process immensely stressful and upsetting. But, generally, we find it fair for insurers 
like Advantage to take reasonable steps to investigate claims to ensure that they are valid 
and meet the policy terms. And that's what Advantage did in this case. Miss Ts policy does 
require her to take action to protect her car from damage or loss. So I don't think there was 
anything wrong with Advantage wanting to make sure shed done that before it settled her 
claim. Although its apparent Miss T wasn't happy with the speed of that progress. But 
eventually Advantage did settle the claim. 
That said Advantage identified that it could have done more to make Miss Ts claim journey 
smoother. For example, amongst other things, it's said that it could have recognised her 
vulnerability, done more to support her and checked to see if it could access CCTV footage 
sooner which added to the delay in the claim progressing. And to address the impact of the 
gaps in its handling it offered Miss T £250 compensation. I think that was a reasonable 
response to the areas it identified where it could have handled things better.
But Miss T was particularly upset that, when she rang Advantage to tell it her spare car key 
had been stolen it didn't give her proper advice. In contrast Advantage thinks it handled the 
call reasonably. Miss Ts policy says that, if her keys are stolen and her address was known 
to the thief, then the policy would cover the costs of replacement locks up to a maximum of 
£500. So given the burglar had taken the key from Miss Ts house and he knew her address, 
I think this is something her policy would most likely cover. 
However, when Miss T rang Advantage for help it initially told her she didn't have key 
cover. It did tell her that there may be a chance she could claim from her policy, which 
would require the car to go to its approved repairer and Miss T paying her excess. Miss T 
asked what do you do about changing keys and Advantage told her that it was likely that a 
chip could be replaced. Advantages call handler said that, if he was in that position, he 
would give [the cars manufacturer or finance provider] a call about replacing the chip. But 
he said that Miss T could ring back if she wanted to make a claim.
I understand that Advantage operates on whats known as a non-advised basis which 
means it doesn't give its policyholders recommendations about what they should do. But, in 
order to deal with Miss T fairly it does need to give her information that is clear, fair and not 
misleading. And I don't think that happened in this case. Advantages initial point was that 
Miss T didn't have key cover. That was accurate as she didn't have an extra product 
providing cover for stolen keys which are available to some consumers. But she didn't need 
key cover in order to make a claim on her policy, as I've said above, I think her policy most 
likely covered that without requiring extra cover. So I think that Advantages assessment of 
the claim position, and as a result what it told Miss T she was entitled to under the policy, 
was misleading in the circumstances.
Advantage did tell Miss T she could make a claim if she wished to. But suggested  some 
would say advised  her to contact the manufacturer in the first instance. That wasn't a 
wholly unreasonable suggestion. But I think Advantage should have been aware there was a 
possibility that the burglar or an accomplice might imminently take Miss Ts car using the 
stolen key. So I think it should have brought this to her attention when she was deciding 
what she wished to do and in what order. Further, I think it should also have let Miss T know 
that - as her policy required her to protect her car from danger or loss - if she didn't take 
any action straightaway that could affect the outcome or progress of any later claim. But it 
didn't do those things; so I don't think it did set out Miss Ts options clearly. 
I know Miss T thinks that if Advantage had answered her questions differently her car 
wouldn't have been stolen and she wouldn't have had the ensuing stress. But I'm not 
persuaded thats the case. First, while Advantage could have been clearer it did tell Miss T 
that there was a chance she could claim on her policy. So that was an option open to her. 
And in order to do so Miss Ts car would have had to be taken to one of Advantages 
approved repairers. But it was the weekend and there's no guarantee that one of those 
approved repairers could have collected and stored her car before it was stolen. But I do 
understand that the resultant claim undoubtedly caused Miss T distress and inconvenience 
which Miss T clearly believes might have been avoided. So to address this, I think 
Advantage should pay her a further £150 compensation on top of the £250 it offered previously. I'm also aware that Miss T went to the trouble of buying a steering lock shortly 
before the cars theft and I think Advantage should reimburse her for that cost.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Miss T £400 compensation in total.
Reimburse her for the steering lock she bought.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman