DRN-3373616
The complaint
Ms B and Mr B are unhappy with the service they received from U K Insurance Limited when 
they wanted to claim on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In February 2020 Ms B and Mr B booked a holiday through a provider Ill refer to as L. Their 
flights were with a provider Ill refer to as R. They were due to travel in August 2020 but 
were unable to do so due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr B spoke with UKI about the situation several times as he was concerned about how best 
to approach their claim given that there was an outstanding balance for his holiday. Based 
on the information UKI gave Mr B they cancelled their holiday and didnt make payment of 
the balance. When Mr B made a claim, he was told by UKI he needed to get refunds from 
L and R and approach a scheme which deals with complaints about travel providers. 
Because hed cancelled the holiday this was difficult. 
Mr B made a complaint because he says UKIs guidance to cancel caused him a lot of stress 
and he spent hours trying to sort out the refunds and the claim, which were complicated 
because hed cancelled on UKIs advice. UKI accepted that they gave Mr B misleading 
information. They paid Ms B and Mr B £200 to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Ultimately, Mr B was able to recover the cost of his holiday from L and R. Unhappy, 
Ms B and Mr B complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the 
compensation offered fairly reflected the distress and inconvenience caused. Ms B and Mr B 
feel that the £200 compensation isnt enough  they think £1000 would be fairer. So, they 
asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions say that the policy only covers irrecoverable losses. That 
means Mr B would have always needed to take reasonable steps to recover his financial 
losses from L and R before making a successful claim. Thats a common term which 
appears in lots of travel insurance policies. So, bearing in mind the policy terms and 
conditions, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to expect Mr B to try and recover his 
losses from L and R first.  
But its not in dispute that UKI gave Mr B misleading information when he spoke to them 
about cancelling the holiday. And its also not disputed that this caused Mr B distress and 
inconvenience. So, the key issue for me to decide is whether the compensation UKI has paid 
ought to be increased from £200 to a higher figure. 
I accept that Mr B spent many hours dealing with UKI, L and R, including making calls and 
talking to them online as he was trying to recover his financial losses from them as part of 
the claims process. He also had difficulties because he had to pursue a chargeback via his 
bank. 
Its clear this was upsetting and frustrating for Mr B, particularly when hed tried to get 
guidance from UKI about what to do and how best to approach the situation. But I think £200 
compensation is fair. 
I say that because I think it fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience Mr B has told us 
that he experienced, which was caused by UKIs error when it gave Mr B misleading 
information. However, I think a significant amount of the distress and inconvenience was 
caused by L and R. For example, Mr B found it difficult to make contact with L and they also 
pursued him for payment of the balance. But thats not something I can hold UKI entirely 
responsible for as, whilst they did tell give Mr B misleading information about cancelling his 
holiday, they arent responsible for the customer service he received from other businesses. 
I cant fairly conclude that UKI should pay further compensation in the circumstances of this 
case.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman