DRN-2214935
The complaint
Miss F complains about delays to a claim she made on her mobile phone insurance policy 
she holds with Assurant General Insurance Limited.
What happened
Miss F holds a mobile phone insurance policy with Assurant through her bank. Her phone 
became damaged and so she made a claim for it to be repaired or replaced.
Miss F paid the £50 excess on the policy and sent her phone to Assurant. Assurant 
accepted the claim and told Miss F itd aim to either repair or replace her phone within three 
days.
13 days later Miss F contacted Assurant as shed heard nothing more about her claim. 
Assurant said due to an error it hadnt processed the repair. It offered Miss F £50 
compensation for the delay, which she accepted at the time.
After assessing Miss Fs phone, Assurant said it was beyond repair and so offered a cash 
settlement based on what Miss F purchased her phone for. Miss F wasnt happy with this. 
She pointed out that she couldnt get a replacement phone for the amount Assurant had 
offered her as it had increased in value. Assurant reconsidered and subsequently increased 
its offer to settle the claim. Miss F accepted this offer. Assurant said it would raise payment 
and Miss F could expect to receive it in her bank account within five working days.
Eight days later Miss F contacted Assurant again to let it know shed not received any 
payment. Assurant looked into the issue and found the payment hadnt been passed to the 
correct department in error. It offered Miss F a further £75 compensation for the delay. It 
raised the payment and Miss F received it the following day.
Miss F complained to Assurant about how her claim was handled. She said during the time 
her phone was broken she had to borrow one from her friend which put a strain on their 
relationship. She thought Assurant should pay her £10 per day for each day she was without 
her phone as this is what shed seen OFCOM had recommended.
Assurant acknowledged her complaint, but felt its offer of £125 compensation was fair.
Miss F brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She 
said she thought the £125 offered by Assurant for the delays was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to her. Ill explain the reasoning for my decision below.
Miss Fs policy covers her for damage to her phone. Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
of the policy and it doesnt guarantee repair or replacement in any set period of time. 
Nevertheless, when Assurant accepted her claim it let her know itd aim to repair or replace 
her phone within three days. So its reasonable Miss F expected her claim to be settled in 
one way or another in around that time.
This didnt happen, and this didnt happen due to two errors caused by Assurant. This has 
clearly inconvenienced Miss F where it neednt have. Shes had to wait longer than 
necessary without her phone. Shes had to call to chase her claim twice. And each time she 
was given reasonable expectations which were then not followed through.
Miss F has also said this caused strain on her relationship with a friend. And shed like to be 
compensated £10 for each day she was without her phone.
I understand why Miss F wants an increased amount of compensation from Assurant. But in 
this case Im not recommending it increase its offer. Ultimately, Miss F was able to have use 
of another phone from her friend, so she wasnt without phone service for all this time. And 
unfortunate as it is, I dont hold Assurant responsible for the strain on Miss Fs relationship 
with her friend.
But, as outlined above, Assurants errors have clearly caused Miss F both distress and 
inconvenience. However, Im satisfied Assurants offer of £125 is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint against Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman