DRN-4439077
Complaint
Mrs M complains that Moneybarn No.1 Ltd (Moneybarn) unfairly entered into a conditional-
sale agreement with her. Shes said the agreement was unaffordable and so she shouldnt 
have been accepted for it. 
Background
In July 2018, Moneybarn provided Mrs M with finance for a used car. The cash price of the 
vehicle was £6,995.00. Mrs M paid a deposit of £400 and entered into a 60-month 
conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for the remaining £6,595.00 The loan had 
interest, fees and total charges of £9,404.03 and the total amount to be repaid of £15,999.03 
(excluding Mrs Ms deposit) was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £271.17. 
Mrs Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Moneybarn had done anything wrong or treated Mrs M unfairly. So she didnt recommend 
that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with our investigator and the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mrs Ms complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Moneybarn needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Moneybarn needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mrs M could make her payments in a sustainable manner before agreeing to lend to 
her. And if the checks Moneybarn carried out werent sufficient, I then need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Moneybarn says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and expenditure 
assessment on Mrs M. During this assessment, Mrs M provided details of her monthly 
income. Moneybarn says it also carried out credit searches on Mrs M which showed some 
adverse information in the form of defaults and a County Court Judgment (CCJ) recorded 
against her. The last of Mrs Ms defaults was recorded against her more than a year prior 
and the CCJ was recorded approaching six years prior.
Furthermore, in Moneybarns view, when the amount Mrs M already owed plus a reasonable 
amount for Mrs Ms living expenses was deducted from her monthly income the monthly 
payments were still affordable. On the other hand, Mrs M says she was already struggling at 
the time, was already in debt and that these payments were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mrs M and Moneybarn have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that I dont think that the checks Moneybarn carried out did go 
far enough. In my view, bearing in mind it will have seen defaults and an albeit historic 
county court judgement (CCJ) registered against Mrs M as a result of its credit search. Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn needed to take further steps to verify Mrs Ms actual living costs, 
rather than assume Mrs Ms living expenses in order for its checks to have been 
proportionate. 
As Moneybarn didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
Moneybarn is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information from        
Mrs M. Given the circumstances here, I would have expected Moneybarn to have had a 
reasonable understanding about Mrs Ms regular living expenses as well as her income and 
existing credit commitments. 
Ive considered the information Mrs M has provided us with  including her bank statements. 
And having done so, this information does appear to show that when Mrs Ms committed 
regular living expenses, existing credit commitments and a reasonable amount for her 
defaulted accounts and CCJs are deducted from the income going into her account at the 
time, she did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due 
under this agreement. 
It might also help to explain that what Im required to think about here in order to determine 
whether Moneybarn acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs M, is whether Mrs M had 
sufficient disposable income to enable her to make the monthly payments to this agreement. 
And having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that 
there would have been sufficient funds left over, which went towards what would be 
considered to discretionary spending, in Mrs Ms account for the monthly payments to be 
made in a sustainable manner. 
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that Moneybarns 
checks before entering into this conditional-sale agreement with Mrs M did go far enough, 
Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have prevented 
Moneybarn from providing these funds, or entering into this agreement with her. 
Overall Im therefore satisfied that Moneybarn didnt act unfairly towards Mrs M when it lent 
to her and Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mrs M. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman