DRN-2223458
The complaint
Mr T and Mr T1 complain as Trustees (the trustees) of a discretionary trust (the trust) that 
the redress Clydesdale Banks Plc t/a Yorkshire Bank offered for advice it has found was 
unsuitable doesnt put the trust in the position it would be in but for the unsuitable advice.
What happened
In 2012 the trust was advised to invest in various investments by Yorkshire Bank with the 
money invested put into four funds; the Prudential Growth fund; the Prudential Balanced 
Portfolio: the Neptune Balanced fund: and the Milton Special Situations Portfolio.
On 21 January 2019 Yorkshire Bank wrote to the trust as a result of it undertaking a 
proactive customer fairness review which found that it had provided unsuitable advice in 
2012 because the advice didnt properly take into consideration the trustees attitude to 
investment risk. It said that the investment into the Prudential Growth fund was suitable but 
that the Prudential Balanced Portfolio, the Neptune fund and the Milton fund were too high 
risk. 
It offered redress of £8,353 based on comparing the recommended investments with a 
benchmark  50% average rate for a one-year fixed rate bond and 50% FTSE UK Private 
Investors Total Return Index. Yorkshire Bank calculated the redress on the basis it didnt 
have any further responsibility for the investments after the agency was transferred to 
another adviser  in August 2013.
The trustees didnt agree with the offer of redress made by Yorkshire Bank. They said that 
this didnt put the trust back in the position it wouldve been in if unsuitable advice hadnt 
been given. They said that Milton and Neptune funds had underperformed the sector 
average to a significant degree. They said that the benchmark used wasnt the most 
appropriate and that their adviser thought the UT Mixed Investment 20-60% Shares Retail 
benchmark more closely mirrored an investor with a moderate attitude to risk.
The trustees also said that Yorkshire Bank was wrong to limit the calculation of any loss to 
when the agency was transferred to another adviser. The trustees said that the 
recommended investments were expensive long-term investments which had high front-end 
costs and early cash-in charges. So, it wasnt as simple as just getting out of the investments 
as soon as they left Clydesdale. The trustees also said that costs had been incurred as a 
result of the unsuitable advice.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, in which, in summary, I made the following 
findings:
The issue in this complaint is the calculation of redress resulting from Yorkshire 
Banks proactive review.
The basis of Yorkshire Bank finding it had done something wrong was that three of 
the four recommended investments were too risky and that is why a cautious risk 
benchmark has been used to calculate redress.
The trustees argue a moderate risk benchmark should be used but if that is an 
appropriate benchmark it would mean that the original advice wasnt unsuitable as 
the recommended investments were suitable for moderate risk investors.
If the funds werent too risky then the whole basis of the original offer is wrong and 
arguably the estate has made no loss.
Yorkshire Bank and the new adviser didnt reach the same conclusion as the new 
adviser didnt think the funds were too risky in themselves but that they had invested 
too much in the same funds.
The benchmark used by Yorkshire Bank is an appropriate benchmark based on the 
reasons it found the advice was unsuitable.
The new adviser took on responsibility for advising them on their investments and it 
is appropriate for redress to be calculated up to that date.
The new adviser said there were no exit penalties if they switched funds internally, so 
they couldve fully switched out of the Neptune Fund and Milton in 2013 if they 
wanted to.
The new adviser didnt think the funds themselves were unsuitable, just that they had 
invested too much in the funds which is why he advised cashing in only part of these 
investments.
The trustees went to a new adviser because they werent happy with the 
performance not because the investments were unsuitable. I was not persuaded that 
Yorkshire Bank should be asked to pay anything towards the new adviser fees.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Yorkshire Bank said it agreed with my 
findings and had nothing further to add. The trustees didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. In summary they made the following points:
They accept that Yorkshire Bank used an appropriate benchmark in its calculations.
They are not clear on if the ombudsman agrees with Yorkshire Bank that where the 
new adviser receives the trail commission it is the responsibility of the new adviser to 
provide advice.
It isnt clear if past decisions of the ombudsman service materially influenced the 
decision in this case and they can only trust that this case has been reviewed on its 
own merits.
They would point out that the sums invested were considerable at around £500,000 
so higher than average, and redress was only calculated over a short period.
If the investments had remained in their portfolio until 2019 compensation wouldve 
been calculated to that point and Yorkshire Bank can count itself lucky it lost the 
account when it did.
They accept that Yorkshire Bank and the new adviser were concerned with different 
aspects of risk.
They question whether their actions and the actions of the new adviser post August 
2013 are relevant to the complaint.
Those involved in the complaint knew from day one that the Trustees had instructed 
a new adviser and the information in the suitability report from the new adviser 
provided no new information.
In the final two paragraphs of the provisional decision the new adviser is quoted as 
saying that there are no exit penalties and no initial charges, and the ombudsman 
states they couldve switched out of the Neptune and Milton funds without penalty. 
But the new adviser has confirmed this related to product charges not the cost of 
advice.
There were also CREST and External Dealing charges.
They ended the relationship with Yorkshire bank for several reasons which included:
oPoor implementation of the planning report.oPoor after-sales service
oThey realised that the recommended investments werent suitable for several 
reasons such as their complexity and the time and effort it would take them to 
administer them.
oThey held Yorkshire Bank responsible for its choice of product provider who 
were difficult to contact and inefficient, with statements following weeks after 
the period end. They were also unprepared or unable to sell down 
automatically to top-up the cash account but were quick to charge interest on 
an overdrawn account.
Performance of the bond wasnt a major issue in October 2013, and they were aware 
of the need to invest long-term. Performance did become an issue in subsequent 
years and was a factor in subsequent decisions.
In summary they believe the reasons the ombudsman has set out for not asking 
Yorkshire Bank to pay towards the new adviser fees are incorrect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
So that it is clear, I have not considered any other decision our service has made in making 
my findings in this complaint.
I note there is now no issue about the benchmark that Yorkshire Bank used so I will make no 
further comment on that.
The Trustees have referred to what Yorkshire Bank said in response to the investigators 
initial opinion  namely that it ceased to be the servicing agent in August 2013 when the 
trustees went to a new adviser who received the trail commission and became responsible 
for advising on the investments.
I didnt specifically comment on this as I didnt think it was necessary given it was clear that 
the new adviser had taken on responsibility for advising on the investments as shown by the 
suitability report he sent to them. In the circumstances it is appropriate that redress be 
limited to when the Trustees moved to the new adviser. 
If the funds were unsuitable then it was for the new adviser to advise them about this once 
he became responsible for advising them about the funds in 2013. If they remained in 
unsuitable funds because they werent advised to get out of them then this isnt something 
Yorkshire Bank can be held responsible for.
The amount invested has no bearing on the period over which redress should be calculated. 
I acknowledge that if the Trust had remained with Yorkshire Bank  invested in the same 
investments - and it had carried out its review in 2019 then redress wouldve been calculated 
up to that date. But I am considering what did happen, not what couldve happened, and I 
cant award redress based on circumstances that didnt arise.
The suitability report established that the new adviser did take on responsibility for advising 
the Trust about the investments regardless of any trail commission received. It also shows 
that the new adviser didnt advise them that the funds of themselves were unsuitable, 
contrary to the outcome of Yorkshire Banks review. I acknowledge that the reference in the new advisers suitability report to no exit penalties 
didnt refer to the cost of advice from the new adviser. I also acknowledge that there were 
CREST and dealing charges. But these charges, werent incurred in relation to advice that 
the funds the Trust was invested in were too risky in themselves. They were incurred based 
on the advice from the new adviser that they should move from one of the existing bonds to 
increase diversification - which advice was based on the trustees concerns that all their 
eggs were in one basket. 
I note what the trustees have said about the reasons they moved from Yorkshire Bank. And 
one of the reasons, as set out in their letter to Yorkshire Bank of 1 May 2019, was the 
performance of the funds. I dont think that Yorkshire Bank should pay the adviser charges 
because the trustees had already decided to get further advice, and this was unrelated to the 
reason Yorkshire Bank later decided it had provided unsuitable advice. So, the advice fees 
werent as a result of the funds being unsuitable and I think the advice fee wouldve been 
incurred in 2013 regardless of this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman