DRN-2900243
The complaint
Mr G complains that Starling Bank Limited treated him unfairly when he applied for an 
account with it. 
 
What happened
 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 June 2021. Ive set this out below. 
These were my provisional conclusions, subject to any further comment or evidence I 
received from either party. I said:
In coming to my provisional decision, Ive considered whether Starling treated Mr G fairly 
taking into account the relevant law, regulations and guidance. Ive considered in particular 
the guidance from CIFAS. 
Starling is entitled to undertake checks with credit reference agencies and fraud detection 
databases for both new and existing customers. Thats what it did here because it says the 
information it found meant it couldnt offer Mr G an account  he didnt meet its risk appetite. 
Starling specifically mentioned identity and fraud, suggesting it saw something adverse 
returned on fraud database checks. But based on what Ive seen, I dont think Starling 
treated Mr G fairly. Ill explain why. 
CIFAS publishes guidance to its members. Its not clear if Starling is a member but 
irrespective of this, I think the guidance represents good industry practice. Below are 
extracts of significant relevance: 
How does the CIFAS database work? Before providing services, goods or finance or when 
employing a new staff member, CIFAS members can undertake checks against the 
database. If a CIFAS record is returned as a result of these checks a member must not 
simply reject an application or close a facility and they are required to carry out further 
investigation to confirm that the personal data provided on the application is correct. 
Further guidance says, You can ask the organisation to explain why it has declined your 
application, terminated your employment, or closed your facility and the organisation should 
provide you with an explanation, including details of any credit reference agencies or fraud 
prevention services it has used to make a decision 
I asked Starling whether it had asked Mr G about the information it had found. It said it didnt 
ask Mr G about the circumstances that led to the database markers. By not doing so I dont 
think it treated him fairly. Without discussing this information with Mr G, Starling didnt give 
him the opportunity to explain why the information was there and question or clarify 
Starlings understanding of it, before it made its decision. 
Mr G has obtained and provided information from CIFAS (which has been shared with 
Starling prior to this provisional decision). This shows that the entries on that database relate 
to protective registration (with him as a victim of identity fraud) rather than him as the party 
making the applications, which would usually show differently. The information supports 
what Mr G told Starling. On the first page it says theres a protective registration. Further 
down it has four records from different banks. CIFAS have explained below the records the 
following:
 
The first record relates to details provided within an application  the False Identity marker. 
This includes all the information provided to our member by an impersonator. Generally their 
true identity is not known, but what is known is the identity that they claim to be and the 
contact details they have provided. 
So, this would suggest the four occasions (that have been noted) a fraudster had applied for 
credit using some of Mr Gs details and the banks referred it to CIFAS as attempted fraud.
I think if Starling had engaged with Mr G here and made some enquiries, its possible it 
might not have made the decision that it did. I say this because Im satisfied the information 
doesnt represent what Starling thought it did. I asked Starling to let me have any comments 
or observations about the information thats recorded on the report. It has acknowledged the 
loadings suggest Mr G had been the victim of impersonation fraud but as the phone 
numbers matched it declined the application. But what the information shows is a third party 
had Mr Gs contact details and was using them. And as I have said, it should have asked Mr 
G some questions to check the loading. 
Overall, I think this situation should have been handled better than it was, especially given 
Mr G had told Starling about the impersonation fraud hed had. This was a further 
opportunity to make enquiries. I think Mr G was caused considerable trouble and upset as a 
result. Hes mentioned feeling anxious and concerned and being made to feel like a 
fraudster but not understanding why. Having read what Mr G has said I think this was very 
upsetting for him. 
I think its only fair that Starling put things right by recognising the impact this situation had 
on him. Mr G has told us that he already had an account elsewhere, so I think in terms of not 
getting an account with Starling any inconvenience wouldnt have been material. But I do 
feel Starlings actions lead to significant distress and anxiety. So, I intend to direct it to pay 
£400 compensation to recognise this and send a written apology.
Mr G responded to say he had nothing further to add. Starling didnt respond with any 
evidence or new arguments. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further to add I see no reason to depart from the conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision. In summary, I dont think Starling treated Mr G fairly. It 
didnt make any enquiries to check the information its checks had unearthed. I believe had it 
done so, its possible it might not have made the decision that it did because the evidence 
shows the information related to a protective registration. 
Mr G made efforts to engage with Starling to understand what had happened and he told it 
he had been the victim of fraud in the past. Starlings handling of the situation wasnt in line 
with good industry practice, specifically guidance published by CIFAS and Im satisfied Mr G 
experienced significant upset as a result.
  My final decision
So, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Starling Bank Limited to:
-  Send Mr G a written apology for what happened; and 
-  Pay him £400 compensation for the distress this matter caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman