DRN-3726711
The complaint
Miss O complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited irresponsibly granted her 
a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2020, Miss O acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
VWFS. Miss O was required to make 48 monthly repayments of around £231 with a final 
optional payment of £5,805 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The 
total repayable under the agreement was around £16,922.
Miss O says that VWFS didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. VWFS didnt agree. It said that it carried 
out a thorough assessment which included credit checks and the completion of a financial 
suitability questionnaire in which Miss O confirmed the agreement was affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought VWFS didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss O didnt agree. She said that VWFS relied on out of date information from her previous 
application and that her income had reduced significantly since then. She said that she was 
on maternity leave and her income was reducing towards the statutory maternity leave 
payment and that her return to work wouldnt result in her previous earnings due to the need 
to pay for childcare. She says that the agreement placed an unfair burden on her and had 
questions been asked about her circumstances, VWFS would have realised the agreement 
wasnt affordable.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, VWFS carried out a credit check. This didnt raise concerns. 
Miss O had limited credit commitments, a mortgage, small loan and utility contracts, and she 
was managing these without any issues. She had two credit cards but didnt have an 
outstanding balance on these. 
VWFS had provided a previous finance agreement to Miss O costing £219 a month. Miss O 
had maintained the payments without any issues and this agreement was replaced with this 
new agreement which required monthly repayments of around £231. While it is reasonable 
that VWFS will have taken into account the previous agreement and how Miss O had 
managed this, I think it was required to verify her income before providing the new 
agreement to ensure that the new, slightly higher, repayments were sustainably affordable 
for her.
I cannot say what Miss O would have disclosed had she been asked about her income. I 
dont think VWFS needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, 
Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in Miss Os statements as an 
indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed two months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision and 
considered the information in the bank statement for the month of the lending. Miss Os 
average income for the two months prior to the agreement was around £1,600. Miss Os 
income then reduced to £1,068 in February 2020 but this was received after the agreement 
had been put in place. While I cant say what Miss O would have said if asked about her 
income, I think it reasonable to accept that had further questions been asked VWFS would 
have identified the above average income figure and that Miss O may have explained that 
her income was reducing. 
In this case, as Miss Os credit file didnt raise any concerns, and included her main 
committed living expenses, such as her mortgage and utility accounts, I find it reasonable 
that VWFS relied on the information received through its checks when assessing Miss Os 
expenditure. This showed Miss Os credit commitments to be around £600 a month. While I 
appreciate Miss O had other expenses she was paying I think based on her management of 
her previous agreement and the results of her credit check, it was reasonable that VWFS 
relied on this information and didnt carry out further checks.
Taking these figures into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to 
Miss O. So, while I note the comments that Miss O has made, I find it more likely than not 
that had further checks taken place VWFS would have still found the agreement to be 
affordable. For this reason, Im not persuaded that VWFS acted unfairly in approving the 
finance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman