DRN-2254161
The complaint
Mr R complains that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED refused to let him reject a 
faulty car.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr R acquired a second-hand car costing £7,000 funded by a hire 
purchase agreement. It was some six years old and had covered 87,293 miles. In April 2020 
the car broke down. It was established that the timing chain had snapped. The car was 
recovered and taken to a garage. Mr R complained and in June Startline arranged for an 
independent engineer to inspect the car.
His report confirms the fault was most likely present at the point of sale and suggests that 
the cost of repair be shared equally between Mr R and Startline. This conclusion was 
reached as the inspector believed that since Mr R had continued to drive the car when a 
noise was present this had resulted in greater damage. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. He didnt think it reasonable to conclude Mr R 
would have been aware the noise was a faulty timing chain. He said that the car made this 
sound when Mr R acquired it and there was no reason to presume he held any responsibility 
for the continuing problem.
He concluded the car was faulty when supplied and that Startline should pay for the cost of 
the repairs. He also thought it should refund Mr Rs monthly payments for the period the car 
was out of use.
Startline didnt agree and in due course it said that it needed evidence that Mr R thought the 
noise was normal. It believed the noise would have become progressively worse and it said 
he had told it that the car became undriveable after four months so he should have taken 
some action before it broke down.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Startline is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
It is not disputed that the car had a fault after some five months. The independent inspector 
has concluded this was present at the point of sale and so it is clear that it wasnt fit for 
purpose. The fault happened within six months and consumer law places the onus on the 
supplier to remedy the fault. That means that Startline is responsible for the repairs 
necessary to make the car fit for purpose. The law allows the business one opportunity to 
effect a repair.
I have no reason to doubt the finding of the independent engineer which states the fault was 
most likely present at the point of sale. That makes me wonder why the selling dealer didnt 
ensure the car was fit for purpose at the point of sale. If the dealer didnt spot it given, I 
presume, they have the relevant expertise and knowledge I am not sure why Mr R was 
expected to notice it. 
Starline asks for the impossible, evidence that Mr R thought the noise was normal. I am not 
sure how such evidence could be provided. In any event if the dealer didnt spot it I am not 
sure it is reasonable to expect Mr R to have done so. It may have increased in volume 
gradually, but that doesnt mean it is reasonable for him to have identified there was problem 
until it finally broke down.
Mr R has asked that he be allowed to reject the car, but the law allows Startline one attempt 
at a repair and so I cannot accede to this request. He has also said that he has been paying 
tax and insurance on the car without being able to use it. In the light of that I have added a 
small amount of compensation.
Putting things right
Startline should cover the cost of repairs and compensate Mr R for his loss of use of the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE 
LIMITED to:
Cover the cost of repairs to the timing chain so that the car is running properly.
Reimburse Mr R his monthly payments for loss of use from the date it broke down 
until the vehicle is repaired.
Pay interest at 8% simple on the refunded payments from the date paid until the date 
repaid.
Pay him compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman