DRN-4230569
The complaint
Mr K complains Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) refused to make a payment bound for Russia 
in April 2022. Mr K says he wasnt given a specific reason for any sanctions that applied, and 
BoS should have helped him with any applicable exceptions.   
What happened
On 17 March 2022, Mr K attempted to make a payment of around £4,000 to a Russian bank 
account. As the beneficiary didnt receive these funds, Mr K contacted BoS. Mr K was told 
the payment was subject to its internal checks.
Mr K complained about the poor customer service he had received, BoS accepted its service 
fell short and awarded Mr K £200 compensation.   
Mr K explained to BoS the extremely sensitive situation for why he needed to send the 
payment to a lawyers account for legal fees he owed. On 7 April 2022, the payment was 
declined and the funds including a fee previously charged for the payment, were returned to 
Mr Ks account. Unhappy about BoS decision Mr K complained.
There have been several responses from BoS after the payment was returned to him. In 
summary, some of the key points it made were: 
- Despite the payment being made on 17 March 2022, it was still pending a review on 
6 April 2022. These types of checks are carried out to ensure payments are not in 
breach of any sanctions and regulations enforced by the UK Government
- Because of the number of payments being made to Russia, as well as the additional 
checks that needed to be carried out, BoS were working through a two-week 
backlog. This meant there were longer delays that could not be avoided 
- On 7 April 2002, BoS compliance team decided the payment couldnt be approved 
due to the sanctions in place. It appreciates this caused Mr K frustration, but BoS 
cant provide information about the specific sanction stopping the payment
- Sanctions and regulations are changing daily and by the hour, so BoS couldnt 
determine when a payment may successfully be sent 
- As Mr K didnt receive a call from one of BoS staff as promised, a £100 payment has 
been credited to his account for the inconvenience suffered 
- It is important for BoS to be able to support its customer where possible, and it 
considered all options in supporting Mr K with his payment. BoS is sorry Mr K feels 
its service hasnt been at the level he expects. Whilst it endeavours to provide a high 
level of service, its paramount BoS ensures it adheres to any applicable rules and 
regulations 
Mr K referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it. BoS didnt 
agree this service could consider Mr Ks complaint as it was made outside the time limits that 
apply. Namely, that it had been referred to this service more than six months after BoS 
issued its final response letter. 
In short, Mr K said his complaint about the declined payment had been made later than the 
previous final response which dealt with customer service issues regarding the payment 
being withheld by BoS for checks. After first finding this wasnt a complaint we could 
consider, our Investigator said Mr Ks complaint was one that we could. BoS agreed and 
sent its submissions to this service.  
Our Investigator then sent Mr K their finding on the merits of their complaint against BoS. 
They didnt recommend Mr Ks complaint is upheld. In short, they made the following 
findings: 
- At the time of the payment instruction, there was a lot of uncertainty regarding 
payments to Russia due to ongoing and escalating regulations and sanctions. They 
were being released on a weekly basis by the UK government 
- The reason Mr Ks payment was blocked was due to the beneficiarys bank being 
sanctioned on 1 March 2022. Based on that information, BoS acted correctly in 
stopping the payment and wouldnt have the authority to send such a payment 
without the sanctions being lifted 
- Mr K said some payments can be exempt from sanctions, but this isnt at BoS 
discretion. For a payment to be exempted in this way, Mr K would need to obtain a 
license from the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI). This UK 
government body is solely able to grant licenses for payments to sanctioned bodies 
- BoS couldve communicated better with Mr K and provided a better explanation 
about why the payment couldnt be sent. But that doesnt change the fact it couldnt. 
BoS compensation for its poor information and customer service is fair in the 
circumstances 
Mr K didnt agree with what our Investigator said. In summary, some of the key points he 
made are: 
- the overall £300 compensation BoS paid him is insulting and more should be paid 
given the extreme and highly sensitive predicament he was in therefore the reason 
why he needed to send the payment urgently 
- Mr Ks payment was made on 17 March 2022, and the Russian bank it was destined 
for was only sanctioned on 6 April 2022  as he was told on a call with BoS. So this 
is at odds with the Investigator saying they were imposed on 1 March 2022
- BoS should have explained the OFSI exception procedure to Mr K, and offered to 
help with the process and application
Our Investigator responded to Mr K. They reiterated some of their previous findings, but 
elaborated on the following points: 
- Payments, particularly international ones go through various checks, and this can 
take some time. Its a complex and time-consuming process to review up-to-date 
sanctions and ensure theyre applied correctly. They were satisfied the sanction was 
in place prior to the payment instruction - this information is available on the 
governments website- They agreed BoS couldve directed Mr K to OFSI, however theres no way of telling if 
a licence for the payment wouldve been granted. So theyre not able to say it would 
have made a difference 
- This service deals with complaints about whether a consumer has been treated fairly 
under any relevant rules and regulations. We wouldnt expect a business to refer 
them to the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
Mr K didnt agree and, amongst other previously made points, he said he had asked BoS 
about how to make exemption payments to Russia, and it should therefore have done much 
more to help him given his situation. Because of this, its failed to treat him fairly. 
In response, our Investigator said this service reviews individual complaints to see if a 
business has acted fairly. They also re-emphasised that they thought BoS didnt do anything 
wrong by not sending the payment due to UK government sanctions.
As Mr K didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide.               
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know Mr K feels strongly about 
his complaint, and I dont undervalue in any way the serious and extremely sensitive reason 
for why sending the payment was so time critical for him and his family. So Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than 
the parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr K and BoS have said 
before reaching my decision. 
Bos has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when processing payment 
instructions for its customers, which includes ensuring no UK or other international sanctions 
might be breached. Those obligations are overriding in terms of otherwise meeting general 
timeframes for processing payments. And this is the same for every bank. This does mean 
that sometimes payment instructions are justifiably declined.
Mr K argues that had BoS acted as it should have, and not held onto and reviewed his 
payment, it wouldve been sent to the beneficiary bank in Russia. Thats because the 
relevant sanction against that bank wouldnt have been in place at the time of his instruction. 
There is some dispute as to when the UK government placed a sanction on the Russian 
bank based on what is reported on the governments website. But even if I were to accept 
that it was imposed on the 6 April 2022, Im persuaded BoS hasnt done anything wrong in 
withholding the payment whilst it carried out its checks. 
At the time of the payment instruction there was significant activity relating to Russian 
sanctions being imposed. And not just in the UK, but on an international level. BoS has said this was changing daily and at times on an hourly basis. Its also said this caused a 
substantive demand on its services to check all payments bound for Russia  and so caused 
significant delays in its ability and timeliness to carry out such reviews.
Having carefully considered this, I dont think it was unreasonable that it took the time it did 
to review the payment. So Im persuaded BoS did nothing wrong when declining Mr Ks 
payment instruction in April 2022. 
If BoS failed to implement UK sanctions it couldve faced serious repercussions. So Im 
satisfied by taking the approach it did, this was both reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances. I also note the beneficiary bank in Russia has been subject to previous 
sanctions being imposed against it by the UK government. So I think its likely to have made 
the situation even more complex. 
Mr K argues that BoS should have told him what specific sanction applied to his payment. 
BoS did tell Mr K his payment couldnt be approved due to the sanctions in place. But given 
this information is available publicly, Im satisfied BoS should have told him the specific 
sanction it had applied to the payment. Having said that, Im not persuaded a better 
disclosure here would have altered Mr Ks position as the payment would still not have been 
sent to the sanctioned Russian bank.
Mr K also argues that given the payment was for a very sensitive and critical reason, BoS 
should have told him that he could apply for a licence from OFSI. I can understand why Mr K 
feels this way, and I dont doubt being told this wouldve helped him. 
But Im not aware of any obligation under which BoS has to provide advice to Mr K under 
these circumstances. BoS told Mr K the payment wasnt being processed due to UK 
sanctions. So it was for him to seek independent legal advice. 
BoS accepted on two occasions that its communication and customer service below the 
standards it expects. Because of this is has paid Mr K £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused. 
On balance, I think this is fair compensation. I say that because its withholding and review of 
the payment, the time it took to do this, and not processing it were done in line with its 
obligations. And Ive already said its actions were reasonable given the prevailing 
circumstances.  
That means I need to look at the poor customer service elements in isolation. And having 
done that, Im persuaded the compensation Mr Ks been awarded is fair. In saying this, I 
once again dont undervalue what Mr K wouldve been going through on a personal and 
familial level. 
Lastly, our Investigator is correct to say that we have a statutory duty to resolve individual 
complaints, and anything about a business wider operation and processes is something the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, deal with. The scope of our purpose and powers 
are contained in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, and in the FCAs DISP 
handbook.   
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman