DRN-4001763
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited treated it unfairly 
by processing an invalid chargeback request.
S solicitor has brought the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
S is a merchant. In April 2020, a chargeback for £1200 was raised against S in relation to a 
booking for accommodation abroad between 15 March and 21 March 2020.
S solicitors submitted its defence on 24 April 2020. S contended that although it was unable 
to provide its service due to the Covid19 pandemic, no breach of contract had occurred. 
They said the contract between S and its client had properly incorporated force majeure 
provisions which were brought to the client's attention and had been accepted by them. This 
letter expressed S dissatisfaction with the matter and WorldPay recorded it as a complaint.
WorldPay defended the chargeback, however the defence was rejected by the issuing bank 
who said the defence was insufficient. WorldPay also didnt uphold S complaint, so S 
solicitors brought the complaint to us.
The complaint was considered by two of our investigators. The first investigator said that 
WorldPay hadnt made an error in how theyd processed S chargeback claim as the validity 
of the claim and the outcome was decided by the Card Scheme (in this case VISA) and not 
by WorldPay.
A different investigator reviewed the case. He agreed with the first investigators outcome but
for slightly different reasons. He explained that VISA issued specific guidance to merchant
acquirers, such as WorldPay, for disputes involving Covid19. He said the guidance suggests
the merchant would need to show that it provided a reasonable alternative and that if a
reasonable alternative had been offered, there would then be no right to a chargeback.
S told their customer to approach their travel insurer instead of offering an alternative. So our
investigator considered what the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) says about
regulations that might require a refund. Having done so, our investigator thought the
chargeback had been processed correctly by WorldPay.
S was unhappy with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint,
so, it was passed to me to decide.
S solicitors said WorldPay shouldnt have ever processed the chargeback. They said the
VISA guidance at the time the chargeback was raised stated that if the merchant hasnt
provided the service due to a government-imposed prohibition, the cardholder does not have
a dispute right.
S would like WorldPay to refund the transaction in full.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I couldnt intervene in the 
outcome of S dispute with the cardholder. I explained the chargeback process is run by the 
Card Scheme and operated according to the Card Schemes rules. WorldPay didnt operate 
the scheme and were not responsible for deciding whether the chargeback should be 
successful. 
So, I considered the actions of WorldPay and whether they acted fairly once the chargeback 
was raised. I said:
WorldPays actions
S solicitor says that WorldPay failed to properly administer the Card Scheme rules 
by processing an invalid chargeback request. They refer to guidance issued by VISA 
in a newsletter dated 27 March 2020 regarding dispute resolution during the 
pandemic.
This newsletter says that in the case of cancellations by a merchant  if the 
merchant has not provided the service due to a government-imposed prohibition, the 
cardholder does not have a dispute right. S solicitor says that WorldPay shouldve 
rejected the chargeback at this stage.
Ive considered what WorldPays role was here and what action they couldve taken. 
The chargeback was initiated by the issuer, so WorldPay had to respond to it. They 
had the option to accept the chargeback or to give the merchant the opportunity to 
defend it.
We would expect the acquirer (WorldPay) to act in line with their terms and 
conditions to ensure the chargeback is handled correctly. I have therefore looked at 
what WorldPays chargeback policy says to confirm if this was followed.
The terms and conditions of S agreement with WorldPay state it is the responsibility 
of the merchant to provide compelling evidence to WorldPay for the chargeback to be 
defended. It also states they arent obliged to investigate the validity of any 
chargeback, but we would think it reasonable for them to do so if there was a realistic 
chance of a successful outcome.
WorldPay contacted S in a timely manner and gave it the opportunity to provide a 
defence which it did via its solicitors. The basis of S defence was that its customer 
accepted its terms and conditions, including the force majeure provisions which 
stated that S would not be liable for any loss incurred by (amongst others) quarantine 
restrictions and government actions.
WorldPay defended the chargeback on this basis but it was rejected by the issuing 
bank. They said the defence was insufficient under the Card Scheme rules as there 
was no evidence that the terms and conditions had been read and accepted by the 
cardholder, even though S had supplied details of the terms and conditions available 
on its website. As a result, WorldPay said they had no choice but to accept the 
chargeback.
S solicitors responded to WorldPay disputing the outcome. They said S terms and
conditions, including the force majeure provisions, were incorporated into the 
contract. They said S client accepted them when they confirmed the booking online 
as the following message is displayed to them, By submitting the form you accept 
our terms, with a link to the terms and conditions on S website. However, 
WorldPay confirmed in their final response that this wouldnt have been sufficient.WorldPay are familiar with the Card Schemes processes and the likelihood of 
whether a claim might succeed. In terms of cases where the acceptance of terms 
and conditions is used as a defence, VISA require the merchant to provide, at a 
minimum, a hyperlink to the terms and conditions at the point of sign off. Based on 
the defence provided by S, it seems unlikely the Card Scheme wouldve ruled in their 
favour with the acceptance process S had in place at the time of the sale.
The next stage in the process wouldve been to re-present the case to the issuing 
bank who may have decided to take the case to arbitration and allow VISA to make a 
ruling on the case. WorldPay needed to decide the likelihood of whether an appeal 
wouldve been successful in having the chargeback overturned.
So, although I cant make a finding on the outcome of the dispute or comment on 
whether VISAs rules are fair, I have considered whether WorldPay acted fairly in 
how they handled the chargeback process. And in this instance, I think WorldPay 
acted fairly and reasonably as they knew it was highly unlikely there would be a 
favourable outcome for S.
VISA guidance
Although S solicitors have referred to VISAs guidance in their newsletter dated 27 
March 2020, I think it is important to note that guidance, particularly around the travel 
industry, changed frequently and rapidly during the early days of the pandemic. VISA 
issued updated guidance on 29 May 2020 - which was around the time the appeal of 
this chargeback wouldve been heard.
In VISAs updated guidance they said:
to prove a government prohibition, the regulation which explicitly negates the 
cardholders right to a refund or prohibits the merchant from lawfully offering 
the service must be provided
regulation that is specific to a consumers right to a refund will always take 
precedence over general regulation or orders to cancel services due to 
COVID-19
CMA guidance
The CMA also published guidance around this time to help businesses treat their 
customers fairly regarding cancellations and refunds in response to the pandemic.
They said a contract would be considered to be frustrated if it couldnt go ahead as 
agreed due to no fault of either party. So, if the contract is frustrated it comes to an 
end and if customers have paid money in advance for services that they have not 
received, they will generally be entitled to a refund.
For most consumer contracts, the CMA would expect a consumer to be offered a full 
refund where they are prevented from receiving a service because laws in the UK or 
abroad have made it illegal to receive or use the service.
Also, in the CMAs view, rights to a refund will usually apply even where the business 
says part of the payment is a non-refundable deposit. This is because the contract 
will have been frustrated and the terms which allow a business to provide no service 
but keep a consumers money are likely to be considered unfair.Taking all of this into account, I dont think WorldPay have done anything wrong here.
WorldPay accepted my provisional findings but I didnt receive a response from S solicitors 
despite granting them an extension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision, for the same reasons. 
I can understand the frustration my decision will cause to S directors, particularly
as S has no contract with the issuing banks and so cant claim against them. However, as
Ive explained, I can only look at the actions of WorldPay and I havent found any evidence
that WorldPay have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman