DRN-4164691
The complaint
Mr I complains AWP P&C SA unfairly declined his motor warranty claim.
What happened
AWP declined a claim made against Mr Is motor warranty. It said he hadnt shown his 
vehicle had met his policys service conditions. He complained but AWP didnt change its 
position. It said it considered his policy invalid so would be cancelling his policy. It offered to 
refund the premiums Mr I had paid.  
Mr I wasnt satisfied so came to this service. Our investigator found Mr Is vehicle had been 
serviced outside its manufacturers network. He felt as that didnt meet the terms of the 
policy, AWPs decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable. So he didnt 
recommend it do anything differently. As Mr I didnt accept that outcome the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.  
I issued a provisional decision. As its reasoning forms part of this final decision Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explain why I intended to find it unreasonable for AWP to decline Mr Is claim 
based on the servicing condition. I set out why I intended to instead require it to consider his 
claim against the remaining terms of his policy. I also explained why I planned to require 
AWP to pay Mr I £100 compensation. Finally I invited both to provide anything they would 
like me to consider before issuing this final decision.     
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Is policy says its only valid if his vehicle is serviced by an authorised 
manufacturers retailer in line with the manufacturers specifications and service 
schedule. It says as Mr I hasnt shown this, his policy is invalid and his claim is 
declined. 
However, an insurer can only decline a claim for failure to comply with a condition if 
that failure directly led to the breakdown. This is set out in ICOBS. Section 8.1.2(b) 
states a rejection of claim for breach of a condition or warranty is unreasonable 
unless the circumstances of the claim are connected to the breach. 
Its for AWP to show the breakdown is connected to the breach. So far it hasnt done 
so. Its simply said Mr I hasnt shown the service condition has been met. That 
means its decision that the policy is invalid and to decline the claim is unreasonable. 
So I intend to require it to take steps to put things right for Mr I. 
AWP will need to consider the claim against the remaining terms of Mr Is policy (ie it 
cant decline it because the servicing condition hasnt been met). If a claim is 
payable, then it can deduct any refunded premiums from what it pays to settle the 
claim.  
Mr I should understand that I dont intend to require AWP to pay his claim. I dont 
know enough about the claim to have an opinion on that. I can only currently go as 
far as to say it was unfair declined it based on the servicing condition. Im not 
currently able to say if it should be paid when considered against the remaining terms 
of the policy. The claim, as far as Im aware, hasnt been fully considered. 
It isnt known if Mr Is claim would have been paid, if not for AWPs unfair decline 
based on the servicing condition. So I dont know if he has suffered any further 
financial loss or disadvantage. So I dont intend to require AWP to pay him anything 
to cover any financial loss  or for him being without his vehicle.
I do intend to require AWP to pay Mr I compensation to make up the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience its unreasonable decision caused him. I can see hes had 
to spend a fair bit of time dealing with the issue  becoming quite frustrated when 
doing so. £100 will be a fair amount to recognise the impact on him for this.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr I nor AWP responded to my provisional decision. So I dont have a reason to 
change my position from that set out above. That means my final decision is that AWPs 
invalidation of the policy and decline of the claim, based on the servicing condition, is 
unreasonable. Instead it will need to consider the claim against the remaining terms of Mr Is 
policy (ie it cant decline it because the servicing condition hasnt been met). If a claim is 
payable, then it can deduct any refunded premiums from what it pays to settle the claim.  
Finally AWP needs to pay Mr I £100 compensation to make up the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience its unreasonable decision caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, AWP will need to pay Mr I £100 compensation and consider 
his claim against the remaining terms of his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman