DRN-2764709
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that British Gas Insurance Limited has turned down their claim on
their home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Mrs D took out a home emergency insurance policy with British Gas on 2
November 2019.
Around three weeks later Mr D and Mrs D had a problem with their electricity. British Gas
arranged for an engineer to visit on 25 November. But before then, Mr D says he called in a
local electrician to see if the fault could be fixed. He says the local electrician did nothing,
other than advise the fault needed more investigation.
On his visit on 25 November, British Gas engineer said the fault wasnt covered by            
Mr D and Mrs Ds policy. His report, which is recorded on British Gas engineers log, said 
3rd party damage.
The reason behind the engineer saying what he did in his report is that Mr D and Mrs Ds
policy had a condition about work done by third parties. It said if anyone other than British
Gas carried out any work on Mr D and Mrs Ds system and damaged it, or that work hadnt
been completed properly, their cover didnt include putting it right.
Mr D and Mrs D were unhappy when British Gas told them the work needed to fix the fault
wouldnt be covered by their policy. So they complained to British Gas.
A second engineer visited Mr D and Mrs D on 13 December. His report, also recorded on
British Gas engineers log said: New contract, 3rd party removed earths, customer said
nothing was done by local sparky.
Mr D and Mrs D arranged for British Gas to fix the fault on 27 January 2020. But they were
still unhappy British Gas wouldnt cover the work under their home emergency insurance
policy. A few days before the work was due to begin, a British Gas service manager spoke
with Mr D and Mrs D by phone about their complaint. But what was said in that call is
disputed.
On 27 January, a British Gas engineer visited Mr D and Mrs D to fix the fault. His report of
the work he carried out said: rewire utility ring circuit surface in conduit.
Following completion of the work, British Gas sent Mr D and Mrs D an invoice for just over
£700. Mr D and Mrs D were unhappy with this and complained to British Gas. British Gas
didnt uphold their complaint. It said its service manager had explained to Mr D and Mrs D
there was a pre-existing fault not covered by the policy which British Gas had given a quote
to fix. But on further investigation it said it found more upgrade work was needed. British Gas
said its service manager had agreed this additional work would be carried out under the
existing quote.
Its worth noting here that, as well as the condition about work done by third parties not being
covered, Mr D and Mrs Ds policy also said they wouldnt be covered for any pre-existing
fault with their system or for any upgrades or improvements to their system.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr D and Mrs D have brought their complaint to us. They say 
they have a legitimate insurance policy, so British Gas should pay for all of the work. Failing 
that, they say British Gas should honour the 50% discount they say it agreed to give them 
(this is something British Gas disputes). Mr D and Mrs D want their premium back. And 
theyve expressed concern about a certificate of completion British Gas gave them for
the electrical works.
The investigator who looked at Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint didnt uphold it. He thought the
work carried out wasnt covered by the policy. He thought this was because either the fault
had been caused by a third party or the work done amounted to an upgrade or improvement
to their system. In relation to the electricity completion certificate, our investigator said British
Gas had said it would offer Mr D and Mrs D £30 in compensation as a gesture of goodwill for
its delay in issuing it.
In my provisional decision of 5 March 2021, I explained why  like the investigator who 
looked at Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint  I didnt intend to uphold it. But I said some of my 
reasons were different from our investigators and so both Mr D and Mrs D and British Gas 
needed to have the chance to comment on them. I also said the rules about complaining to 
the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into complaints. And I explained 
there were some parts of Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint that in my view fell outside the 
jurisdiction of this service. I set out which parts of the complaint I considered we couldnt 
investigate.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr D and Mrs D have said they accept the £30 
compensation British Gas has offered them for the delay in issuing the electricity completion 
certificate. British Gas says it agrees with my provisional decision. Mr D and Mrs Ds 
complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered whether we are able to look at certain aspects of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint about their declined claim. And Ive decided there are 
certain aspects of Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint that I cant look at, as Ill set out below.
In my provisional decision, I looked at Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint in two parts. I said:
Did British Gas act fairly when declining the claim?
Its my current intention not to uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint about their declined claim.
I know this will disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them to
understand why, from what Ive seen so far, I dont think the fault they contacted British Gas
about was covered by their policy.
My starting point is Mr D and Mrs Ds home emergency insurance policy. It has two
exclusions (which Ive mentioned already) that I think are relevant to Mr D and Mrs Ds
complaint.The first is the one that said if anyone other than British Gas carried out any work on          
Mr D and Mrs Ds system and damaged it, or that work hadnt been completed properly, their
cover didnt include putting it right.
The second is one said that Mr D and Mrs Ds cover was only for repairing or replacing
their system. It didnt include any upgrades. Under the policy terms this meant it wouldnt
cover any improvements that made the system safer or more efficient.
From British Gass engineers log, the first two engineers who visited Mr D and Mrs Ds
home said damage by a third party had caused the fault. British Gas says no earths were
present in the accessories which meant they were cut out.
British Gas says when its senior engineer arrived at Mr D and Mrs Ds home on 27 January
to carry out the work, its service manager (the same one whod spoken to Mr D the week
before) asked the engineer to go back through the history and assess the installation again.
British Gas said its engineer confirmed that the installation was sub-standard and had been
installed without earthing to various different points. British Gas says this meant it couldnt
carry out the repair without adding new cables into Mr D and Mrs Ds electrical installation. It
says this was an upgrade under the terms of the policy. And, as Ive already mentioned, this
engineers report said hed carried out rewiring of a utility ring circuit.
One of Mr Ds complaints is that British Gas changed its reasons for saying why the fault
wasnt covered by the policy. First, it said it was third party damage, but then it referred to a
pre-existing fault and the need for an upgrade. I can understand why Mr D and Mrs D felt
some confusion. But from the information Ive got, I think British Gas assessment of the fault
itself changed over time  it seems that, while the first two engineers attributed the damage
to a third party, it wasnt until the third (more senior) engineer looked at the installation as a
whole that he concluded it was sub-standard. By implication, this meant it needed to be
upgraded by being rewired. And this is something Mr D and Mrs Ds policy didnt cover.
My role here isnt to decide what caused the fault Mr D and Mrs D had with their electricity.
Its to decide if British Gas acted fairly and reasonably in turning down their claim. From the
outset British Gas engineers said the fault wasnt covered by the policy. The reasons they
gave for it not being covered have changed over time. But, as Ive said, I think theres a
reasonable explanation for that. Also, and in the absence  so far  of any evidence showing
me the work Mr D and Mrs D had done wasnt an upgrade (as defined in the policy), I think
British Gas was entitled to rely on what its engineers said had caused the fault.
It follows that, from what Ive seen so far, I think British Gas has acted fairly and reasonably
and in line with their policy terms in declining Mr D and Mrs Ds claim.
Can we look at the disputes about whether a discount was applied to the work carried out,
and about the completion certificate?
But this is only part of Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint. As Ive already said, theres a dispute
between Mr D and Mrs D and British Gas about a discount they say was agreed for the work
that was carried out. And theyve raised concerns about the electricity completion certificate
British Gas has sent them.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isn't free to look at every complaint that's brought to us.
We're governed by rules set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA). They're called the DISP rules and can be found in the FCA's handbook. They set out
the complaints that we can (and can't) investigate.One of those rules, DISP 2.3.1, says we can only consider a complaint if it relates to an act
or omission by a firm in carrying out regulated activities, or any ancillary activities carried on
by the firm in connection with them. Ive thought about whether Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint
about the discount and the competition certificate is one we can consider under our rules.
My provisional decision on Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint about their declined claim is that it
wasnt covered by their home emergency policy. That means the work British Gas
subsequently did for them wasnt done under a contract of insurance. It was done under a
private contract.
Handing a claim under a contract of insurance is an activity that is regulated. It falls under
carrying out contracts of insurance, and therefore is covered under our rules. Thats why
we can look into Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint about their insurance claim being declined.
But a private contract between a company and its customer for works to be carried out,
which is what Mr D and Mrs D entered into with British Gas after their insurance claim had
been turned down, isnt a regulated activity, or an activity ancillary to something regulated.
So my provisional finding is that we cant look at Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint about the
discount and the completion certificate  because these things relate to work under a private
contract, not a contract of insurance.
As our investigator noted, British Gas has offered Mr D and Mrs D £30 in compensation for
its delay in sending them the completion certificate. If theyd like to accept this offer, they
should let our investigator know.
As Ive mentioned, Mr D and Mrs D have said they accept the £30 compensation British Gas 
has offered them for the delay in issuing the electricity completion certificate, while British 
Gas says it agrees with my provisional decision. Having looked at this complaint again, I 
cant see any reason to change the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. Those 
reasons therefore now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint about their declined 
claim. And, also for the reasons Ive given, we cant look into Mr D and Mrs Ds complaint 
about the discount and the completion certificate, because these things relate to work under 
a private contract, not a contract of insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman