DRN-2648462
The complaint
 Mrs M complains that Arrow global Limited (Arrow) and its agents havent dealt with her
account properly or assigned her monthly payments correctly.
What happened
 Mrs M had a credit card debt that was acquired by Arrow in 2012. Mrs M agreed to a
payment arrangement of £5 per month, which she says has paid ever since.
In September 2015 Arrow appointed a debt recovery company (DRa) to administer Mrs Ms
account on its behalf. DRa wrote to Mrs M twice in September 2015 to let her know it was
looking after her account and asked her to make contact with them  it also let her know that
it had received the September 2015 payment she had paid to Arrow, and her outstanding
balance was £4,230.76 and in the second letter confirmed another payment and an
outstanding balance of £4,225.76.
On 22 October 2015 DRa wrote to Mrs M again asking her to make contact and confirming it
had received that months payment via Arrow but asking for future payments to be paid
through DRa, this letter confirmed the new balance of £4,220.76. Mrs M didnt make contact
but continued to pay the monthly payment directly to Arrow. Another letter was sent on 28
October 2015 confirming another payment received and a new balance of £4,215.76.
DRa didnt confirm November or Decembers payments but wrote to her again in January
2016 with a new outstanding balance of £4,210.76, and in February showing a new balance
of £4,205.76.
In May 2016 Arrow appointed a different debt recovery company (DRb) to manage Mrs Ms
account. DRb wrote to Mrs M on 15 June 2016 confirming her outstanding balance to be
£4,205.76. Mrs M didnt hear from either DRb or Arrow again but continued to pay the
agreed monthly payment direct to Arrow.
In March 2019 Arrow appointed another new debt recovery company (DRc) to manage Mrs
Ms account. On 12 March 2019 DRc wrote to Mrs M and told her that her outstanding 
balance was £4,273.76. Mrs M wrote back to DRc disputing this and explaining that she had
a payment agreement in place and hadnt missed any payments. DRc responded to Mrs M
telling her that no payments had been received since November 2015.
At this point Mrs M became quite concerned as she knew she had been making the
payments regularly as agreed, and yet DRc had said they hadnt been received and the
balance outstanding seemed to be going up instead of down. She wrote back to DRc for
more information on what had been going on  they didnt reply. So, she wrote to Arrow 
there were delays in Arrow answering Mrs Ms concerns and they sent her a cheque for
£100 to recognise this. They also confirmed that Mrs Ms outstanding balance was
£4273.76.
Mrs M was unhappy with this and so referred her complaint to this service. The investigator
upheld her complaint, in summary she said:
She was satisfied that Mrs M had provided statements showing the payments had 
been made and that taking into account the January 2019 payment the outstanding 
balance should be £3,985.76
She thought Arrow should increase its compensation award from £100 to £200
Arrow disagreed and argued that if Mrs M had made her payments to the different debt
recovery companies instead of Arrow directly, there wouldnt have been any confusion. They
also said they still werent able to see all of the monthly payments Mrs M had made but
could see the last six months.
The investigator then issued a second opinion on the complaint  her new recommendations
were that Arrow should accept that the payments had been made, and issue Mrs M with a
new up to date outstanding balance. However, it no longer had to increase its compensation
amount as she felt Mrs M should take some responsibility for how she had chosen to make
her payments.
Arrow didnt respond to the investigator but wrote to Mrs M confirming an outstanding
balance of £4,273.76  the same balance it had told her previously. DRc has continued to
chase Mrs M for this amount throughout.
As Arrow didnt respond to the investigators view or comply with the findings in it, the
matter was passed to me to decide. My provisional findings, issued on 12 February 2021, 
were:
Mrs M has not disputed that she owes the debt, and has been paying the same monthly
payment of £5 from as far back as January 2012. She has provided copies of bank
statements which show these payments. She has continued to make her monthly payments
to date.
The statements along with the admission from Arrow that they have been able to see the last
six payments satisfy me that Mrs M has been making her payments each month, and Arrow
has been receiving them.
It appears to me the payments were being applied to her account and the balance reducing
each month by £5 up until October 2015 when DRa confirmed her balance of £4,215.76. 
After
this it seems the balance stopped reducing each month  which is in direct contradiction with
the statements Mrs M provided showing payments were made.
As Arrow hasnt been able to work out the balance, I have calculated what Mrs M has paid
from October 2015  as this appears to be the last time that the credits were applied
correctly  to date. The figure is £325 (that is 64 monthly payments of £5). So, I believe the
fairest solution would be for Arrow to deduct the £325 from the October 2015 balance of
£4,215.76. Leaving Mrs M a balance of £3,890.76 outstanding, and it should update DRc of
the new balance.
Once it has done this Mrs M should make contact with DRc and arrange to make her
monthly payments through them.
I understand Mrs Ms frustration in trying to deal with this matter and although she didnt
make contact with the various debt recovery companies that Arrow appointed, I can see why
she thought she didnt need to, Ill explain.
Although DRa asked Mrs M to make contact so payments could be made via them  they did
confirm monthly that they were receiving the payments, so she had no real reason to thinkthere was a problem here. And so, I can understand that when Arrow then appointed DRb
she thought the credits would still reach the account if she maintained her current monthly
payments.
She was only aware of this being an issue when DRc wrote to her and the balance had
appeared to increase. I can see why Mrs M who was already in financial difficulties would
have found this very stressful and worrying. Arrow didnt help when it then said it couldnt
find the payments and confirmed she owed the higher amount. It has left Mrs M in this
worried state throughout, even when Mrs M had provided the evidence of payment. Because
of this I think Arrow should pay Mrs M £150 for the trouble and upset it has caused her this is
in addition to the £100 it has already offered for the delays in dealing with her concerns.
I invited both parties to respond to my findings, neither did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Because neither party has anything more to add Ive reached the same conclusions as set 
out in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
  
My final decision
  For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this
complaint against Arrow Global Limited. To put things right it should now:
Reduce Mrs Ms outstanding debt to £3,890.76 and update the debt recovery 
company of this
Pay Mrs M a total of £250 for the trouble and upset it has caused her  this includes 
the £100 it offered in its final response to Mrs M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman