DRN-3803191
Complaint
Ms Z is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) closed her account and registered a fraud 
prevention marker against her.
Background
In July 2021, Ms Zs account received payments of £500 and £100. Some of the funds were 
immediately transferred to a third party and a large part of the remainder was spent via debit 
card purchases. Monzo subsequently received a notification from the bank responsible for 
sending the payments to Ms Zs account stating the payee of the funds had reported being a 
victim of fraud. Monzo reviewed Ms Zs account and as a result of its investigation, it decided 
to close her account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Ms Z complained that this was applied unfairly. 
Monzo looked at Ms Zs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Ms Z remained dissatisfied she 
referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Zs concerns. He didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms Z unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms Z disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Ms Z is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Ms Zs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Ms Z was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Ms Z allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Ms Zs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Ms Zs account and that her actions suggest she 
was complicit in this. 
Having considered matters, I do firstly want to start by saying that its disappointing to see 
that Monzo failed to obtain Ms Zs version of events before recording the marker. I accept 
that it had received a fraud notification from a third-party bank. But, on its own, this is only 
really enough to trigger suspicion or concern. And I have to question how Monzo could 
possibly have assessed Ms Zs knowledge and intention before it recorded the fraud marker 
against her when it looks like it didnt speak to him before doing so.
That said, even though it would have been preferrable for Monzo to have contacted Ms Z 
before recording the fraud marker. I dont think that doing so would have made too much of a 
difference here. I say this because I think there is enough here to justify the recording of the 
fraud marker. 
Ms Z has disputed that the funds were fraudulent. She said that someone transferred the 
funds to her in error and she didnt realise at the time the funds werent hers. Ms Z said that 
as she owed someone money she transferred £500 of what came in to a third party.
Ive thought about what Ms Z has said. But Im afraid that Ms Zs version of events simply 
isnt plausible. I say this because she had a low credit balance (of £7.23) on this account 
before the funds came in. So I cant see how she could reasonably have believed that the 
£600 were her funds. 
I do accept that Ms Z has provided statements to show that she had sufficient funds to pay 
the person she owed in other accounts. But I dont see how this explains the sequence of 
activity which took place on this account  especially as it doesnt explain why Ms Z would 
decide to pay the person she says she owed, at precisely the time money she wasnt 
expecting randomly turned up in an account. 
Ive also seen the statement Ms Z has provided to show that she received a £15.50 credit 
from the same person who reported the fraud, a year before the payments in question. But I 
dont see how or why this would lead Ms Z to believe that the same person would 
legitimately have transferred her a further £600 well over a year later. And at best she ought 
to have checked that the funds were legitimate before going on to spend them in the way 
that she did. Furthermore, as Monzo received a notification of fraud from a third-party bank, I 
think that it was legitimately entitled to conclude the funds transferred were fraudulent. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Ms Zs account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Ms Z was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Ms Zs account. The terms and conditions of Ms Zs account 
permitted Monzo to close it without notice where it believes a customer has broken the law 
or attempted to break the law. Ive already explained why I think Monzo was reasonably 
entitled to conclude that Ms Zs account had been used for fraudulent purposes when 
explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Monzo to close Ms Zs account in the way that it did. And Im therefore 
not upholding Ms Zs complaint on this basis either.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Ms Z. But even taking into account the impact 
Ms Z says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available evidence 
appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent activity. So I 
hope that Ms Z will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her 
concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, Ms Z might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman