DRN-3871652
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the repairs Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited made to her car 
following a claim made on her motor insurance policy. Mrs W is represented in this matter by 
her husband, Mr W, a named driver on her policy. He wants compensation, the policy 
excess refunded, the claim cancelled and reimbursement for their losses. 
What happened
Admiral took Mrs Ws car to its approved repairer, but Mr W was unhappy with the quality of 
the repairs made, missed repairs, and further areas of damage. Admiral agreed to make 
some further repairs, but Mr W was still unhappy as the car now had engine faults. Admiral 
then took the car to a dealers garage which said the engine faults werent accident-related 
but due to wear and tear. 
Admiral then instructed an independent assessor to inspect the car. He identified further 
areas that needed rectification, but he agreed that the engine issues werent accident-
related. Admiral paid Mr W £195 compensation for service issues. And it offered four options 
for dealing with the outstanding repairs. 
Mr W remained unhappy as the independent assessor had used diagnostics provided by the 
dealers garage rather than inspect the cars engine. He thought the car should have been 
deemed a write-off. And he wanted Admiral to compensate Mrs W for the amount she had to 
pay for repairs when the cars lease ended.  
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral 
had reasonably considered Mr Ws concerns and offered reasonable options to resolve 
those that were accident-related. She thought the car was repairable. She thought it wasnt 
unreasonable for the independent assessor to rely on the dealers garages diagnostics. And 
she thought Admirals offer of compensation for the service issues was fair and reasonable. 
She thought Admiral needed to consider and compensate Mrs W only for the cost of repairs 
related to the accident. 
Mr W replied that he thought the independent assessor shouldnt have relied on the dealers 
garages diagnostics. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs W felt frustrated that her car wasnt fully repaired on the first 
occasion. The damage from the accident was to the front and sides of the car. I can see that 
Mr W identified various areas that needed rectification and repair: the cars sides and alloys 
hadnt been repaired, there was new damage to the rear bumper, a brake warning light was 
on, and a door speaker had blown. And then the car developed engine problems. 
The Investigator has already explained that were not engineers. We dont assess whether or 
how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these 
situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and 
whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
Admiral agreed that the sides of the car and the alloys should have been repaired. But it said 
the engine problem wasnt accident-related. It relied on the dealers garages diagnostics to 
decide this. Mr W objected. We think that when there is a dispute about repairs, then an 
independent engineer should be instructed to resolve matters. And so I think Admiral fairly 
and reasonably instructed an independent assessor to inspect the car.
The assessor identified areas that needed rectification and further areas that needed repair. 
But he said the engine issues were due to wear and tear. Mr W objected that hed relied on 
the previously made diagnostics to decide this. But Im satisfied that the diagnostics carried 
out by a dealers garage could be relied on without needing to incur the cost of repeating 
them. And I can see that the independent assessor considered the report and whether the 
engine faults could have been caused by the accident, but he rejected this. 
Admiral agreed to carry out the further repairs the assessor identified as needed. It couldnt 
say how the rear bumper had been damaged, and so it agreed to repair it. And Admiral 
offered Mr W £195 compensation for service issues. 
But it didnt agree to repair the engine, warning light or speaker issues as it considered they 
werent accident-related. Im satisfied that Admiral reached this decision after reasonably 
considering the reports from the dealers garage and the independent assessor. Mr W 
thought the engineers should have examined the engine. But I think it was reasonable for 
Admiral to rely upon their expertise. 
I cant see that Admiral had any conflicting expert engineering evidence to consider. So I 
think it justified its decision about carrying out further rectification. I can also see that Admiral 
offered to consider further independent engineering evidence of Mr W were to provide this. I 
think that was fair and reasonable. 
Mr W thought the car should be written off. But I can see that the estimated repair cost is a 
fraction of the cars value. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to decide that the 
car was repairable. 
Mr W wanted the claim removed, but I think Admiral is required to maintain accurate records. 
A claim was made, and so I think this should be recorded. And, as the first part of a claim, 
the policy excess is always due. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Admiral to 
refund this. 
Admiral then offered Mr W four options to resolve his complaint:
The approved repairer would be authorised to complete the cosmetic repairs to the body 
work
Mr W could provide an estimate for those works from a garage of his choice and submit 
this to Admiral for review
Admiral could obtain a cash in lieu figure from the Independent Assessor for the 
outstanding work and provide this as settlement 
Mr W could return the car to the finance company and send in the invoice/bill for 
deductions made due to the repair issues to Admiral who would review and reimburse 
him for the amounts relating to the cosmetic damage.
I think these were fair and reasonable options. Mr W wanted Admiral to reimburse all the 
loss incurred when the car was returned to the finance company. But Im satisfied that 
Admirals offer to consider just the cost of the cosmetic repairs to the bodywork was fair and 
reasonable as it justified its decision that the other damage to the car wasnt accident-
related. And Admiral wasnt responsible for the engine faults, Im satisfied that Admiral 
doesnt need to pay compensation for Mrs W not being able to use the car.I can also see that Admiral paid for the cars diagnostics, for it to be recovered and Mr Ws 
travel costs after the engine issue caused it to fail. It paid for the independent assessors 
report. It agreed to repair the rear bumper as it couldnt identify how this damage had been 
caused. Admiral paid Mrs W £195 compensation for service issues. And it offered to 
consider evidence of Mr Ws loss of earnings. 
I think this, and the offers for the repair of the cars cosmetic damage, restores Mrs Ws 
position and compensates her for the service issues in keeping with our published guidance. 
So I dont require Admiral to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman