DRN-3681061
The complaint
Mr G complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor insurance
policy.
Where I refer to esure, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold esure responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports utility vehicle. Mr G had the
vehicle on a finance agreement. He had GAP (guaranteed asset protection) insurance to
cover any gap between the balance on the finance agreement and any total loss payment by
his insurer.
In early September 2020, Mr G went onto a price comparison website. For the year from 20
September 2020, he insured the car on a comprehensive policy with esure. He was the
policyholder. The policy also covered a named driver who Mr G has told us is his wife.
In taking out the policy, Mr G said hed been involved in four previous accidents or claims
from the following dates:
4 January 2017
11 September 2017
13 October 2018
16 June 2019
Unfortunately, Mr G reported that on 27 July 2021, his vehicle had been involved in another
accident. He made a claim to esure. It arranged recovery of the vehicle (and later paid the
recovery agent £30.72). esure said the vehicle was a total loss.
Within a few days, esure checked the Claims Underwriting Exchange database (CUE) and
found that other insurers had recorded additional claims when Mr Gs wife had been driving
on the following dates:
2 October 2018
28 May 2019
By an email dated 3 September 2021, esure declined Mr Gs July 2021 claim and said the
policy was void because it wouldnt have insured him if hed disclosed those two additional
claims. Its file shows that esure refunded Mr G as follows:
Mr G paid £1,347.35
esure deducted voidance fee £     26.00
esure deducted claim costs £     30.72
esure refunded £1,290.63
Mr G complained to esure that it wasnt treating him fairly. He said that he couldnt make a
claim on his GAP insurance until esure made an offer for his vehicle.
By a final response dated 21 September 2021, esure turned down the complaint.
Mr G got a letter dated 24 November 2021 from the insurer who had paid the claims dating
from October 2018. He sent that letter to esure, but it still said his policy was void. So Mr G
brought his complaint to us.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He referred to
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). He thought that
esure wouldve offered cover for Mr G without the named driver, and esure had said the
misrepresentation was careless. So we wouldnt say it was fair to avoid the policy. Instead
esure should amend the terms by removing the named driver from cover.
The investigator recommended that esure should:
1. reinstate Mr Gs policy but remove the named driver and deal with Mr Gs claim in
line with the policy terms and conditions;
2. recalculate Mr Gs premium without the named driver from the policy start date. If this 
changes the premium, they need to tell Mr G how much he owes them taking into 
account the voidance fee and claim deduction already applied;
3. remove the policy voidance from all internal and external databases and write to Mr 
G to confirm the voidance was esures error;
4. Mr G took new motor insurance with [a new insurer] in January 2022. He should 
provide [that new insurer] with a copy of the letter that confirms the policy voidance
has been removed by esure. If [that new insurer] arent prepared to amend and
backdate Mr Gs premiums based on the voidance being removed, esure will also
need to cover any increased cost to Mr Gs premiums due to the policy voidance with
his new insurer from inception to renewal;
5. pay £200.00 compensation to Mr G for the distress and inconvenience caused.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to esure on 9 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
It was fair and reasonable for esure to conclude that there had been a qualifying 
misrepresentation under CIDRA.
However, esure did offer cover to Mr G (a more long-standing licence holder) after he 
said he had the four claims. The evidence shows that esure wouldve offered cover 
for Mr G without his wife as a named driver.
Mr Gs wife was a less experienced driver, I would expect the policy to have cost less
without her as a named driver. But Mr G made a careless misrepresentation about 
her driving record. So I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to 
reduce the premium he agreed to pay.I was minded that Mr G brought trouble on himself by his careless misrepresentation. 
So I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to pay him 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr G or from esure, my provisional decision was that 
I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct esure Insurance Limited to:
1. not treat Mr Gs policy as void but to treat it as covering Mr G (but not his wife) to 
drive the vehicle at the time of the accident reported in July 2021; and
2. not charge a voidance fee; and
3. write a letter to Mr G (which he may show to any current or future insurer) saying that 
it voided his policy in error and it has removed any record of its voidance from any 
internal or external database to which it supplied such a record; and
4. deal with Mr Gs claim in line with the policy terms; and
5. add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on any payment it makes in settlement of 
the claim, from the date of the claim to the date of its settlement. If esure considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate; and
6. deduct the premium of £1,347.35 from any payment it makes in settlement of the 
claim; and
7. refund Mr G any amount of premium that the insurer under his policy from January 
2022 certifies as relating to the voidance and as non-refundable notwithstanding the 
letter saying that esure voided his policy in error and it has removed any record of its 
voidance from any internal or external database to which it supplied such a record.
Mr Gs response to the provisional decision was as follows:
So when l bought the insurance for my car; l thought they ask for total of the 
accident and l already told them everthing.
l didn't know that l had to devide accidents between myself and my wife. l just gave 
them total of accidents what we made together.
esure hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that I am troubled by the letter dated 24 November 2021 from the
insurer who had paid the claims dating from October 2018. Mr G relies on the sentence in
that letter that says that the only incident that occurred in October 2018 was on 2 October
and that the insurer had removed the record of the claim dated 13 October 2018.However, the letter says that a third party had made a claim that Mr Gs wife had hit the third
partys car on 2 October 2018 in a street. The insurer says that it had recordings of calls in
which Mr G made a claim that on 13 October 2018 an unknown third party had damaged his
vehicle outside his home  but in mid-September 2021 Mr G said he had made that claim
because he didnt have the details of the third party who his wife hit on 2 October 2018.
The letter of 24 November 2021 said that Mr G had fabricated the incident of 13 October
2018. The insurer asked him to repay its outlay on repair of Mr Gs vehicle and to the third
party. From that letter, I conclude that there had been a real incident and a third party claim
dating from 2 October 2018 and an additional claim from Mr G which he said dated from 13
October 2018. That reflects badly on Mr G.
From what Ive seen, in early September 2020, the comparison website asked Mr G a
number of questions.
From the policy schedule, I find that Mr G had said that his partner had held a full UK driving
licence for one year. If thats correct, she mustve been driving on a different licence in
October 2018.
From what Ive seen, the questions included one as follows:
Claims and convictions
In the last five years, have you had or caused any accidents, claims or damage
involving any motor vehicle (including cars, motorbikes and/or vans), even if no claim
was made and regardless of blame?
Im satisfied that the question was reasonably clear and specific.
From the policy schedule, I find that Mr G answered yes, and the website prompted him to
give details. He gave details of the four incidents or claims listed earlier in this decision.
Later the website asked the same question but in relation to the named driver. From the
policy schedule, I find that Mr G answered no.
He was saying that he had been involved in an accident in October 2018, but his wife had
not. And he was saying that she hadnt been involved in an accident in May 2019. I dont
consider that his answers were correct.
According to the letter dated 24 November 2021, Mr G knew his wife had been involved in
the accident on 2 October 2018 and he made the claim dating from 13 October 2018.
According to CUE, Mr Gs wife had been involved in an accident in May 2019, for which the
insurer paid out over £7,000.00 for her damage and a similar sum to the third party. So that
was a significant accident that I would expect Mr G to remember in September 2020.
So Im far from satisfied that Mr G took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to
esure when he took out the policy in September 2020.
From the evidence supplied by esure, Im satisfied that Mr Gs careless misrepresentation
made a difference to esure. If Mr G had disclosed the fact that his wife (who had a recently
issued UK driving licence) had had two claims, then esure wouldnt have offered the policy at
all. So Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for esure to conclude that there had been
a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.However, esure did offer cover to Mr G (a more long-standing licence holder) after he said
he had the four claims. The evidence shows that esure wouldve offered cover for Mr G
without his wife as a named driver.
Putting things right
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to:
1. not treat Mr Gs policy as void but to treat it as covering Mr G (but not his wife) to 
drive the vehicle at the time of the accident reported in July 2021;
2. not charge a voidance fee;
3. write a letter to Mr G (which he may show to any current or future insurer) saying that 
it voided his policy in error and it has removed any record of its voidance from any 
internal or external database to which it supplied such a record;
4. deal with Mr Gs claim in line with the policy terms;
5. add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on any payment it makes in settlement of
 the claim, from the date of the claim to the date of its settlement. If esure considers
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest,
it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate;
Mr Gs wife was a less-experienced driver, I would expect the policy to have cost less
without her as a named driver. But Mr G made a careless misrepresentation about her
driving record. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to reduce the premium he 
agreed to pay. Rather I find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to:
6. deduct the premium of £1,347.35 from any payment it makes in settlement of the 
claim;
Ive thought about Mr Gs policy from January 2022. I find it fair and reasonable to direct 
esure to:
7. refund Mr G any amount of premium that the insurer under that policy certifies as 
relating to the voidance and as non-refundable notwithstanding the letter saying that 
esure voided his policy in error and it has removed any record of its voidance from 
any internal or external database to which it supplied such a record;
Ive thought about the distress and inconvenience Mr G has suffered as a result of a
voidance Ive found unfair. But I consider that Mr G brought trouble on himself by his
careless misrepresentation. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to pay him 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct esure Insurance Limited to:
1. not treat Mr Gs policy as void but to treat it as covering Mr G (but not his wife) to drive the vehicle at the time of the accident reported in July 2021; and
2. not charge a voidance fee; and
3. write a letter to Mr G (which he may show to any current or future insurer) saying that 
it voided his policy in error and it has removed any record of its voidance from any 
internal or external database to which it supplied such a record; and
4. deal with Mr Gs claim in line with the policy terms; and
5. add simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on any payment it makes in settlement of 
the claim, from the date of the claim to the date of its settlement. If esure considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate; and
6. deduct the premium of £1,347.35 from any payment it makes in settlement of the 
claim; and
7. refund Mr G any amount of premium that the insurer under his policy from January 
2022 certifies as relating to the voidance and as non-refundable notwithstanding the 
letter saying that esure voided his policy in error and it has removed any record of its 
voidance from any internal or external database to which it supplied such a record.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman