DRN-3376663
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) was irresponsible to 
give her an overdraft given her financial circumstances at the time. She says that she has 
asked for help to repay the overdraft but that the assistance Halifax has offered has not been 
good enough.
What happened
Miss R complained to Halifax about the overdraft facility on her account. She says that her 
financial situation means Halifax should not have allowed her to borrow so much. Miss R 
says that when she asked for help Halifax didnt do enough to assist her, she says it only 
agreed to a reducing overdraft limit at £35 per month, and Miss R says this is unaffordable to 
her. She would like Halifax to do more to help her with her overdrawn balance. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, and as Miss R was dissatisfied with Halifaxs response 
she referred the complaint to our service.
Miss Rs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She explained that she felt 
Halifax had not been irresponsible to give Miss R the overdraft facility on her account. But 
she did feel that when Miss R contacted Halifax to ask for help in May 2021 it could have 
done more. So she recommended that Halifax refund to Miss R any charges or interest 
applied to her account from May 2021 onwards. 
Halifax agreed with the adjudicators findings, it confirmed it would be refunding the interest 
and charges to Miss R and would start the process of defaulting her account. Halifax also 
explained that if a default was ultimately registered then it would be backdated to August 
2021, to reflect what would have happened if Halifax had started taking action in May 2021. 
Miss R remained unhappy, so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that the offer Halifax has now made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint, Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss R 
could afford to repay before advancing any credit. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for 
example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the 
lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the 
borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it 
didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
With everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Halifax was not unreasonable to offer Miss R the 
overdraft facility it did, which she increased several times in March and April 2020 up to a 
maximum of £1,500. I say this because at that time Miss Rs account didnt show any clear 
signs of financial difficulty or that she was having problems managing her account, and the 
information she gave Halifax during her application (and the income and expenditure Halifax 
could see on her bank statements) suggested that the overdraft would be affordable to her at 
that time.
However, Halifax has an ongoing responsibility to ensure that an overdraft remains 
affordable. And when Miss R contacted Halifax in May 2021 to ask for help with her account, 
I agree with our adjudicator that Halifax should have done more to assist Miss R.
I say this because by this point, Miss R was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt 
maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. And Halifax own literature 
suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. 
I can see that when Miss R contacted Halifax in May 2021 it did refund around £100 of 
charges that had been applied to Miss Rs account in the previous couple of months. Halifax 
also put a hold on her account at that time to stop any further charges being applied for 90 
days. But I agree with out adjudicator that this short-term help didnt go far enough. I think 
Halifax should have realised by this stage that Miss R wasnt using her overdraft as 
intended, and that she might struggle to repay it within a reasonable amount of time, and so 
it shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
When the hold on Miss Rs account expired in August 2021 she once again began incurring 
charges, and while Halifax has refunded some of those already, I agree that it would be fair 
for it to refund the remaining charges applied since May 2021.
Halifax has confirmed that it is happy to refund these charges, and that it will use them to 
reduce Miss Rs outstanding balance. Halifax has also confirmed it will start the process of 
defaulting Miss Rs account, and I think that it also a fair way for the bank to proceed. Miss R 
has said the arrangement whereby her overdraft limit is reduced by £35 per month was 
unaffordable to her, and defaulting the account will allow the bank more flexibility in agreeing 
an affordable repayment plan with Miss R. It will also ensure that Miss Rs credit file shows 
an accurate record of her ability to repay this debt.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that what Halifax has offered to do in this case is fair and reasonable. So as per 
Halifaxs offer, I require it to:
- rework Miss Rs account to remove interest and charges applied since May 2021;
- issue a 30-day notice to remove the overdraft facility, this will give Miss R 30 days in 
which to find alternative banking or repay the remaining overdrawn balance;
- if the balance is not repaid Halifax will then issue a formal demand setting out its 
intention to close the account and issue a default;
- if the account is defaulted with an outstanding balance then Halifax should work with 
Miss R to agree a repayment plan that is affordable and sustainable;- any negative information, presently or subsequently recorded on Miss Rs credit file, 
should be backdated as though the process of removing the overdraft limit and 
defaulting the account began in May 2021. This would mean if a default is applied 
this would be backdated to August 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Rs complaint and direct Halifax Bank Plc to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman