DRN-3955717
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car he acquired with credit from Specialist Motor Finance Limited 
(SMF) wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr O entered into a credit agreement with SMF via an intermediary in September 2021 to 
acquire a used car. The credit to buy the car was granted by SMF under a hire purchase 
agreement meaning Mr O would own the car when the credit had been repaid. SMF was the 
owner until that point and Mr O was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As the owner, SMF 
was responsible for the quality of the car.
The cash price of the car was £8,495. Mr O paid a deposit of £1,000 and borrowed £7,495. 
The total payable under the agreement was £11,219. This was to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of £276 with a final payment of £286 (all figures rounded). I understand that the 
car was almost nine years old at the time and had travelled 84,329 miles. 
Mr O told SMF in early August 2022 that he was having problems with the car. The engine 
management light (EML) was on and the car was going into limp mode. Mr O had this looked 
into and provided invoices which showed that he had diagnostic tests carried out on the car 
and subsequent repairs. He complained to SMF that he was spending too much money on 
the car and wanted to return it.
SMF didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. It said that hed had the car a year and driven it over 
8,000 miles before these issues arose. It appreciated that hed had a disappointing 
experience but although hed provided invoices for the work carried out these didnt show 
that the problems were there when the car had been supplied. SMF concluded that it wasnt 
responsible for the repair and Mr O didnt have the option to return the car at this stage in the 
agreement.  
Mr O wasnt happy with this response and he referred his complaint to us. Having 
considered the evidence available, one of our investigators concluded that the problems with 
the car relating to the EML and the performance were likely to have been as a result of wear 
and tear and not because the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to him. This 
means that Mr O didnt have the option of returning the car to SMF or having the cost of 
repair covered. 
Mr O didnt agree with this recommendation. He didnt consider the problems he 
experienced to be due to wear and tear but as part of an ongoing series of problems which 
were there when the car was supplied to him. Mr O asked for his complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to decide and its come to me. My decision deals with Mr Os complaint about 
events in 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 is relevant here. This act implies a term into any 
contract to supply goods that those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory means 
what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account the description of the goods, the 
price and any other relevant circumstances. The quality of the goods includes their general 
state and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. The relevant circumstances in this 
complaint would include, for example, the nature of the fault and the age and mileage of the 
car.
The CRA gives customers solutions if they find themselves with faulty goods. They can 
reject the goods if the fault happens within 30 days, or have the goods repaired or replaced. 
Outside of this period the supplier has the chance to repair the goods before anything else 
happens. If this doesnt solve the problem and its found that the fault was there or 
developing when the goods were supplied, then a consumer might be entitled to other 
solutions such as a price reduction or a final right to reject the goods.
The faults Mr O is now complaining about manifested with the car more than 30 days after it 
was supplied. My first consideration is whether these faults were present or developing from 
the start or whether they arose later, for example through wear and tear caused by normal 
usage. If I find that the fault was present from the outset, does this mean that the car didnt 
conform to the contract at the time or, in other words, was of unsatisfactory quality? If so, 
what should happen now?  
Mr O described the problems he had in August 2022 as the EML being on and the car being 
in limp mode. He provided invoices for the diagnostic tests and repairs carried out on the car 
around that time. These show the mileage and the costs for replacement parts and labour. 
The paperwork mentions the EML and that the car isnt pulling. The invoices list abnormal 
system fault codes, and include the following replacements: tyres, rear brake pads and 
discs, front axle link rods, air filter and air hose pipe, the radio and the vehicles special 
control unit. 
Im satisfied that there were indeed problems with the car at that time which Mr O had 
repaired. However, as an independent inspection wasnt carried out on the car to investigate 
these issues, it is difficult to now determine whether or not these faults were present when 
Mr O acquired the car. 
Mr O told us that hed had problems with the car soon after he acquired it in 2021 and it was 
repaired by the dealer. He feels that the 2022 problems were part of a series of issues with 
the car and altogether point to the car not being of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to him. I can understand Mr Os perspective on this but I cant reasonably conclude that the 
2022 issues were present or developing when the car was supplied simply because hed had 
earlier issues with the car. I did consider whether these incidences were linked, for example 
if the 2022 faults were down to an earlier failed repair. However, I havent seen any evidence 
of this from Mr O or an independent inspection. 
Even if I were to conclude that the faults Mr O experienced in 2022 were there or developing 
at the onset of the agreement, it doesnt automatically follow that the car was therefore of 
unsatisfactory quality or unfit for purpose when it was supplied. These faults could have 
been as a result of normal wear and tear and not unexpected for the car in question. 
The car was nine years old and had travelled over 84,000 miles when Mr O acquired it. I 
think its fair to say that this car might have needed repair or maintenance work sooner than 
a newer or less used model. I understand Mr O drove the car over 8,000 miles in the first year. Having considered this carefully, Ive concluded that the issues he experienced with 
the car in 2022 were most likely due to wear and tear. And, given the age and mileage of the 
car, I cant say these were faults which were wholly unexpected and outside the likely range 
or number of issues such a car might have. 
I cant therefore find that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to Mr O. This 
means that Mr O doesnt have recourse to the options available to him under the CRA such 
as having the car repaired by SMF at no cost to him or rejecting the car if that repair doesnt 
solve the problem. I am sorry that Mr O has had a poor experience with his car and that I 
cant provide the outcome he was hoping for. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im not upholding Mr Os complaint about Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman