DRN-4171072
The complaint and background
Miss O complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund money she lost to an investment
scam.
In summary, this complaint concerns a series of payments that Miss O attempted to make in
January 2022, towards what she thought was a genuine investment venture. All of the
instructed payments were intended to go Moonpay.com, a genuine currency exchange
platform. At first, Miss O attempted to make payments using her Monzo debit card  but
these were rejected by Moonpay. So, she went on to make four faster payments, amounting
to approximately £7,500, which successfully went to the platform.
Miss O made the payments because she thought a long-term friend and ex work colleague
was recommending an individual that she herself had used to make a substantial profit from
investing in cryptocurrency. This companion gave Miss O the contact details of this so-called
investment mentor, who Ill call D. Having been assured that her friend had done well from
working with D, Miss O followed his instructions having struck a conversation by sharing
messages.
In order to begin investing, D told Miss O she first needed to purchase cryptocurrency, which
would then allow her to make a profit from trading. Happy with this, Miss O purchased
cryptocurrency from Moonpay. Once she had the cryptocurrency, she was directed by D to
send it onwards from her Moonpay account to an online cryptocurrency wallet address that
D provided to her.
At first, Miss O was content with the arrangement. However, when she subsequently tried to
withdraw her earnings, Miss O was told by D that she needed to pay hefty commission fees
to access the funds. D assured Miss O that this was all normal, and Miss Os friend also
appeased her concerns about paying so much, explaining that she too had to do so before
she got hold of her profits.
Miss O ended up borrowing money from her family to pay the alleged fees (which formed
part of the four payments described). She later realised that this was all an elaborate scam,
and that there was in fact no investment or trades being placed, but she had instead sent 
money to scammers in the form of cryptocurrency, with D being in on the illicit scheme.
Miss O wanted to retrieve what she had lost, so she raised a complaint with Monzo. To
begin with, she told the bank that she didnt recognise the transactions, and that her account
had been compromised. Monzo therefore began investigating on the basis that Miss O
hadnt authorised the payments. 
But then Miss O later admitted that she had sent the money herself to Moonpay, as part of 
the investment scam. She cited that, nonetheless, Monzo ought to have protected her from 
being scammed.
Upon reviewing what happened, the bank declined to reimburse Miss O; it said that it had
made no error by processing the payments. It also took the decision to close her account,
which it explained was in keeping with its terms and conditions. Unhappy with how Monzo
had handled her fraud claim, Miss O raised a complaint.
Upon bringing the dispute to this service, one of our investigators considered that Monzo
should reimburse most of what Miss O lost, in compliance with the obligations it should
follow. And Miss O should bear a deduction in this award, considering what transpired.
Monzo disagrees with this recommendation.
Because Monzo is not in agreement, the matter has been escalated to me to decide.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 5 May 2023. Ive copied the provision 
findings section of this decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats left for me to determine here is whether Monzo ought to refund any of Miss 
Os financial losses that came as a result of an investment scam. The account 
closure is not a point which our investigator specifically addressed in his assessment, 
given the submissions that Miss O has made.
But for completeness, I will add that I do not judge Monzos decision to close the 
account as a breach of the agreement in place; the immediate closure of Miss Os 
account appears in keeping with the terms and conditions in place at the time. So, 
unless my provisional findings are persuasively rebutted on this point, I intend to 
focus my determination on whether Monzo can fairly and reasonably be ordered to 
reimburse all (or some) of what Miss O lost in January 2022.
I know my proposed decision will be disappointing for Miss O. This is a finely 
balanced case and Id like to assure her that Ive duly considered everything thats 
been provided. But on account of the evidence, Im currently not persuaded that 
Monzo ought to refund the transactions in dispute here. I say so for the reasons that 
follow.
relevant considerations
Despite what she initially reported to the bank when first raising this fraud claim, its 
since been accepted by both Miss O and Monzo that the disputed payments were all 
authorised by Miss O for the purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs) in force at the time. Its common ground that these should be regarded as 
authorised payments, even though Miss O was the victim of a sophisticated scam.
As a starting position, Monzo has an obligation to follow a consumers payment 
instructions; pursuant to the PSRs and the terms and conditions of the account, it has 
a duty to fulfil payment requests correctly and promptly so that legitimate payments 
are made properly.To that end, even though its not in question that Miss O was tricked into sending the 
money by scammers, because she authorised these payments, she starts off on the 
back-foot when it comes to getting the money returned as Monzo was following a 
valid instruction.
Still, there are some situations where banks  taking into account the relevant rules, 
codes and best practice  ought to have been on alert or notice that something 
wasnt right or should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding a 
transaction before making the payment.
In some circumstances, this might warrant an intervention from a bank, to pose
reasonably probing questions as a means to guard against the risk of financial harm 
from fraud (amongst other things). Accordingly, Ive looked into what this means for 
this case and whether Monzo should have done more to prevent these disputed 
payments Miss O made.
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
So far as I am reasonably aware, the payments in question were made to Moonpay 
(or its subsidiaries). I therefore plan to reach my findings on the basis that the 
transactions Miss O would like returned initially went to a legitimate firm, where she 
held an account that she used to direct the funds to a separate cryptocurrency wallet 
held by the scammers. For the avoidance of any doubt, there is no indication that 
Moonpay was involved in this fraudulent scheme, other than its exchange platform 
was used to facilitate Miss Os transfers.
Under the circumstances, Im minded to conclude that Monzo ought to have taken 
steps to question Miss O about the purpose of the first of the four faster payments. 
Miss O was transferring money in from other account(s) held in her name, along with 
attempting multiple card payments to Moonpay. She then switched to a different 
payment method to remit money to the same destination  all within a short span of 
time.
To put it another way, there was a lot of toing and froing which represented unusual 
and uncharacteristic behaviour for the account. It conflicted with Miss Os typical 
pattern of spending. Not least, because there wasnt an apparent reason for why a 
procession of payment increments were needed, given all of the instructed 
transactions were intended for the same place.
With all this in mind, Im satisfied Monzo ought to have intervened with appropriate
questioning before any of the faster payments (which actually debited Miss Os 
account) were allowed to be let go. Indeed, considering its representations following 
our investigators assessment, it strikes me that Monzo is somewhat accepting that it 
should have taken such steps in response to concerns that the bank identified.
causation
Having concluded that Monzo ought to have questioned Miss O, next I need to 
determine what difference (if any) such an intervention wouldve made. So, would the 
loss being claimed for have occurred but for Monzo taking appropriate action? This is 
otherwise referred to as causation.Ive thought carefully about what sort of questions Monzo shouldve reasonably 
asked Miss O. Finding out details such as who the money is being paid to and why is 
accepted good practice in the banking industry, because it generally affords bank 
staff a more informed position when deciding whether to proceed with the payment 
instruction without further enquiry. With that being the case, I find it would have been 
proportionate for Monzo to have asked Miss O the purpose behind making this first 
faster payment to Moonpay.
Its not in dispute that Miss O was comfortable that her payments were going to 
Moonpay in the first instance. D had convinced her that this was perfectly normal and 
just what was needed to begin investing. I find it likely that, had bank staff checked 
that Miss O was aware she was sending money to this company, she wouldve been 
able to answer without sufficient concern  where the money was going was not a 
surprise to Miss O.
Similarly, had Monzo questioned why she was paying Moonpay, Im not persuaded 
that Miss Os answer would have been overly disconcerting for the bank. After all, we 
know Miss O decided to start investing having been recommended by a long-term 
friend of ten years or so, whom she previously worked with. By her own admission, 
she completely trusted that this companion had prospered from the programme and 
was in frequent contact with her throughout the material time.
Its not in question that Miss O went with this supposed investment opportunity 
specifically because word-of-mouth had given her assurance in Ds ability to make 
her money. Its since come to light that Miss Os acquaintance and former 
colleagues social media account (which Miss O used to message her on) had been 
hacked as part of the scam. Be that as it may, at the time, Miss O was acting on the 
basis of a longstanding friends advice, whom she had met in person and known for a 
number of years. I find this crucial, as recommendations (especially when shared 
amongst friends) tends to add trust to the service being rendered.
Whats more, Miss O has provided screenshots of the conversations she shared with 
D, whereby its evident that she posed a number of questions about the process and 
the risks involved. Miss O was actively liaising with D throughout each step, 
demonstrating that her concerns about being able to withdraw money were placated 
on a few separate occasions by persuasive coaching by the individual.
By way of example, when the attempted card payments to Moonpay were 
unsuccessful, D told Miss O to try different exchange platforms and try to pay in 
smaller increments  which she agreed to do. Again, we know that Miss O was also 
in contact with her friend (albeit it sounds like this was a scammer impersonating the 
individual), meaning that even if she had checked in about whether she should still 
go ahead, it seems probable Miss O would not have received a compelling reason to 
be swayed from her plans.
This is reinforced by the evidence Miss O has provided, which show she thought her
trustworthy friend was telling her that Ds instructions were all normal and acts they 
had taken themselves before being able to access profits made. It follows that, even 
if a conversation with bank staff developed onto whether there was another party 
present in the transaction, Im minded to decide that Miss O would have shown 
assuredness and not become incredulous about making payment to Moonpay.Furthermore, we know that the day before making the first faster payment, Miss O 
had used another bank account she holds with a separate provider to remit money to 
Moonpay. Consequently, from Monzos standpoint, this would not have been a 
consumer that had been cold called or targeted by persons unknown  but rather, 
Miss O was acting on a recommendation from a close friend, and was using a 
company (i.e. Moonpay) with which she had previous and very recent experience 
with.
When weighing up causation, I must also bear in mind the causative relevance some 
of Miss Os acts and omissions have. She has conceded that she was not entirely 
honest with Monzo when first raising this matter. Miss O admits that she told bank 
staff that she had not authorised the payments, and then later revised her version of 
events. In a similar fashion, Miss O has made this office aware that she was not 
upfront with her family about the purpose of her asking for a loan.
I cannot ignore the impact this may have had if Monzo had posed certain lines of 
enquiry. With respect, I have to consider how Miss O may have answered questions 
regarding what she was doing, as some of her behaviour suggests she may not have 
given an entirely accurate picture of what was happening.
Besides this, when experiencing difficulty with paying Moonpay, its evident Miss O 
agreed to try different means of ensuring the funds would be able to be 
traded/invested. Including, trying a different currency exchange platform as Ive 
mentioned, together with different accounts she held with separate payment 
providers to Monzo  indicating she would have always found a way to send this 
money, be it through her account with Monzo or otherwise.
All of this casts significant doubts on causation. I make my determination on the 
balance of probabilities. And for me to accept her side of things and uphold the 
complaint, I would need to place considerable evidential weight on Miss Os 
testimony. But in fairness, parts of her statement are self-contradictory regarding 
what are critical elements to a case of this kind.
Ultimately, I am not satisfied that  but for proportionate questioning from Monzo  
the scam wouldve been stopped, and Miss Os losses prevented. As things stand, 
Im not convinced that due questioning from Monzo would have unearthed what was 
really happening, whether that intervention came at the point of the first faster 
payment or the transactions that followed.
Finally, once the payments were sent to Moonpay, we know that Miss O moved the 
funds onwards  thereby prejudicing any recovery attempt by Monzo. In other 
words, once these authorised payments had left Miss Os Monzo account, it seems 
highly unlikely that her bank could retrieve them. Hence, why I intend to determine 
that Monzo made no error in respect of trying to reclaim what was sent.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, Im minded to not uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
In response to my provisional findings, Miss O asked this office to reconsider the proposed 
outcome by looking again at the evidence already put forward. Miss O reiterated her 
innocence when falling victim to this scam and did not submit any new pieces of evidence, 
other than these comments. Monzo did not respond to my decision. Accordingly, I can proceed with my consideration of 
the complaint. 
 
Now that I have Miss Os final submission, and both parties have had the opportunity to 
make representations, the case has been returned to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss O for her most recent submission and can assure her that Ive carefully 
considered these comments alongside all of the other evidence. Whilst I dont doubt that she 
was acting because of the instructions she was given, I must nonetheless work on the 
balance of probabilities when weighing up whether Monzo taking further action or steps 
would have prevented her loss (i.e. as per the causation section of my provisional decision). 
Ultimately, I remain of the judgment that, even with due intervention from the bank, the 
payments towards this scam would probably not have been averted. And in fairness, I have 
not been provided any compelling new evidence to persuade me otherwise. 
It follows that the way in which I was minded to decide the complaint has not changed; 
overall, I do not find it fair or reasonable for Monzo to reimburse Miss Os loss here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and before, my final decision is that I do not uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman