DRN-3106828
The complaint
Mr T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop Direct) 
irresponsibly gave him a running account credit facility that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 5 March 2014, Mr T applied for a credit account with Shop Direct. He was given an 
initial credit limit of £750. The credit limit was not increased during the life of the account. 
Shop Direct told us that in 2015 the account had arrears and a default and was sold to an 
external debt collection agency on 8 August 2015. 
In 2020, Mr T complained to Shop Direct to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr T didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
Mr Ts complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Shop 
Direct has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate 
checks before providing Mr T with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries 
would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limit was unaffordable. 
I say this because the credit was provided when there was no recent adverse information 
on Mr Ts credit file. There is some evidence that Mr T was borrowing heavily from pay 
day loan providers at the end of 2012, and that some of those led to defaults. But the 
credit report suggests that Mr Ts finances after that period and in the more than 12 
months until the time in question, were more under control. And the credit report from that 
time suggests that in March 2014, Mr T had no CCJs against him, that there were no 
other accounts opened in the 12 months prior and there was no evidence of any credit 
searches in the year before. And the initial credit limit was reasonably modest, the 
maximum monthly payments for that credit would have been relatively modest and Mr Ts 
statements show that his income was not modest. 
Mr T has given us copies of his bank statements from around the time of the application 
which suggested he was still borrowing from payday lenders. However, Shop Directs 
checks didnt show these and it would be unfair to say they ought to have known about 
them. Further, they werent required, nor would it have been proportionate for them, to 
have reviewed his payslips before lending to him.
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that a more thorough affordability check would have led Shop Direct to 
think that the credit limit it provided Mr T was unreasonable.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman