DRN-3816691
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLF) would not refund her for 
a purchase she made using her credit card.
What happened
Mrs M bought a flight using her JLF credit card but it was cancelled because of the global 
Covid-19 pandemic.
 
Mrs M was only offered a credit voucher by the supplier so she contacted JLF to get a 
refund.
JLF did not refund Mrs M. In summary, it says that 
 Mrs M did not provide it all the relevant documentation to raise a chargeback in time 
and a chargeback would fail in any event as she had accepted a credit voucher
 there is no claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) as 
Mrs M has accepted a voucher and because she booked through an agent there is 
no debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for a claim in respect of the airline which 
supplied the flights
JLF did however pay Mrs M £50 for delays in getting back to her about the dispute.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said, in summary:
 by the time Mrs M returned the dispute forms to JLF the chargeback was out of time
 the booking was made through an agent and the supplier was a third-party airline 
which means the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement was not in place for a Section 
75 claim
 the £50 paid for the service failings was fair and reasonable
Mrs M asked for the matter to be looked at by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear Mrs M had her flights cancelled as a result of the global pandemic. 
However, when looking at what JLF should fairly do I consider its obligations in respect of 
the specific card protections available  in this case these are chargeback and Section 75.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme is one way which JLF might have been able to recover funds for 
Mrs M. However, it is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply. I have considered the 
relevant chargeback scheme rules and any additionally published guidance to decide if JLF 
has acted fairly here.
JLF says it did not raise a chargeback because Mrs M did not provide it with the relevant 
information it needed. It says that to date she has not done so and now it is too late for it to 
raise a chargeback. But from what I can see this isnt fair.
The relevant chargeback rule here relates to goods and services which have not been 
provided. The rule says that in order to raise the chargeback what is required is a 
description of the cardholders complaint in sufficient detail to enable all the parties to 
understand the dispute. From the information JLF has provided Mrs M appears to have 
returned a dispute form which clearly states that she has not received the service she paid 
for and confirms she tried to resolve the matter with the merchant first. Furthermore, the 
dispute form appears to be accompanied by several pages of email correspondence from 
the supplier indicating that the service was in fact not received and vouchers were offered as 
a resolution. I think from what Mrs M provided the nature of the dispute is sufficiently clear. I 
also note that right at the bottom of this email chain appears to be the booking confirmation. 
I can see from its system notes JLF appear to have wanted some other information  but as I 
have already said  it had enough information to satisfy the chargeback rule here.
I also note the initial outbound flight was due to be provided on 13 May 2020, and in 
accordance with the relevant rule the chargeback had to be submitted within 120 calendar 
days. Mrs M returned her dispute details to JLF on 4 September 2020.
So I think that Mrs M had provided enough information in sufficient time for JLF to raise a 
chargeback for the full amount on her behalf. I also note that even if this were not the case, 
JLF has not sent in persuasive evidence that when it provided Mrs M the dispute documents 
she requested on 8 August 2020 that it sufficiently informed her of what she had to provide 
and the timeframe which she needed to do this in for a chargeback to be possible.
So all things considered I think JLF is responsible for the failure to raise a chargeback. So I 
need to think about the likely consequences of this error.
I have thought about whether the chargeback would have likely succeeded. I have taken 
note of why JLF said it wouldnt (regarding the acceptance of a voucher). But I dont think 
there is persuasive evidence Mrs M accepted a voucher  the email she sent to the booking 
agent indicates she was upset only a voucher was being offered and requested a full refund. 
I also note that the chargeback rules do not state the offer of a voucher prevents Mrs M from 
claiming a full refund. So all things considered I think that Mrs M had a strong reason for a 
successful chargeback here. I think had it been raised it would have been more likely to 
succeed than not. So considering JLF has deprived Mrs M of this opportunity to get her 
money back in this particular case it should fairly provide her with a full refund of the amount 
paid on the card including interest from the latest date that it could have raised the 
chargeback to the date of settlement. 
Section 75
I will deal with this briefly as considering my findings above I think it is unnecessary to go into 
great detail.Section 75 in certain circumstances will allow Mrs M to make a claim against JLF for any 
breach of contract of misrepresentation by a supplier of goods and services paid for using 
the credit card. However, certain technical criteria apply as to whether a Section 75 claim is 
valid.
In this case JLF say there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for a valid Section 
75 claim because of the involvement of a travel agent that received the credit card payment. 
However, although I agree that there is no claim in respect of the actions of the airline 
directly I do think there is a claim in respect of the contractual obligations of the travel agent 
which supplied the tickets.
Briefly considering the terms and conditions of the travel agent I think it is arguable whether 
or not it has a contractual responsibility to refund in these circumstances. However, because 
of my findings on chargeback I dont consider it necessary to say more on this point.
Compensation
JLF acknowledge Mrs M had some issues sending further information to it. And that she had 
also complained about certain delays in relation to her complaint. From what I can see from 
the system notes she said a manager took too long to get back to her  and she was 
unhappy with how long it took to get an answer on her dispute. I understand that JLF has 
paid her £50 for this as a gesture of goodwill.
I can see there were some service failings here. It appears JLF did not give Mrs M a clear 
and timely answer to her dispute. I also dont understand why JLF was still requesting 
information from Mrs M about the chargeback dispute in October 2020 when it appeared to 
have already timed out.
I dont know exactly what happened here from a customer service point of view  some of 
the information I have is limited in relation to how long managers took to get back to her for 
example. But from what I can see I dont think the £50 compensation is enough when 
considering all the things I have mentioned above. So I am awarding Mrs M an additional 
£100 which would take the compensation for distress and inconvenience to £150 in total. 
My provisional decision
I direct John Lewis Financial Services Limited to refund Mrs M the £930.21 she paid on her 
card plus simple 8% yearly interest from the 10 September 2020 to the date of settlement. It 
should also pay her an additional £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I asked the parties for their comments. JLF had nothing further to add. Mrs M said she would 
ask that any payment is paid to her directly rather than onto her credit card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has added anything that gives me cause to alter my provisional findings as set 
out above. I still consider these to be fair and reasonable. I also think it fair that JLF pay the 
refund to Mrs M directly as she has requested.Putting things right
JLF should put things right based on my direction set out below. It should also let Mrs M 
nominate her own bank account for the payment of the settlement.
My final decision
I direct John Lewis Financial Services Limited to refund Mrs M the £930.21 she paid on her 
card plus simple 8% yearly interest from 10 September 2020 to the date of settlement. It 
should also pay her an additional £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
If JLF considers it necessary to deduct tax from the interest award it should provide Mrs M 
with a certificate of tax deduction so she may claim a refund from HMRC if applicable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman