DRN-2557501
The complaint
Mr and Ms M have complained about service issues with Monzo Bank Ltd related to a 
payment they made from their account.
What happened
Mr and Ms M made an online purchase and the funds were debited from their joint Monzo 
current account. The order was unsuccessful so Ms M contacted the retailer who told her to 
check her bank statement as the money should have reverted back into her account. 
The funds hadnt been returned so Mr and Ms M contacted Monzo and asked them to refund 
the payment upfront. Monzo said that they would need to raise a dispute with Mastercard as 
it was not their policy to refund payments up front and that it could take up to three months to 
resolve this.
Mr and Ms M complained to Monzo as they felt the payment should have been refunded up 
front. Monzo upheld the complaint as they said they had followed their procedures but they 
would be unable to complete their investigation within the three month timeframe, so 
credited £30 into Mr Ms account.
Mr and Ms M brought their complaint to our service as they werent told why there were 
delays in returning their money and werent told exactly how long it would take. 
The funds were returned to the account before our investigator could give a view of the 
complaint. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint as they said that Monzos procedure 
was to raise disputes with Mastercard and they had followed their procedure, however, as 
there was a delay in registering the dispute then Monzos payment of £30 was fair.
Mr M disagreed the compensation was sufficient as he said he had to constantly chase up 
Monzo and complained about the customer service they had received so asked for the 
complaint to be looked at by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Ms M disputed the payment made to the retailer here, Monzo raised this as a 
chargeback through the card provider (Mastercard). Monzo have explained that they aim to 
resolve disputes like this one within three months. While I can understand it would be 
frustrating to wait so long for money to be refunded when the order wasnt processed, 
Monzo correctly explained the relevant timeframes here, which can be this long due to the 
nature of a chargeback and the different parties involved.
I think the issue is that Monzo didnt raise the dispute when they should have done. They 
say this was due to backlogs. It was raised over two months after, when Mr M chased them 
up. So, the right thing to do here would have been for Monzo to apologise, recognise the 
impact this had and explain what the actual situation was.
Thats what Monzo did. They apologised for their delay and to recognise the impact they 
credited £30 to Mr Ms account. This is what Id expect to see here. I know that Mr and Ms M 
feel that the customer service Monzo provided was poor and that they shouldnt have had to 
chase them up as they did. I dont think theres any disputing that Monzo shouldve acted 
sooner here, but in the circumstances, I think that what Monzo has done is fair to put things 
right. I realise that Mr and Ms M may feel like the compensation amount is too low here  but 
given that eventually things were put right and they got the payment back I think its a fair 
amount to compensate them for the inconvenience they had to go through to chase Monzo.
So overall, it follows that Im not going to require them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman