DRN-2047405
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined their 
request for a new interest rate deal on their mortgage. 
More broadly, Mr and Mrs F say that errors by the bank have caused them financial difficulty, 
and that its not done enough to help them during this time.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F purchased their current property with the help of a mortgage from NatWest in 
2017. They borrowed £935,000 on a repayment basis over a 30-year term. They had a two-
year fixed interest rate of 1.67%, which was due to run until the end of August 2019. Under 
the fixed rate deal, Mr and Mrs Fs contractual monthly payment (CMP) was around £3,300.
Mr and Mrs F began to experience difficulty in making their mortgage payments in early 
2019. Initially, Mrs F asked NatWest if she could consolidate her other debts within some 
additional borrowing under the mortgage  but this was declined. She also asked that 
NatWest capitalise the arrears that had accumulated by May 2019, but the bank said this 
could only be done when the full CMP had been made for 12 consecutive months.
Mr and Mrs F later asked to switch the mortgage to an interest only basis and to switch to a 
new interest rate deal. But NatWest declined this, as it said the loan to value (LTV) ratio was 
too high for an interest only conversion. And it said a rate switch wouldnt be possible either.
Mrs F didnt think NatWests valuation of the property was correct. She and Mr F had 
recently had valuation reports carried out that showed a much higher value. But they were 
told that to challenge the banks figure, theyd need to request (and pay for) a new valuation 
to be carried out. That would cost around £1,500. 
Mrs F complained. She urged the bank to either rely on the recent reports shed obtained or 
cover the £1,500 fee. She said the bank was blocking her and Mr F from doing anything to 
help them retain her family home  it wouldnt agree any changes to the mortgage, and they 
couldnt move elsewhere.
NatWest didnt change its stance. Like many lenders, it relied on the House Price Index 
(HPI)  a tool produced and updated by the Office for National Statistics  in maintaining the 
valuation figure. It rejected the valuation reports that Mrs F had presented, on the basis that 
the bank hadnt instructed them.
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage subsequently reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR) on 
1 September 2019 after their fixed rate expired. So they were then charged interest at 
4.24%, with the CMP increasing to just over £4,500.
As they remained unable to agree a way forward with NatWest, Mr and Mrs F referred their 
complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. She thought it was 
reasonable for NatWest to rely on its own system for valuing mortgaged properties, and that Mr and Mrs F had a fair means of challenging that if they wished. She didnt think it was 
unfair for the bank to have followed its own criteria when assessing Mr and Mrs Fs request 
for an interest only conversion. And she didnt think this change wouldve made the 
mortgage affordable for Mr and Mrs F anyway, as the payments theyd been making were far 
below those needed to cover the interest. So she didnt recommend that NatWest do 
anything further.
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept our investigators view. They said that a sanction marker had 
been applied to their account, which was stopping NatWest from offering them a new rate of 
any other help. They said that with a new fixed rate, their CMP couldve been lowered to 
around £960  which they wouldve been able to afford. They wanted the bank to agree a 
new fixed rate and backdate it to August 2019  writing off the additional amounts charged 
since and correcting the adverse information on their credit record. So they asked that an 
ombudsman review their complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
While the complaint awaited review, Mr and Mrs F applied again for a new interest rate deal 
but were declined. They raised a further complaint about the decision to decline this due to 
the marker on their account. But NatWest said such markers were automatically applied 
according to how an account was managed, and couldnt be ignored. So it stood by its 
decision. 
However NatWest reviewed things again in April and overturned its decision. It agreed a new 
interest rate of 1.96%, bringing the CMP back down to around £3,450. And it then agreed to 
backdate the new rate to 6 September 2019, writing off around £13,000 of the additional 
interest from the outstanding mortgage balance.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Fs complaint last month, setting out why I 
didnt think it should be upheld and inviting final submissions from both parties. 
I said:
The new interest rate product
NatWests internal account notes show that Mrs F was in touch with the bank about the 
possibility of a new interest rate deal as early as May 2019, ahead of their existing deal 
expiring in August. The notes show that she was told then that NatWest cannot assist. 
Mrs F made further requests in September, but was told the same thing. In response to the 
subsequent complaints, NatWest has confirmed this was due to a marker applied to the 
account.
Given that NatWest has now overruled its previous decisions to not only offer Mr and Mrs F 
a new preferential interest rate product but also to backdate it to the expiry of their previous 
one, I cant see why this approach couldnt have been taken at the time. Ive asked the bank 
to comment as to whether it accepts it has made errors in this respect but its declined to 
answer. So based on what Ive seen so far, I think that the bank couldve chosen to offer a 
new rate to take effect when their existing deal expired.
At the same time, there are other factors for a lender to consider before choosing to offer a 
new rate to a borrower  particularly when they are experiencing financial difficulties, as Mr 
and Mrs F were. Its not always appropriate to fix borrowers into a new deal in such 
circumstances, as theres an increased likelihood of having to repay the mortgage early 
(either by the borrower choosing to sell, or the bank taking the property into possession). Interest rate deals typically carry significant early repayment charges (ERCs), which would 
then be added to the debt if the mortgage was settled early.
In Mr and Mrs Fs case, while the rate change obviously wouldve brought their monthly 
payments down sooner I cant see that it wouldve actually made the mortgage affordable for 
them. Their conversations with NatWest around the time suggest they had very little money 
 if any  to put towards their mortgage payments. Notes of a conversation with Mrs F in 
early September 2019 in which the bank discussed their income and expenditure recorded a 
deficit of around £8,000 a month  a consequence of significant liabilities elsewhere. 
That was borne out by the payments that Mr and Mrs F managed to make to the account 
from then on: no payment in September, £100 in October, £100 in November. So I cant see 
that the new rate would actually have made much of a difference to things, as even under a 
preferential interest rate deal Mr and Mrs Fs CMP was still around £3,500. And given the 
size of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage balance, fixing into a new deal was likely to carry a 
substantial ERC (a standard charge would be 2% of the balance, meaning an ERC of 
around £18,000). I also note they were considering selling and downsizing around the time. 
So even setting aside the issues with the account marker  and that the bank could have 
chosen to offer a new Mr and Mrs F a new deal sooner  I wouldnt necessarily have found 
that it should have done so, had it not subsequently agreed to the switch earlier this year.
In any event, in backdating the rate to early September 2019, NatWest has put Mr and Mrs F 
in the most favourable position they could possibly have been in if it had given them a new 
deal at the earliest opportunity. So Im not currently intending to direct NatWest to take any 
further action in this respect. 
Mrs F has queried the refund applied to the account in light of the backdated rate. NatWest 
credited around £13,000, which Mrs F says is about £4,000 short. But the banks figures look 
right to me. Mrs F seems to have compared the amount of interest she was paying under her 
old rate with the amount she ended up paying under the SVR. Thats not the right 
comparison. The new rate was higher than the old one, and the balance on which interest 
was being charged ended up being higher too by virtue of the arrears. I think the new rate 
meant Mr and Mrs F were charged around £1700 less in interest each month. That was 
backdated for a period covering eight monthly payments (September to April, inclusive). So 
that means around £13,000 in all. But if Mrs F wishes to submit some more detailed 
calculations as to why she considers the refund to be incorrect, Ill take these into account. 
Likewise it would be helpful if NatWest could provide a breakdown as to how the refund was 
calculated, so that I can review this in more detail before making a final decision.
Mrs F wants NatWest to clear the arrears and remove record of missed payments from her 
and Mr Fs credit files. She says that the mortgage only fell into arrears after the bank failed 
to provide them with a new rate. But as Ive touched on above, I dont think thats quite 
accurate. While those two things might have coincided  the switch to the higher SVR and 
the significantly reduced payments  I cant say that the former caused the latter. 
As Ive said, even if a new rate had been put in place Mr and Mrs F wouldve needed to pay 
around £3,500 a month. But they only paid a total of £200 to the account between 
September 2019 and January 2020. So I dont think the arrears are a consequence of 
NatWests errors. Its removed the additional amounts that were charged, so the arrears that 
remain are amounts that Mr and Mrs F legitimately owe. And as appropriate payments 
werent made when they fell due, theres no basis on which I could fairly require the missed 
payments to be removed from Mr and Mrs Fs credit files. 
The request to switch to interest onlyNatWest declined Mr and Mrs Fs request to switch the mortgage from a repayment to an 
interest only basis because of the LTV ratio. It said it only considered such requests where 
the mortgage amount was no higher than 75% of the property value. I think its reasonable 
for NatWest to have assessed the request in line with its own criteria, and this particular 
feature of those criteria doesnt strike me as unreasonable. Evidently it provides the bank 
with a level of security in the event of any fluctuations in the property price, given that it will 
likely be the sale of the property that is ultimately used to repay the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Fs concern is that in fact, their property was worth much more than NatWests 
valuation of it. But I think it was reasonable for NatWest to rely on the HPI figure in the first 
instance, as is common practice across the industry. This gives a consistent method to 
assess such requests.
NatWest also has an appeal process  so it was open to Mr and Mrs F to challenge the 
figure if they considered it inaccurate. That process required Mr and Mrs F to pay for an up-
to-date valuation to be carried out by one of the banks approved surveyors. Again, such a 
process isnt uncommon and I dont think I could fairly require the bank to accept any 
valuation provided to it in making changes to the original mortgage agreement.
So here, I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably in declining to assess the LTV ratio on 
the basis of a third-party valuation that had been carried out almost a year earlier.
NatWests broader treatment of the account
Mr and Mrs F have expressed their unhappiness at not being able to make any changes to 
the account while theyve been experiencing some financial difficulty. I note that Mrs F has 
made a number of other requests in addition to those covered in some detail above, 
including a request to consolidate arrears.
In reviewing the internal notes on the account I can see that NatWest took details of Mr and 
Mrs Fs personal and financial circumstances in assessing what assistance it could offer. 
Unfortunately, the sizeable deficit between Mr and Mrs Fs income and their expenditure 
meant the bank concluded there werent any adjustments to the account that would help. 
There were no funds with which to make reduced payments that might have been available 
under, for example, a payment arrangement, term extension or temporary interest only 
concession. So I dont think theres anything more that NatWest ought to have suggested, or 
done, in this respect.
With regard to the request to consolidate arrears, for much the same reasons I dont think 
this was unfairly declined either. This would just have delayed the problem  very slightly  
in that while consolidating arrears would have cleared the missed payments, it wouldve 
increased the balance and therefore the CMP. So the situation wouldve just arisen again. 
NatWest, like most lenders, requires a certain number of payments to be maintained before 
it will consider consolidating arrears  showing that the payments are manageable for the 
borrower. I dont think thats unreasonable.
When the complaint was originally raised, Mr and Mrs F were also looking to port (transfer) 
their mortgage to a new property  and were unhappy that the bank wasnt willing to facilitate 
that. I understand that theyre no longer looking to go ahead with that. I cant see that a full 
application was ever submitted, so there is little for me to look into here. But on the face of it, 
again it seems unlikely that the bank would look to endorse a new mortgage application if 
only token payments of £100 a month were being made to the account. So Im not intending 
the bank to take any further action in this respect either.Mr and Mrs F didnt accept my provisional decision, and their further points are outlined and 
addressed below. NatWest didnt respond with any further information for me to take into 
account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having given Mr and Mrs Fs further comments careful consideration, 
Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why the additional points theyve raised havent changed my mind. 
In doing so, I should point out that while Ive taken everything theyve said into account, I 
wont address each and every point theyve made. Rather my findings will focus on the 
matters that I consider most relevant to how Ive reached my decision.
Within her detailed response, Mrs F set out that the complaint wasnt just that NatWest 
hadnt helped her and Mr F while theyd experienced financial difficulty as Id suggested. 
Rather, it was that the bank had caused those difficulties to arise in the first place. She 
pointed me to a separate complaint, also referred to our service, which relates to how 
NatWest handled lending facilities provided to a company she used to own and for which 
theyd provided a guarantee. She says that mistakes by the bank left her and Mr F with 
liability for a business debt of over £350,000 in error  for which monthly payments of over 
£5,000 a month were due just to cover the interest. 
I was aware of that complaint but it isnt the matter at issue here  this complaint is about 
how NatWest dealt with the mortgage account. Weve told Mr and Mrs F that were not able 
to consider the complaint about the business lending as it doesnt fall within our jurisdiction  
and so weve not been able to establish whether NatWest made any errors that caused or 
contributed to the difficulties that Mr and Mrs F have experienced, as theyve alleged. I cant, 
therefore, accept as fact that the bank caused Mr and Mrs Fs financial difficulties  and its 
not something that I can look into under this complaint either.
Mrs F has also pointed to some statements within my summary of the background that she 
considered inaccurate. So Id like to clarify those points before dealing with the complaint 
issues themselves:
Id said that Mr and Mrs F were having difficulty in making their mortgage payments 
in early 2019, but Mrs F says that was incorrect and that was only when the problems 
arose with the business lending. But irrespective of the cause of their difficulties, the 
direct debit payment for their mortgage was returned unpaid in January and February 
2019. Notes on the account show that Mrs F was in touch with the bank at this time 
to ask for help, with a note on 21 February recording that she is currently in arrears 
with her personal loan and mortgage is due to be paid tomorrow and she has no 
funds to pay for this. So while I understand Mrs F sees the situation as a result of 
the issues with the business lending, I think its still accurate to say that she and Mr F 
were experiencing some difficulty in making payments in early 2019. That doesnt 
mean the account was in arrears at that time, and as Mrs F says, I note the 
payments in those months were ultimately made.
 
Id said the mortgage reverted to the SVR on 1September 2019 after their fixed rate 
expired, but Mrs F said this was incorrect as the rate had actually changed before the 
fixed rate ended. But the mortgage offer stated that the fixed rate of 1.67% would apply until 31 August 2019, and move to the SVR on 1 September 2019. A statement 
of the account shows that this is what happened.
 
Mrs F didnt agree that NatWest had reviewed the issue with the account marker and 
overturned its decision as Id described; rather the consultant she was dealing with 
had the sanction marker removed to facilitate a product switch. She saw this as the 
bank being forced to accept an error. But I dont see a significant distinction between 
those two descriptions of what happened: the consultant was an employee of 
NatWest, and the position was ultimately reviewed by the department to which he 
escalated the matter. 
 
Looking at the issue of the product switch, I note Mrs F remains of the view that the product 
switch couldve been put through earlier. I explained in my provisional decision why I agreed 
that it couldve been  but also why I didnt think that also meant that it shouldve been. And 
as I went on to explain, in any event the switch was backdated to cover the period during 
which interest had been charged at the SVR  so theyd not ended up losing out in this 
respect anyway.
Mrs F also maintains that the interest refund following the backdated product switch is 
incorrect. Shes not provided any calculations to support why that might be the case, but has 
said that she intends to have a forensic accountant review the account in light of the refund. 
That will provide a level of detail that we cant offer  as were not auditors or accountants. 
So I suggest that if the review uncovers any errors in the figures, these could form the basis 
of a new complaint to NatWest.
On the amount of the refund, Mrs F has only commented on my reference to the higher 
balance as one factor in the apparent discrepancy between her expectations and the actual 
refund. She said the arrears had only arisen due to the NatWests errors. She says that she 
stopped making payments due to the way it had handled the account. But I cant agree that 
this was a reasonable course of action to take. Mr and Mrs F were still contractually obliged 
to make their monthly payments. And I think its reasonable to expect them to pay as much 
as they could afford, bearing in mind they wouldve known that something wouldve been 
payable even though they disputed the amounts. 
For much the same reason, I still dont think the missed payments should be written off as 
Mrs F has requested. She puts these down to the banks errors and the wait for an answer 
from our service. But as Ive said, she and Mr F were obliged to keep making the monthly 
payments and neither the bank nor us led them to believe otherwise. As Ive not found the 
arrears accrued due to an error by NatWest, they remain amounts that Mr and Mrs F would 
always have had to pay. So it wouldnt be fair for me to require the bank to write them off, or 
remove record of them from Mr and Mrs Fs credit record.
On the request to switch the mortgage to an interest only basis, Mrs F says she supplied 
NatWest with four independent valuation reports to support her claim that the property was 
worth more than the figure on the banks systems. She says these werent all a year old, as 
Id suggested, as theyd been conducted at various points between June 2018 and October 
2019. But Im looking at the banks decision to decline the interest only switch in May 2019, 
which is also when it confirmed its position in its final response to the complaint. From what 
Ive seen, at that time the bank had only been given valuation reports from July 2018 and 
September 2018. So I still dont think it acted unreasonably in rejecting these as grounds to 
overrule its valuation of the property. Finally I note that Mrs F still feels the bank couldve done more to help her and Mr F in the 
circumstances. She points out that assistance was declined by virtue of the sanction marker, 
which was subsequently waived anyway, and reiterates that the account was up-to-date 
prior to the switch to the SVR. But the marker wasnt a factor in my provisional finding that 
the bank hadnt done anything wrong in declining to agree any changes to the mortgage. 
Rather, I found that Mr and Mrs F had no funds with which to make any payments to the 
account at all. And there was no suggestion that this would change in the short-term. So 
there were no concessions that NatWest couldve offered which wouldve made the 
mortgage affordable for them. And this was ultimately borne out by the payments that they 
did  and didnt  make to the mortgage in the months that followed the complaint. So Ive 
not seen anything that leads me to think any differently on that point. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr and Mrs F's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman