DRN-3434302
The complaint
Mrs N complains about Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) poor level of 
workmanship and the distress this caused, following a claim under her home emergency 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ns boiler developed a fault and she contacted RSA to make a claim. It sent the first 
engineer, who spent around five hours at her home, didnt fix the boiler and told Mrs N that 
she would need to replace the boiler. Mrs N contacted RSA to find out why and it sent 
another engineer the next day. 
The second engineer attended and told Mrs N that the previous engineer misdiagnosed the 
issue with the boiler and left the electrics in an unsafe manner. He changed a part and the 
boiler was fixed. 
Mrs N complained to RSA given the poor workmanship of the first engineer as he had left 
her home in an unsafe manner. She also wanted to know what the first engineer had been 
doing at her home for so long. It should be noted that Mrs N has also made a complaint 
about the theft of jewellery, which does not form part of this complaint and is being dealt 
with, by our service, separately to this complaint. 
In its final response, RSA accepted that the first engineer had attended Mrs Ns property for 
around five hours. That the second engineer attended a day later and found that the boiler 
just needed a replacement part, which fixed the boiler. It also accepted that the first engineer 
had left the electrics at Mrs Ns property in an unsafe and unprofessional manner. And that 
the work carried out by him, wasnt up to the standard it wouldve liked. For this, it offered 
compensation of £50, for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs N was given her referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators, considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. His view was that 
that level of work carried out by the first engineer was unprofessional and poor. That had 
largely been carried out over a long period of time and was largely unnecessary. That it put 
Mrs N in a dangerous situation, that couldve caused serious physical harm. And on this 
basis, he recommended that RSA pay Mrs N a further £200 compensation (a total of £250).  
Ultimately RSA accepted the view, Mrs N did not. She felt that she hadnt had an adequate 
response to her question of what the first engineer was doing in her home for such a long 
period of time. She felt that that engineers only motive was to steal from her, and she 
wanted to know what the unnecessary work was that the engineer did in her home. So, she 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. And I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I think it would be helpful to outline what is agreed by both parties. 
The first engineer was in Mrs Ns property for around five hours and left advising her 
that she would require a new boiler.
The second engineer attended the next day, fixed the boiler by replacing a part.
Mrs N was told that the first engineer had misdiagnosed the issue with the boiler and 
had left her home in an unsafe and unprofessional manner. The work carried out by 
him was of a poor standard. 
It should also be noted that RSA has agreed to our investigators recommendation of a total 
of £250 compensation to be paid to Mrs N, for the trouble and upset caused. Based on the 
poor workmanship and that due to this her electrics were unsafe in her home. 
Mrs N has asked for an explanation as to what the first engineer was doing in her home for 
the five hours that he was there. So, Ive asked RSA for an explanation of this. RSA has also 
provided with the engineer notes which I have considered. 
Having reviewed the engineer notes, there is very limited information about what the first 
engineer did while he was at Mrs Ns home. What is mentioned is that the first engineer 
thought that various parts were needed to be changed on the boiler. Its later mentioned that 
the second engineer thought that only one part was required. That part was changed, and 
the boiler was repaired. 
RSA said the only conclusion that it can draw is that the first engineer was there for so long 
because he was doing work, he believed was necessary, albeit the wrong work was being 
carried out. So, there is no further information that RSA has provided and from the evidence 
before me, there is no further information about what the first engineer was doing. I 
appreciate this isnt what Mrs N would want to hear. But there is no further information. But I 
do think that RSA has provided as much information that it had.
RSA has accepted that the standard of service and the repairs conducted by the first 
engineer was poor. From the evidence, the first engineer did leave Mrs Ns home in a 
dangerous condition, with the electrics being exposed. In addition, RSA are not able to 
provide information about what the first engineer had been doing for such a long period of 
time. 
Based on this, I think its fair and reasonable for RSA to increase their offer of compensation 
for the distress and upset caused to Mrs N. I think compensation of a total of £250 (a further 
£200) would reflect the failings. Which I think will account for the anxiety and stress that Mrs 
N described being under, during the first engineers visit and after this. 
Putting things right
I think its fair that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited put matters right, as I direct 
below. My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
To put matters right, Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs N £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs N accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
If Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs N how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mrs N a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman