DRN-3265627
The complaint
The estate of Mrs K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed money to be paid from 
her account without making any checks.
What happened
Mrs K wrote two cheques in 2021 to her brother  one for £40,000, paid in February 2021 
and the other for £35,000, paid in April 2021. She said that he told her that these were for 
safekeeping and not as he later claimed a gift. Mrs Ks daughter helped her raise a 
complaint about this in June 2021 when Mrs K needed money to pay for her care. This 
wasnt resolved, and Mrs K passed away in December 2021. Her daughter remains her 
representative and says that she had a power of attorney and should have been consulted 
over the payments.
Barclays said it wouldnt be upholding the complaint. The signatures on the cheques 
matched those of Mrs K. And she didnt say that she hadnt signed them. It considered it 
likely that had it made checks with her before paying them, then she would have confirmed 
she authorised them. And there was no indication that she didnt have the mental capacity to 
operate her account at the time. Barclays said that this was a potential civil matter.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that these 
payments were authorised by Mrs K at the time. Her representative has had a lasting power 
of attorney since August 2016. This covers decisions about a persons financial affairs, or 
their health and care. It comes into effect if that person loses mental capacity or if the 
account holder no longer wants to make decisions. It was different to an ordinary power of 
attorney which would give someone else the role of making decisions. So, there was no 
requirement for Barclays to notify the representative about any payments. And Mrs K was in 
full control of her account. He considered whether Barclays had missed an opportunity to 
intervene. These were cheques and he thought it likely Mrs K would have confirmed she 
wanted to make the payments if asked.
The representative didnt agree. She said that her mother trusted her brother and had given 
him the money for safekeeping. She had spoken to him twice in June 2021 pleading for the 
money back. And as her money had run out she hadnt been able to stay in her home until 
her death as she wanted. The representative wanted to know whether if Barclays had 
contacted Mrs K and shed said the money was being transferred for safekeeping the 
payments would still have gone through. She provided two recordings of conversations she 
had with Mrs K in which shed confirmed the basis of her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the circumstances in which this complaint was referred to this service 
and that Mrs K has since died. Her representative understandably has strong feelings about 
what happened and the impact at the time for Mrs K.
Im afraid that I agree with our investigator that there was no requirement for Mrs Ks 
representative to be contacted by Barclays at the time the cheques were paid. Mrs K was 
still operating her account. Its also not in dispute that she signed the cheques made out to 
her brother.
The key points Im looking at are whether Barclays should have done more at the time and 
whether if it had that would have made a difference. These were cheques and Mrs K had no 
contact in branch with staff about them that Im aware of. It is a matter for Barclays to decide 
what checks to make to ensure payments are authorised. I accept that these were large 
amounts but as I say the signatures seemed and in fact were genuine. Had it wanted and 
been able to contact Mrs K before the cheques had been paid I also think it most likely shed 
have said that she willingly made the payments because I think she did. I cant know 
whether any issues would have been raised which would have changed that. Thats because 
the concerns for Mrs K arose later when she was wanting to access this money. So, I dont 
have sufficient evidence to find that these issues would and ought to have been identified by 
Barclays at the time the cheques were paid.
The short recordings Ive listened to are entirely consistent with what the representative 
says. But these must have been made a couple of months later when Mrs K had asked for 
the money. And when it seemed she realised she had no way of getting this money back.
I understand from the information provided that this was referred to the police. And I do think 
that this is likely a civil issue now between the estate and the person who received the 
money. For the reasons Ive given I dont have a reasonable basis to find Barclays 
responsible for refunding this money. I know how disappointed the representative will be 
about my findings.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs K 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman