DRN-2863491
The complaint
S complains about the decision of Allianz Insurance Plc to decline Ss business interruption 
claim for losses resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
S held a retail insurance policy underwritten by Allianz. The policy provided a number of 
areas of cover, including for business interruption. In March 2020, S had to close its 
premises as a result of the government-imposed restrictions, introduced to limit the spread of 
COVID-19. S contacted Allianz to claim for its lost income. Much of the correspondence 
relating to the claim involved a third party, but, as Allianz is responsible for the claim 
decision, I have referred to them only for the sake of simplicity. 
Allianz declined the claim, largely because they said the cover provided that related to 
disease was limited to a specified list of diseases, which did not include COVID-19. S was 
unhappy with the outcome and complained, bringing its complaint to this service. 
However, our Investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said the core cover provided by 
the business interruption section of the policy, along with a number of the extensions to this 
section, required the interruption to have been caused by damage. And he said neither 
COVID-19 nor the restrictions had caused damage as required by the policy. He also didnt 
think the Specified Illnesses extension provided cover in the circumstances, as COVID-19 
was not one of the illnesses listed in the policy. 
S remained unhappy, and its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on C, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that S closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy S took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Ss policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. The core cover requires this 
damage be to the insureds contents, goods, stock or buildings. The relevant extensions 
require the damage be to property owned by others  i.e. that of the insureds suppliers, or to 
property within the immediate vicinity/a mile of the insureds premises.
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19 caused damage to property which has led to an interruption of Ss business. 
It is possible that the virus causing COVID-19 was present on surfaces in Ss premises. But I 
do not consider this caused those surfaces damage. I think for there to have been damage, 
as it is required under the policy, there would have to be either a physical change to property 
or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of damage.
I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by the COVID-19 virus to 
either Ss property or other property relevant to the claim. And I also dont consider that any 
specialist cleaning of such property was required. 
So, I dont think either the core business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely on 
there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ss claim. And I think 
Allianz acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ss claim under this area of cover.
Ss policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover 
in the event of certain diseases.
The Specified Illnesses extension in Ss policy says cover is provided for:
Loss as a direct result of:
a any occurrence of a Specified Illness at the Premises or attributable to food or 
drink supplied from the Premises
b any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of a 
Specified Illness
c any occurrence of a Specified Illness within a radius of 25 miles of the Premises
d any occurrence of Legionellosis at the Premises which causes restrictions on the 
use of the Premises on the order or advice of the competent local authority

The term Specified Illness is defined as meaning:
illness sustained by any person
resulting from:
a food or drink poisoning, or
b Acute Encephalitis, Acute Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Chickenpox, Cholera, Diphtheria, 
Dysentery, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Malaria, Measles, Meningococcal Infection, 
Mumps, Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, 
Scarlet Fever, Smallpox, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Typhoid Fever, Viral Hepatitis, 
Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever an outbreak of which the competent local 
authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
And Legionellosis is given the meaning: 
illness sustained by any person resulting from any discharge release or escape of legionella from water tanks, water systems, air-conditioning plants, cooling towers 
and the like at the Premises.
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this part of the policy would have provided S 
with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one of the 
diseases listed in the definition of Specified Illnesses. And COVID-19 is a separate, distinct 
disease from Legionellosis.
When reaching this finding Im mindful of Ss comments that COVID-19 is a new disease that 
no-one had the foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Allianz to 
include it in the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. 
Thats because I dont think Allianz intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for 
all diseases. Allianz deliberately chose to define Specified Illness by reference to a static 
list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy S has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy S has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of Specified Illness in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover. I dont think the policy can or 
should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set 
out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
I also dont consider COVID-19 can fall within the cover provided in relation to Legionellosis. 
Whilst both diseases might well be spread partly through air circulation, this does not make 
them the same disease. And even if this were not the case, no evidence that either 
COVID-19 or Legionellosis occurred on Ss premises has been provided.
Ss claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Ss policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Allianzs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Allianz should have met Ss claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for S and its directors, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough 
explanation of why this policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 Sam Thomas
Ombudsman