DRN-2774520
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1993. Mrs P added the policy 
when she also was applying for a credit card. She did this by filling out an application form 
and sending it back to Barclays in the post.
Our adjudicator initially upheld Mrs Ps complaint. Barclays disagreed with this, so Mrs Ps 
complaint came to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
I am minded to not uphold Mrs Ps complaint and I will explain why.
I think Barclays made Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take
it. I say this because she filled in an application form which asked her to say if she
required PPI. And I can see that she ticked a box to indicate that she wanted to take the
policy out. She could have left this box blank if she didnt want the insurance.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P, so it didnt have to check if it was
suitable for her. It did have to provide information that was clear, fair and not
misleading.
It is possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But I dont think that clearer information would have made a difference
to Mrs P adding the insurance anyway.
I say this because Mrs P told us that she was entitled to less than 3 months sick pay, and
I can see the policy would have paid more than her minimum credit card repayments for
up to 12 months if she couldnt work. This would have provided a useful extra benefit at a
difficult time. And she doesnt appear to have had significant other means to make her
credit card repayments.
Mrs P says she had a long-standing medical condition at the time of sale and our
adjudicator concluded that if she was given clearer information about a significant term on
pre-existing medical conditions, it would have put her off from having the policy. Barclays
disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for more information about it. Our
adjudicator tried to contact Mrs P and her representatives to find out more, but they didnt
get a response. I can see that not a lot has been said about Mrs Ps medical condition so
far, and so without further information I am unable to conclude that Mrs Ps condition would
have put her off from having the cover. I could not find any other reasons such as another
restrictive or limiting term that would have made a difference for Mrs P either.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But she was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy
was competitively priced and affordable. So, I think it unlikely Mrs P would have made a
different decision if better information had been provided.
In conclusion, although I know it will a disappointment to Mrs P, I am currently minded to not
uphold her complaint.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision.
Barclays responded in March 2021 and said it had no further comments to make. Mrs P 
didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has not made any further points and Mrs P has not responded. So, as neither 
party has anything further to add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within 
my provisional decision. With that being the case, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman