DRN-2946374
The complaint
Mr B and Ms S are unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
(Fairmead) has turned down a claim they made for subsidence under their home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Mr B and Ms S purchased a property with an extension that had been built around five years 
previously. They noticed some damage to the extension and made a claim under their home 
insurance policy.
Fairmead sent a loss adjuster to the property, who arranged for some investigations to be 
carried out. The report identified the damage had been caused as a result of clay shrinkage 
due to the effects of trees. Fairmead said the policy didnt cover damage arising from 
defective design  it didnt think the foundation had been designed to the correct depth and 
therefore it was unable to withstand the effect of the clay shrinkage. Mr B and Ms S didnt 
think that was fair and complained.
Fairmead maintained its decision to decline the claim was correct, so Mr B and Ms S 
referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said she didnt think Fairmead had done 
anything wrong. The building regulations at the time stated the foundations should have 
been deeper than they were built at in order to take into account the impact of nearby trees. 
So, she thought Fairmead had correctly relied on the exclusion in the policy.
Mr B and Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the case. When doing 
so they reiterated many of the points theyd already made such as the cause of the damage 
was tree root subsidence which is covered under the policy. They also comment they 
received a copy of the completion certificate for the extension and it was signed off by the 
local authority as having foundations of 1m depth.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 16 July 2021. I said I didnt intend to 
uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
The policy covers subsidence and Fairmead has accepted the extension has been impacted 
by subsidence, as a result of nearby trees.
However, Fairmead has declined the claim relying on a term specifically relating to 
subsidence which says no cover will be provided if the subsidence is a result of defective 
design, defective materials or faulty workmanship. Fairmead say the foundations of the 
extension were defective in design as they werent deep enough to take into account the 
impact of nearby trees.
Fairmead has referred to the Building Regulations which say in clay soils subject to volume 
change on drying, which it calls shrinkable clays and which the extension is built upon. The 
depth of the underside of the foundation should not be less than 0.75m. It then goes on to 
say this depth may need to be increased if there are trees nearby. I understand the 
foundations of the extension were built to a depth of less than 0.5m. I say this as zero on the 
trial hole measurement has been taken at the level of the decking outside the extension and, 
therefore true ground level would likely be 0.1 - 0.2m below this.
Fairmead also referred to standards applied by a certain builder of new homes, N, it says 
these standards required a foundation depth of at least 1.75m to take into account the 
nearby vegetation. And, should be used as guidance when considering an adequate depth 
of foundations.
Theres no evidence the original builder was working on behalf of N and therefore I dont 
think it would be reasonable to apply those standards to the extension. The policy doesnt 
stipulate Building Regulations should be used to judge the adequacy of the foundations, but I 
think they are relevant here. In my mind there was a duty on the builder to design and build a 
structure that complied with building regulations and would likely stand for a reasonable 
period of time, bearing in mind the specific conditions of the site and the relevant guidance 
which existed at the time.
Mr B and Ms S purchased their home with the extension already built. I therefore asked 
them to provide me with any information they had from the time of sale, to see what 
information they were provided with about the extension.
Mr B and Ms S provided a copy of the homebuyer report they had completed. Having 
reviewed this, I can see they were made aware of the existence of differential movement 
between the extension and the main house. The surveyor also provided a warning that the 
size of the nearby trees needed to be strictly controlled and pruned in order not to aggravate 
any movement of the extension.
Mr B and Ms S say their solicitor made enquiries about the extension, I dont know what 
those enquiries were or whether they were before or after the completion of the homebuyer 
report. However, given the content of the above report, I cant say they were unaware of 
possible potential future problems with the extension at the time they purchased the 
property.
Mr B and Ms S have said the foundations werent defective as they received sign off from 
the local authority when the structure was completed. And, as the problem is tree root 
induced subsidence, their claim should be covered.
I can understand why the completion certificate may have given Mr B and Ms S reassurance 
the foundations were of a suitable depth and construction. However, in reality they appear to 
have been built below the minimum required, even without taking into account the impact of 
nearby trees.
Mr B and Ms S have mentioned that Fairmeads evidence should be disregarded in favour of 
the evidence they have provided which shows the local authority signed off the foundations 
at 1m. Ive considered this carefully, but I havent seen evidence of a similar nature which 
suggests the results of the trial pit survey are incorrect. Given there was movement of the 
extension within around five years of it being built and subsequent evidence which suggests the foundations werent built at the intended depth, Im currently more persuaded by the 
evidence Fairmead has provided.
Ive considered whether it is possible the subsidence would have happened in any event, 
even if the foundations had been built to the original depth specified. However, given the 
current damage is described as minor, and that most of the roots found were above 1m 
depth. In this case, Im persuaded had the foundations been deeper, its more likely than not 
this damage wouldnt have been caused.
I realise Mr B and Ms S purchased the property with the extension already in existence and 
therefore they had to rely on information they have were provided with. However, Im 
satisfied the policy is clear it doesnt cover damage caused by defect design or faulty 
workmanship. I realise the clay shrinkage was caused by tree roots and ordinarily, would be 
something covered under the policy. However, Im persuaded Fairmead has demonstrated 
an exclusion applies in that the actual foundations built, werent sufficient to withstand the 
foreseeable effects of the clay shrinkage  and so the exclusion for defective design/faulty 
workmanship is valid.
On the strength of the evidence available to me, Im not minded to uphold Mr B and Ms Ss 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional findings 
Fairmead responded saying it had no further comments to make. 
Mr B and Ms S responded confirming the enquiries the solicitor made about the extension 
were set out in the property information form and additional enquiries form  which showed 
the previous owner was not aware of any subsidence at the property. Mr B and Ms S also 
said that I should not place any weight on the information that was provided in the 
Homebuyers report as this had no bearing on Fairmeads decision to decline their claim. 
Mr B and Ms S further disagree that I should prefer the evidence of an unqualified employee 
of the surveying company over the building inspector of the local authority performing a 
statutory function. They also say there was no evidence of subsidence when they purchased 
the property, the differential movement in the homebuyers report is expected movement.  
In closing, Mr B and Ms S said that I havent considered that Fairmead has confirmed the 
proximate cause of the loss is tree root induced subsidence. The exclusion that has been 
relied upon says the loss must arise from defective design etc. They say because of 
Fairmeads admittance of the proximate cause, they cant fairly rely on the exclusion to 
decline the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision I havent relied on the results of the Homebuyer report however I am 
mindful of what is noted in it and, that it demonstrates the condition of the extension at the 
point of purchase. And, what Mr B and Ms S could reasonably have been aware of at that 
time. 
The extension did receive sign off from the local authority, as Ive noted in my provisional 
decision. However, Ive also noted that the more recent trial hole survey has identified the 
actual foundations that were built, were considerably less than required/set out in the building control notes. There may be many reasons for this, however I wont be going into 
them here as they are not relevant to my decision. My role here is to consider all of the 
available evidence and, where there is conflicting information, such as this I will base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities -that being what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened. 
Fairmead, like this service, arent experts and therefore it is reasonable for it to take into 
account the evidence provided by experts. I havent seen anything which suggests the 
results of the surveying company are obviously wrong or that Fairmead should have needed 
to question them further. So I think Fairmead can fairly rely on the results 
In this case, the most recent physical inspection of the foundations show they were built 
below the required minimum as set out in Building Regulations. Mr B and Ms S havent 
provided this service with comparable evidence to show the actual physical depth the 
foundation was built at and therefore I find the evidence provided by Fairmead more 
persuasive here. 
I considered the terms of the policy prior to issuing my provisional decision. I appreciate 
Mr B and Ms Ss points regarding this however on a fair and reasonable basis I think 
Fairmead have provided sufficient evidence to show the exclusion can be applied. 
The tree roots have caused clay shrinkage, - the damage to the extension was caused by 
the movement of the extension in relation to the shrinkage of the clay soil. Which based on 
the evidence available to me Im persuaded has more likely than not been caused by the 
foundations being unable to withstand the specific conditions of the site and not having been 
built in line with the relevant guidance. In other words, Im satisfied Fairmead has shown on 
the balance of probabilities that had the foundations been built in line with guidance and to a 
deeper depth, the damage more likely than not, would not have happened.  
As such, on the strength of the evidence available to me, Im not minded to interfere in 
Fairmeads decision to decline the claim. I therefore wont be upholding Mr B and Ms Ss 
complaint. 
Final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Ss complaint against Fairmead 
Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman