DRN-2534273
The complaint
Mr N complains that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited cancelled his GAP 
insurance policy and would not reinstate it.
This policy was administrated by a third party, but for ease, in this decision I will refer to their 
actions as those of Acasta.
What happened
Mr N had a monthly rolling contracts for GAP insurance for his car with Acasta.
In May 2020, during the national lockdown, Mr N said he tried to call Acasta to change his 
direct debit details after hed changed bank account. Mr N said he tried to call around 50 
times through May and June but said Acastas phonelines werent open. After trying 
unsuccessfully to call, Mr N emailed Acasta but he didnt get a response.
When Acasta didnt receive Mr Ns monthly premium in May, it cancelled his policy. It said it 
sent Mr N a standard direct debit failure letter in May. It told our service it didnt retain copies 
of the letters it sends but showed us a copy of the system message which would generate 
the letter and an example of the template letter that is then generated. It explained the letter 
would then be sent manually in the post. It also confirmed it was sending and receiving post 
at that time. 
In September 2020 Mr N was unfortunately involved in an accident and when he contacted 
Acasta in relation to a potential claim, he was told his policy had been cancelled. Mr N said 
he wasnt aware of the cancellation and explained hed tried to contact Acasta about his 
payment method but hadnt heard back. Acasta then asked Mr N to send it a copy of the 
email hed sent. Mr N sent in a screenshot of the email which Acasta reviewed. It told Mr N 
hed used the wrong email address (there was a letter missing) and said the screenshot also 
showed Mr N received a notification telling him the email was undelivered. Acasta said Mr N 
ought to have known the problem hadnt been resolved. Mr N explained to Acasta that he 
was dyslexic. Mr N offered to pay the missed monthly premiums and asked Acasta to 
reinstate the policy. But Acasta told Mr N it couldnt reinstate cancelled policies and that it no 
longer sold GAP insurance, so couldnt offer him a new policy. Mr N complained to Acasta, 
but this wasnt upheld. 
Mr N didnt think this was fair, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Acasta told our service that its telephone service was suspended in March and reopened in 
June due to the coronavirus pandemic and UK national lockdown. It said its phone line 
during that time advised callers to contact it via other means.
Our investigator felt Acasta had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed, he explained hed held the policy for ten years 
and paid it in good faith. He described how his dyslexia made emailing difficult. Mr N also 
said he never received notification of the cancellation of his policy. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ns policy and in the event of the non-
payment of premiums, Acasta can cancel by giving written notice. The terms of this 
agreement also state that if the insurance is cancelled or lapses, it cannot be reinstated. 
Mr N missed his May 2020 payment and didnt make any other payments between then and 
September 2020 when he had his accident. So, within the terms and conditions of the policy 
Acasta had the right to cancel providing it notified Mr N.
Mr N told us he didnt know his policy had been cancelled and said he didnt receive a 
cancellation letter. But Acasta told us it would have sent Mr N a letter in the post in 
May 2020. Whilst it didnt retain a copy of this letter, it was able to provide screenshots of the 
cancellation notice on its system which would have automatically generated the letter. 
Acasta was also able to share the template for this notification which says the policy has 
been cancelled due to non-payment and provides an email address for the customer to get 
in contact if they have any questions.
Given the evidence Acasta has provided, on balance, I do think its likely Mr N was sent a 
cancellation letter. So, I think it acted in lines with the policy terms and conditions in 
cancelling the policy and in notifying him. Im aware Mr N says he didnt receive this letter. 
So, Ive also thought about whether simply sending one cancellation letter to his home 
address was fair in the circumstances. Taking everything into account - I think it was. I say 
this noting that the cancellation was due to non-payment, something Mr N ought to be aware 
of (and has confirmed he was aware of). Ive also considered the monthly rolling nature of 
the contract. Acasta also held no email address for Mr N and it would appear his previous 
correspondence with Acasta had all been sent by post. I think its also worth highlighting that 
even if I were to accept Mr Ns account that he didnt get this letter, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to hold Acasta responsible here when Mr N could have realised his policy 
may have been cancelled given he hadnt paid any premiums in five months and it was a 
monthly rolling contract.
But the other part of Mr Ns complaint is that he tried to contact Acasta to resolve the direct 
debit issue but was unable to get hold of it. Everyone agrees that Mr N was unable to call 
Acasta in May 2020 as the phone lines were not operating due to the global covid-19 
pandemic. Whilst I havent seen any evidence of Mr Ns efforts to contact Acasta, given the 
lines were closed and Mr N was aware of this, I think its likely he tried to call around this 
time. 
There were clearly other ways Mr N could have contacted Acasta including email and post. 
But Mr N has explained his dyslexia caused errors when he attempted to email. And I can 
see how this would have made communicating in writing harder for Mr N than speaking to 
someone over the phone. I dont think its unreasonable Acasta temporarily suspended its 
phone lines in the context of a global pandemic - many businesses were forced to do this 
given the unprecedented lockdowns throughout the world. Ive also seen no evidence Acasta 
was made aware of Mr Ns dyslexia prior to him raising a complaint - so I dont think it ought 
to have known to try and make reasonable adjustments for Mr N at this time. But when Mr N 
contacted it about his claim, I would expect Acasta to consider whether Mr N was placed at a 
disadvantage because of the closure of its telephone lines and, if so, whether this was the 
reason he was unable to make his payments. Having looked at the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think the closure of the phone 
lines was ultimately responsible for the fact Mr N didnt have cover when he went to make a 
claim  Ill explain why. 
Firstly, having received a message failure notification following his email, I think Mr N ought 
reasonably to have known his message hadnt been delivered. Yet there is no evidence to 
suggest Mr N continued to try to resolve things. Acasta has said he could have written to it 
via post in this time and it was also still monitoring emails had the correct address been 
used. But even if Mr N wasnt able to communicate in writing or seek help to do so (due to 
his dyslexia or because, as Mr N has told our service, he thought the business might have 
moved due to the closed telephone lines), there were also several months between the first 
missed payment and Mr Ns accident where he could have attempted to get back in contact 
with Acasta via the telephone, particularly with the easing of lockdown. Its not clear when in 
June Mr N attempted to contact Acasta, but at some point in June, the phone lines did open 
up again. And the phonelines were definitely open throughout July, August and September.  
But theres no evidence Mr N attempted to contact Acasta again until he called after his 
accident. Whilst the closure of its phone lines made things initially harder for Mr N, I think he 
had opportunities to try to resolve things before he had cause to make a claim  so I dont 
think Acastas actions were ultimately the cause of any loss Mr N suffered here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman