DRN-4362933
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way AFH Independent Financial Services Limited dealt with his 
request to surrender funds from an ISA and General Invest Account (GIA). He says he has 
suffered a loss as a result of the way the surrender was handled. 
What happened
In early June 2022, Mr P inquired with AFH about partially surrendering his investments. He 
says he was told that depending on whether an instruction was received in the morning or 
afternoon it would impact the pricing used for the surrender - either the same day or next day 
would be used. 
In the morning on 7 June 2022, Mr P provided an instruction for a partial surrender. He was 
expecting to receive that days prices, or the next at worst. But his surrender didnt action 
until 14 June  some seven days later. He says AFH told him the delay was due to internal 
processes. He was unhappy as market volatility has seen the value of his investment fall in 
the period he was waiting. Initially he was told he would be compensated for the delays but 
AFH decided not to make any payment adjustment to him. Following this Mr P raised a 
complaint.  
AFH responded  it didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said the payment request to 
withdraw funds was processed within its overall service level agreement (SLA). The SLA to 
complete a request is five working days  which is split across various departments.  
It said Mr Ps request was received on Tuesday 7 June 2022 at 10:58am and the sales 
completed within five working days, on Tuesday 14 June 2022 at 10:07. It did acknowledge 
the process took longer due to system access issues, but the request was still completed
within the overall SLA. It also said it had no control over market fluctuations. 
I issued a provisional decision in August 2023. This is what I said:
Mr P has been clear his complaint isnt about the length of time it took to administer his 
surrender request  but rather that AFH is responsible for delays that meant he didnt 
receive the correct price for his investment. So, the crux of this complaint is whether errors 
or failings by AFH resulted in Mr P receiving an incorrect price for his investments when they 
were surrendered. 
Having reviewed the available evidence it is clear there was a problem with AFHs internal 
processes that caused a delay. This is something that AFH has admitted both in its 
complaint response and in the emails it sent to Mr P when he trying to resolve the issue. 
The problem seems to stem from the fact that Mr P is a staff member who was seeking to 
surrender personal investment he held on AFHs platform. When attempts were made by the 
Investment Operations (IO) team to process the surrender on 8 June 2022 an access issue 
occurred because of restriction placed on the system due to Mr P being a staff member. It 
wasnt until 14 June that the access issues were resolved. Once resolved the price used for 
the surrender was taken on the same day. So, this evidence suggest if there was no access 
issues the price for Mr Ps investment would have been taken from the day the IO team 
received it  that being the 8 June. 
In my view AFH is responsible for this avoidable delay  and there is a failing. It appears Mr 
P provided all of the necessary information to complete the surrender and the problems were 
all at AFHs end. It took four working days to resolve the access issues and this did impact 
the price Mr P achieved for his investment. 
While AFH says it met its SLA overall, I dont find this persuasive argument when there is 
evidence of delay on its part that meant the sale couldnt take place sooner. I dont find it 
reasonable that Mr P should suffer the loss caused by market fluctuation as a result of 
problems with AFHs internal processes. 
Mr P has provided email evidence of discussion he had with AFH. These show there was 
some concession internally that it was at fault for delays  and was looking at signing off 
compensation. But for reason that arent clear to me, it appears it changed its opinion on this 
and decided Mr P wasnt due compensation.  
Having carefully considered everything, Ive reached a conclusion that Mr P has been 
treated unfairly by the way AFH handled his surrender request. I need to decide how it 
should put this right. I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P as close to the position he 
would probably now be in if there were no avoidable delays in processing his request. To do 
AFH needs to calculate what Mr P would have received for his investments if they surrender 
price was taken from 8 June 2022. If he actually received less than this, he has suffered a 
loss  and it should pay him the difference. It should also add 8% simple interest on any loss 
from the date the funds were received to the date of settlement.  
AFH has said it cant back date a transaction. To be clear this isnt what I am asking it to do. 
Rather it needs to calculate if Mr P has suffered a loss as a result of the delays it caused in 
processing his surrender request. If Mr P received more than he would have done had there 
been no delays, then he wont have suffered a loss  and no compensation will be due. 
AFH responded to the decision and provided further submission for me to consider. In 
summary it said:
- Its internal process for complaint investigation ensures responses are consistent. The 
emails Mr P has provided do not confirm that there was a redress payment to be 
made. The outcome of the investigation (including any potential redress) will only be 
communicated once it has been approved by the Group Risk Team and potentially 
the PI Insurer. 
- Mr P would have been aware of the internal SLAs for withdrawals. As he was an 
employee, AFH provides additional privacy to employees investments, so that they 
are not accessible by others. Whilst an attempt was made for Mr Ps investments to 
be interrogated on the 8 June 2022, there would always have been a requirement to 
obtain special access, due to the extra security noted above. AFH always aims to 
process withdrawal requests as quickly as possible, but workloads can and do impact 
the time taken to process requests and this is the reasons for SLAs to take into 
account additional checks.
Mr P responded to say he had no further evidence to submit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the further submissions made by AFH, but Ive not found reason to change 
the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I note the comments and information provided regarding AFHs internal complaints 
process  including the fact the outcome of the investigation would only be communicated 
once approved. I havent seen that there was any formal communication detailing a 
compensation offer to Mr P. The email evidence Mr P provided indicates to me that there 
was some consideration by those dealing with the issue to ensure he didnt lose out because 
of the process delays. But in any case, this point isnt critical to my overall findings on 
whether AFH is at fault for delays in the withdrawal process. 
I acknowledge the further points AFH make about its SLAs and the reasons why they are set 
- including to take account for the need for additional checks. But what is critical to my 
findings is whether despite the internal SLAs, were there avoidable delays that resulted in 
detriment to Mr P. I dont think it is reasonable to accept that adherence to an SLA can avoid 
accepting a failing to deal with a withdrawal request in a timely manner. So, the 
circumstances of what happened is was Ive based my findings on. The evidence Ive seen 
indicates that an access issue prevented the pricing of the withdrawal occurring. Ive seen 
that daily chasers were sent by Mr P, and the responses he received dont provide specific 
reasons why access wasnt being granted. I also havent seen anything to suggest additional 
or unexecuted checks were causing a delay. The explanation AFH has given indicates the 
issues was just that security access was needed as Mr P was a staff member- but this took 
several days to obtain. The pricing of the withdrawal is sensitive to market volatility, so any 
unnecessary delay can have an impact. Based on the information AFH has provided, my 
inference is that had Mr P not been a staff member the pricing of his withdrawal request 
would not have been delayed. So, while it is reasonable for AFH to have additional security 
in place for staff members who are also customers of the business, I dont think this means 
Mr P should lose out because of this when it takes several days to give security access. 
For the reason given in my provisional decision and those above, I find that there has been 
failings in how AFH dealt with Mr Ps withdrawal request.  Ive gone on to consider how he 
should be put back into the position he would probably now be in if there were no avoidable 
delays in processing his request. 
Putting things right
To put things right AFH needs to calculate what Mr P would have received for his 
investments if the price was taken from 8 June 2022. If he actually received less than this, 
he has suffered a loss  and it should pay him the difference. It should also add 8% simple 
interest on any loss from the date the funds were received to the date of settlement.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct AFH Independent Financial Services Limited to complete 
the above comparative calculation and pay Mr P any loss due with interest as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman