DRN-3983960
The complaint
Mr L complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company in bringing this complaint. But for
ease of reading, Ill refer to any submission and comments they have made as being made
by Mr L himself.
What happened
Mr L applied and was successfully approved for a loan from L2G in April 2022 for £300. He 
says that he should not have been approved for the loan and L2G irresponsibly lent to him. 
Mr L made a complaint to L2G. He said he had recently taken out other credit prior to this 
loan.
L2G did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said in making a lending decision, they consider 
how well he has managed historical credit - from information obtained from a Credit 
Reference Agency (CRA) and his available financial information. They said it is also 
important to note that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information they see is 
not usually up to date as recently obtained credit may not be visible to the lender at the time 
of the application. They said they considered that Mr L declared his monthly income as 
£1,600 and they verified he received a minimum of £1,404.50 from the CRA they used. They 
also said they calculated Mr Ls total monthly expenditure to be £1,182.73, therefore the 
£14.23 a week payment would have been affordable for him. 
L2G said they received specific information from Mr Ls credit check including data about 
any defaults, bankruptcy status and delinquent accounts. But none of this had caused 
additional concerns about his financial situation. L2G made a gesture of goodwill to reduce 
the interest on Mr Ls loan by 25% if he was satisfied with the resolution provided, which 
would be a full and final settlement of his complaint. Mr L brought his complaint to our 
service. He has since paid off the outstanding amount, and therefore L2G withdrew their 
goodwill gesture.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said that considering the information 
obtained by L2G prior to lending, he thought they had gathered enough to have completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks before lending given the loan amount, term and 
repayments. He wasnt persuaded that the information L2G was aware of wouldve raised 
any obvious concerns about Mr Ls ability to repay the loan sustainably over the full term. Mr 
L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit to Mr L, L2G needed to make proportionate checks to 
determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him. Theres no
prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect lenders to 
consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the borrower's 
income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as the 
consumer's personal circumstances. Ive listed below what checks L2G have done and 
whether Im persuaded these checks were proportionate.
L2G said that Mr Ls application showed a total monthly income of £1,600 and that he was 
employed. They said they looked at his application data as well as gathering external data 
from credit reference agencies. The checks L2G carried out showed that they could verify Mr 
Ls income as a minimum of £1,404.50, so they used the lower figure in their affordability 
calculations. The application shows Mr Ls outgoings which he reported to be £900 a month, 
however, L2G used modelling to calculate Mr Ls expenditure  using an industry standard 
method, and they calculated that Mr Ls expenditure would be higher than he declared, so 
they used the higher expenditure in their calculation. This showed that on the lower income 
and the higher expenditure, that he would have disposable income of £221.77 a month 
(which was lower than what Mr L had declared as £700 a month disposable income), and 
therefore the £14.23 a week repayment would be affordable for Mr L.
But thats not all the data the credit checks showed. They also showed that Mr L had no 
defaulted accounts, no public records registered, no accounts in arrears and one new 
account opened in the last 12 months. Although Mr L has said he took out other borrowing 
prior to the loan from L2G, due to the time two of these accounts were opened, (the month 
prior to the L2G loan and the same month), his credit file had not updated to reflect this 
borrowing. So L2G would have relied on Mr L to provide accurate information to them, and 
they would not have reasonably expected to be aware that Mr L had borrowed more 
recently. There were no signs from the checks either as the checks had shown Mr L had 
opened one account in the previous 12 months and was not conducting a lot of credit 
searches either (two were shown in the previous six months). 
The credit checks showed Mr L had multiple unsecured accounts, but these appeared to be 
well maintained at the time the loan was approved. Ive considered that the amount he 
borrowed from L2G was £300 which was not a large amount. So based on the amount he 
borrowed compared to his overall income (and outstanding debt) and considering the 
disposable income that L2G calculated (which they used a much lower figure than what Mr L 
had told them), and the status of his existing accounts being all up to date/settled, with no 
adverse data showing such as any defaults registered, then Im satisfied that L2Gs checks 
were proportionate here and a fair lending decision was made. So, it follows I dont require 
L2G to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman