DRN-4155111
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about the policy excess fees charged by Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) following a claim he made under his home buildings 
insurance policy.  
I will refer to Mr B throughout my decision for ease.
What happened
Mr B says he drilled into a heating pipe whilst hanging a mirror in his downstairs lavatory. 
This caused dirty water to spray forcefully throughout the room and into the hallway and 
stairs. To minimise the damage Mr B entered the attic and stopped the water tank from re-
filling. He then drained the system by attaching a hose to the radiator drain in the lavatory. 
Mr B contacted LV to report the incident and register a claim. He says its agent told him he 
had accidental damage insurance, which meant cover was provided for this incident. 
However, a £350 escape of water excess fee would apply rather than the £100 excess fee 
for accidental damage. Mr B disputed this as he felt the claim came under his accidental 
damage cover. But LV maintained the higher charge. 
The next day Mr B says a plumber fixed the hole in the heating pipe and told him to allow the 
system to refill. Unfortunately, the fill valve in the water tank had become stuck and the tank 
overflowed. This caused water damage to ceilings and into Mr Bs dining room. He contacted 
LV again and he was told this would be treated as a separate claim with a further £350 
excess fee. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He says the overflow from the water tank was a direct 
consequence of his initial claim. He says this only happened because he tried to mitigate the 
damage hed caused by drilling through the pipe. Had he not taken this action Mr B says the 
damage wouldve been far worse as the whole of the downstairs wouldve been flooded. He 
raised a complaint with LV, but it didnt change its mind. 
In its final complaint response LV says the majority of the damage was caused by an escape 
of water. It says this justifies the excess fees it charged Mr B. LV says there were two 
claims. The first was the result of Mr B drilling through a pipe. The second was the result of a 
stuck fill valve in his water tank. 
Mr B didnt agree with this outcome and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. He says the policy terms dont clarify the approach that will be 
taken in this situation. Our investigator says the add-on accidental damage cover Mr B has is 
usually associated with damage not covered by standard insurance. He says LV has 
classified the claim under its standard buildings insurance cover. He thought this was fair. 
Our investigator says the two incidents happened at different times and in a different place. 
He thought LV had acted reasonably when recording these incidents separately.  
Mr B disagreed and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, but 
Ill explain why I think my decision is fair.  
Ive read Mr Bs policy terms and conditions to see if it provides clarity on this situation. 
Specifically, whether LV should consider the claims he made as one incident or two. The 
definition section of the terms includes the following information:
Claim  a single loss or series of losses arising from one incident or illness
I acknowledge Mr Bs argument that he wouldnt have touched the fill valve in his attic if he 
hadnt drilled through the heating pipe. Therefore, he feels the overflowing tank was a 
consequence of the drilling incident and should be considered one claim. 
I understand his point of view. But I think the losses that resulted from the drilling incident 
include the damage to the pipe and the wider damage resulting from the escape of water. 
Referring to the policy definition of a claim, I dont think a series of losses reasonably 
incorporates the damage that occurred a day later, as a result of the stuck valve. 
As our investigator pointed out, these incidents, which caused the damage, occurred in 
different parts of Mr Bs home and on different days. Im satisfied there is clear evidence 
these events occurred separately. So, I dont think LV acted unfairly when registering two 
separate claims in these circumstances. 
Ive thought about whether it was fair for LV to charge a £350 excess fee for the drilled pipe 
claim. I acknowledge Mr Bs comments that its agent told him his accidental damage 
insurance provided cover for this claim. I also acknowledge what LV says about the majority 
of the damage, from the drilled pipe, being caused by an escape of water. Ive looked at the 
policy terms to see what they say should happen in these circumstances. The terms say:
Accidental damage  damage caused suddenly by external means which is not expected 
and not deliberate.
And:
Excess  the first amount of any claim which you must pay. The excess is shown on your 
personal details.
The renewal documents Mr B received say:
Excesses - Escape of water £350 - All other claims £100
And:
Standard accidental damage
-To fixed glass including windows, bathroom suites, solar panels and hobs that are 
part of the buildings.
-Any mirrors, glass or ceramic tops that form part of the furniture in your home.
-To home entertainment equipment while in your home or garden. Also:
Standard accidental damage to underground drains/pipes
-For cables, underground pipes and drains (and their inspection covers) that provide 
services to and from your home.
-The reasonable cost of breaking into and repairing an underground pipe to clear a 
blockage between the main sewer and your home if normal methods of unblocking 
have been unsuccessful.
In the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) it says:
Optional Covers available:
-Additional Accidental Damage Cover  Extended protection for accidents such as:
-Putting a foot through the lost ceiling
-Damage caused by children or pets
-Spills and stains
I dont think the standard accidental damage insurance covers the scenario with Mr Bs 
drilled pipe. However, this would fit more reasonably with the accidental damage-add on 
cover I can see he has included with his policy. That said the policy terms arent specific on 
how a claim will be categorised in these circumstances. 
I can see that damage was caused to vinyl tiles, plasterboard, a skirting board, the carpet in 
the hallway, and to the recently painted walls in the lavatory. This was the result of dirty 
water spraying out of the ruptured pipe. Work was also required to repair the pipe by a 
plumber. But I think its clear that the majority of the damage resulted from the escape of 
water. 
Having considered this point carefully, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to categorise 
both claims in the way it did. An escape of water is what caused the bulk of the damage from 
the drilled pipe and all the damage that resulted from the overflowing water tank. 
Im sorry Mr Bs home was damaged. I appreciate this must have been very distressing. Its 
unfortunate that the water tank overflowed causing more damage after the initial issue with 
the drilled pipe was resolved. But based on what Ive read, I dont think LV treated Mr B 
unfairly here. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman