DRN-3691047
The complaint
Mr B complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) didnt make it clear
that he would have to pay an Early Withdrawal Charge (EWC) when he arranged to transfer
his pension to another provider through a series of partial transfers.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 August 2022. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
in part were set out in that decision. I have copied part of the decision below and it forms 
part of this final decision. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint. He sent his assessment of the
complaint to both parties setting out the background and circumstances to it. In summary, Mr
B transferred his pension to the SJP retirement account in November 2016. In October 2019
he was looking to transfer the pension to another pension provider. He was aware the
account had an EWC, but understood there was a withdrawal allowance that accumulated
each year allowing him to transfer a proportion of the pension without the EWC being
applied. There was a delay in transferring because the new pension provider required that
Mr B took financial advice before making the partial transfers. Mr B employed a financial
adviser and paid a fee of £1,500 for advice.
In August 2020, the day before the transfer process was going through, SJP told Mr B that
he would be charged the EWC if he went ahead with it. My understanding is that although
attempts were made to try and halt the transfer this wasnt possible. £113,400 was
transferred to the new pension provider. An EWC of £3,507 was applied.
Mr B complained about the matter to SJP. SJP agreed to refund the EWC and pay Mr B
£500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. However he was told
the EWC would be applied on any subsequent partial transfers.
Our investigator thought that the EWC on transfer was provided for in the retirement
accounts terms and conditions. He noted Mr B had asked about the EWC in calls he made
to it. He said although he hadnt found that Mr B had specifically asked if the EWC applied,
he agreed it would have been good practice for SJP to have pointed it out given it was clear
from Mr Bs questions that he thought it didnt apply.
Mr B had wanted SJP to refund his financial advisers fee of £1,500. However the
investigator thought that the advice was a necessary expense to complete the transfer as 
required by the new pension provider. SJP had refunded the EWC. And in the circumstances 
he didnt think SJP needed to refund that fee.
Overall, the investigator said that as SJP had refunded the EWC that had been applied and
had paid Mr B £500 compensation for not making it clear that the EWC applied, he didnt
think SJP needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings and the complaint has been passed to me
to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the investigator, Im satisfied that the EWC on transfer was provided for in the accounts
terms and conditions. Mr B was clearly aware that the EWC might apply as evidenced by his
questions to SJP about it.
However, whilst I accept that SJP may have had the right to apply the EWC as per its terms,
as Ive said, Im bound to consider the matter on the basis of whats fair and reasonable in all
the circumstances.
When responding to the investigators assessment Mr B referred to misleading information
he was given in telephone calls with SJP on 17 October 2019, 17 March 2020, and 30 March
2020. He said these needed to be considered in deciding whether SJP had misled him about
the EWC, as this directly resulted in him incurring the £1,500 fee to affect the transfer.
SJP has been unable to locate copies of the calls for 17 and 30 March 2020 (albeit it said in
its letter to Mr B dated 23 June 2020 that it had listened to the 30 March 2020 call). I have,
however, listened to the 17 October 2019 call.
In that call Mr B said, in summary, that he was requesting a partial transfer of some of his
funds out of his SJP retirement account to another provider. He said the amount of money
that he had been told he had accrued which was outside of the EWC was £95,000. He said
hed requested the new pension provider to approach SJP to take the £95,000 from his SJP
fund and he just wanted to make sure that the amount the new provider was requesting
came from the amount that was outside of the EWC wrapper.
SJPs response appeared to confirm Mr Bs understanding, and I think it was reasonable for
Mr B to form the understanding that the money he was intending on transferring wouldnt be
subject to the EWC.
When Mr B discovered that the EWC would apply attempts were made to stop the transfer.
Mr B has said if hed known the withdrawal allowance didnt apply to transfers and the EWC
would apply, he would have waited until the EWC period had ended and transfer the whole
amount at that time.
As Ive said above, whilst I accept that the EWC was provided for in the terms and
conditions, I think SJPs response to Mr Bs query on 17 October 2019 was misleading, and
reasonably led Mr B to understand he could arrange a partial transfer for a certain amount
that wasnt subject to the EWC. Ive found Mr Bs evidence credible, and Im satisfied that if
hed been correctly alerted about the EWC in the 17 October 2019 call then he would have
stopped the transfer and, at that point, had time to do so.
So on the one hand, I think SJP did make an error. And I accept that Mr B wouldnt have
transferred if hed known about the EWC. At that point he hadnt engaged the new adviser or
agreed to pay the £1,500. So I think it follows that if hed been correctly informed in the 17
October 2019 call he wouldnt have incurred that fee.
However on the other, my understanding is that the £1,500 fee was for full advice about the
suitability of transferring the whole amount (albeit on a partial basis) to the new provider. Mr
B and his adviser were sent a document dated 18 June 2020 headed Summary of
Charges. On the second page of the document titled Important Notes point 2 said:2. When income payments, uncrystallised funds pension lump sums, distributions and tax
free cash payments are taken, Early Withdrawal Charges apply only to amounts in excess of
the available Withdrawal Allowance. No Withdrawal Allowance is available for transfers out
or on the purchase of an annuity.
Mr B had already been led to believe the EWC didnt apply and given its lack of prominence
may reasonably have missed this information. However whilst I accept that this was on small
print on the second page of the document, it did come under the heading Important Notes.
The adviser had already been engaged at this point, and Mr B had agreed to pay £1,500 for
advice. The adviser was acting in his professional capacity and I think, on the face of it, this
was sufficient to have at least reasonably alerted the adviser that no withdrawal allowance
was available for transfers.
I accept that if SJP hadnt given misleading information in the 17 October 2019 call then its
unlikely that Mr B would have been interested in transferring and wouldnt have engaged the
adviser in the first place.
However, I think the information that SJP provided on 18 June 2020 ought to have alerted
the adviser that no withdrawal allowance was available for transfers out. The subsequent
distress and inconvenience that was caused by the ongoing process and the EWC being
applied wouldnt have occurred. SJP paid Mr B £500 for that (my decision here is on the
understanding this has actually been paid), and it refunded the EWC that had been applied
of £3,507. I also understand that Mr B transferred to a different provider as he considered
SJPs charges and performance were poor. Although he paid the £1,500 for advice on the
full transfer, he now has over £100,000 with the pension provider he wanted and benefits
from any associated lower charges/improved performance on those monies. This wouldnt
have been the case if he had waited until the end of the EWC period to transfer the whole
amount.
Taking all the above into account, Im intending on awarding Mr B a sum of £750 (50%)
towards the cost of the financial advisers fees.
Accordingly, my provisional decision was to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. 
I asked Mr B and SJP to let me have any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me 
to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr B said, in summary, that if copies of the conversations that hed had with SJP on 17 and 
30 March 2020 had been available they would have added weight to the point hed made 
about being consistently misled. He said information about the Withdrawal Allowance in the 
18 June 2020 document was very small and could be (and was) easily missed. He said the 
information provided reinforced the idea the money allocated to the Withdrawal Allowance 
was eligible for partial transfer. 
Mr B said the £1,500 spent with the IFA was to transfer the whole pension in a series of 
partial transfers. The £113,000 was around 25% of the whole pension and was transferred to 
a cheaper and better pension provider. But he now had to leave the remaining pension until 
it was fully outside of the Early Withdrawal Charge (EWC); incurring SJPs higher fees for 
this period. He suggested another sum as compensation.
SJP said, in summary, that it had endeavoured to make Mr B aware of the EWC and that it 
was documented in the Annual Wealth Accounts issued each year. It said Mr B should have 
been aware of EWCs before he decided to proceed with the transfer. It said the relationship between Mr B and SJPs partner had broken down in 2019. SJP had 
agreed to stop ongoing advice fees, so if Mr B wanted financial advice he would likely have 
needed to pay for this elsewhere. The provisional decision said if Mr B had known about the 
EWC position when he called in October 2019 he would not have transferred his plan or 
incurred IFA fees.  Mr B had been happy to incur an IFA fee to proceed transferring a 
proportion of his funds without the EWC. So as SJP had waived the charge on the proportion 
of the funds transferred out, Mr B was back in the position he would have been in had any 
misunderstanding about the EWC not taken place.  So Mr B got the result that hed intended 
and he was happy to pay a fee for.
It thought given the break in the relationship Mr B would have been keen to transfer his 
funds as soon as he was able to; the partial transfer allowed him to move a good proportion 
of funds without the EWC which it thought was a good resolution for Mr B whilst he waited 
for the EWC period to end on the remaining funds. The fee of £1,500 was in respect of the 
full transfer which would always have needed to have been paid in the future when Mr B 
wanted to move his funds away from SJP. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. 
As I said in that decision, Im satisfied that Mr B was alerted to the EWC. But for the reasons 
I explained, I think SJP misled him into believing it didnt apply to the partial transfer(s) - i.e. 
because they were within the withdrawal allowance.  And given the timings, if Mr B hadnt 
been misled, he wouldnt have engaged the financial adviser in the first place and not had to 
pay any fee at all.
Both parties have commented on the compensation I said I was minded to award. However 
Im satisfied the compensation is fair in all the circumstances for the reasons I set out in the 
provisional decision. The starting point is what the position would have been if Mr B hadnt 
been misled (rather than what the position would have been if the misrepresentation had 
been true). So Mr B wouldnt have arranged partial transfers and wouldnt have paid any fee 
to the IFA (as he could have waited until the EWC period was over and transferred the full 
amount in one go, without incurring advice fees). 
However I think there are additional factors that should also be taken into account in 
deciding fair compensation as I set out in my provisional decision (including the role of the 
IFA, and that at least some part of Mr Bs pension has been transferred and the benefits 
associated with that  as SJP has also referred to). Having taken everything into account, I 
think £750 is fair in all the circumstances. 
Putting things right
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc should pay Mr B a sum of £750 (50%)
towards the cost of the financial advisers fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part, and St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc should pay compensation to Mr B as I have set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before  7 October 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman