DRN-2707690
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited is responsible for poor service in
connection with the home emergency section of her home insurance policy.
  
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. Where its a complaint about a claim
under an insurance policy, we deal with it as a complaint against the insurance company that
was responsible for dealing with that claim. In our final decision we name that insurance
company, but we dont identify any other party.
We are bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules (DISP). One of
those rules is that a consumer must complain to the firm and give it up to eight weeks to
send a final response, before the consumer may bring that complaint to us.
For the year from February 2020, Mrs W had a home insurance policy including home
emergency cover. The total cost was about £228.00.
Admiral was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Admiral, I include home
assistance companies, engineers and others for whose actions I hold Admiral responsible.
Mrs W has shared with us that she is disabled and that she told Admiral that.
In March 2020, Mrs W got a roofer to replace the flat roof of her conservatory.
In the summer of 2020, Mrs W called Admiral for help with her immersion heater. In
particular she rang on 16 August 2020.
On the morning of 17 August 2020, Mrs W made a written complaint to Admiral about delay
and poor call-handling. She said it had left her waiting at home and phoning to chase an 
appointment. At the time, she had been asked to visit her mother who was dangerously 
unwell. Admiral attended to the immersion heater that afternoon.
Admiral wrote a final response letter dated 25 August 2020. It offered Mrs W £50.00 under
the heading of alternative accommodation and £25.00 for distress and inconvenience  a
total of £75.00.
On Friday 25 September 2020, heavy rain leaked through the replacement roof of Mrs Ws
conservatory - and onto some electrical sockets. As the roofer was on holiday, Mrs W
contacted Admiral. The next week, it said it couldnt provide a specialist contractor but, if she
could find one, it would reimburse her. She says her neighbour put a tarpaulin over the
roof.
Mrs W complained to Admiral again about its response regarding the conservatory. On 9
October 2020, Admiral wrote a final response to that complaint. It said it was upholding her
complaint and offering £50.00  but then said it wasnt upholding the complaint.
our investigators opinion
Mrs W brought her complaints to us in mid-November 2020.
She included a complaint that Admiral had visited in June and July 2020 and not properly
fixed the immersion heater. Indeed, she said Admiral had fitted the wrong size thermostat for
her tank. Our investigator said we couldnt deal with that complaint.
Otherwise the investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She
thought that Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs W 
and to Admiral on 11 March 2021. I summarise my findings:
Under the rules - I cant comment on Mrs Ws complaints that, without 
communication, Admiral installed a heating element that was unsuitable or 
dangerous or caused further tripping.
Id thought about how much I wouldve found fair compensation for distress and
inconvenience if Admiral hadnt made its offers. And Id concluded that I wouldve 
found £125.00 fair and reasonable.
Subject to any further information from Mrs W or from Admiral, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mrs W (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) £125.00.
Mrs W accepts the provisional decision. She says she hasnt received the £75.00 but she 
has received the £50.00.
Admiral also accepts the provisional decision. It told us on 22 March that the £75.00 would 
be with Mrs W within 3 to 5 working days.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W has said Admiral installed a new part in her hot water tank in June 2020. She has
sent us a photograph of the packaging, which shows an immersion heating element.
Her complaint dated 17 August 2020 didnt include a complaint that Admiral had installed an
unsuitable part. Thats the reason why Admiral didnt address that point in its August final
response. For the same reason, Admiral had to have an opportunity to write a final response
before Mrs W could bring that complaint to us. We would now have to deal with that
separately.
So - under the rules - I cant comment on Mrs Ws complaint that, without communication,
Admiral installed a heating element that was unsuitable or dangerous or caused further
tripping.
The incidents in August and September were of no hot water and of rain water leaking onto
electrical sockets. Admiral didnt say that they werent home emergencies.I accept Mrs Ws complaints that Admiral is responsible for raising an expectation that it
would respond within specific timescales  but then not fulfilling that expectation.
I accept her evidence that there were times when Admiral rang but didnt give her a
reasonable opportunity to answer the telephone.
These shortcomings caused Mrs W inconvenience and distress. The impact on Mrs W was
that she was left waiting for call-backs and then had to chase to find out what was
happening. That caused particular distress when she was needing to visit her dangerously
unwell mother.
Admiral did attend to the immersion heater during the afternoon of the day after Mrs W
called in August 2020. But Admirals shortcomings in communication about the roof went on
for about a week.
Ive thought about how much I wouldve found fair compensation for distress and
inconvenience if Admiral hadnt made its offers. And Ive concluded that I wouldve found
£125.00 fair and reasonable.
I dont understand why Admirals August final response offered £50.00 under the heading of
alternative accommodation (plus £25.00 for distress and inconvenience). And I consider
that it wouldve been better to include an apology.
Admirals October final response did say that it was awarding £50.00 compensation to
apologise.... But it then made the mistake of saying that it wasnt upholding the complaint 
when in fact it was.
Putting things right
Overall, I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mrs W (insofar as it
hasnt already paid her) £125.00. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs W (insofar as it hasnt already paid her) 
£125.00.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman