DRN-1542980
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) handled his 
claim following an accident under his motor policy.
What happened
Mr H was involved in a road traffic accident on 10 May 2019. He reported it to RSA on 13 
May. RSA then believed Mr H failed to disclose a criminal conviction.
 
It investigated this and put his claim on hold whilst it did so until 20 June, threatening that Mr 
Hs policy could be cancelled. It turned out Mr H wasnt required to disclose this conviction. 
So RSA was then ready to deal with his claim but in fact the other drivers insurers dealt with 
Mr Hs claim. However RSA paid him £300 compensation for having his claim put on hold for 
this length of time.
Mr H said he was without a car. However RSA said the car hire company said the hire car 
was never taken by Mr H. Mr H also wanted compensation for the period he was without a 
car from 10 May to 14 May. And it was noted that the other drivers insurers paid Mr H for 
the loss of his car also but only from 14 May. So Mr H wanted compensation for being 
without a car from 10 May to 14 May.
 
As Mr H remained dissatisfied he brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
RSA had to do anything more. Mr H disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Essentially this complaint concerns the fact that Mr H wasnt compensated for being without 
a car from 10 to 14 May following the accident. And he wants RSA to compensate him for 
this. 
But Mr H didnt report the accident to RSA until 13 May. Furthermore the other drivers 
insurers paid Mr H compensation for the loss of use of his car from 14 May. So I consider Mr 
H has had adequate compensation for the loss of his car from the time the accident was 
reported to both RSA and indeed the other drivers insurers. Had Mr H informed RSA about 
his accident earlier, then I might have considered an addition loss of use compensation 
award. But as he didnt I dont consider RSA did anything wrong. Furthermore as the other 
drivers insurers admitted liability for causing the accident its their responsibility to 
compensate Mr H for his losses too. 
Its clear throughout the matter that RSA delayed dealing with his claim due to a potential 
non-disclosure issue of a previous conviction. This took a long time and caused delays. RSA 
acknowledged that and paid Mr H £300 compensation. I think RSA was under a duty to 
investigate this conviction and to warn Mr H about the possibility of his policy being 
cancelled too. However it should have sorted things out concerning it much quicker. 
Therefore I consider it was right it paid compensation to Mr H of £300. Its of the level I would 
have awarded had it not done so.
 
So I think Mr H has been adequately compensated for the delays caused by RSA needing to 
investigate whether he should have disclosed his criminal conviction. And I can see the other 
drivers insurers have dealt with his losses from the accident. Therefore I dont consider RSA 
needs to do anything more.
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman