DRN-4481481
The Complaint
1. Mr C says that, under Sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (as 
amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006) (the CCA), Shawbrook Bank Limited 
didnt act fairly or reasonably in relation to a timeshare he and his wife (Mrs C) were 
sold on 18 February 2014 (the Time of Sale). 
2. As the relevant timeshare was in both Mr and Mrs Cs names, Ill refer to both of them 
throughout much of this Final Decision despite the claims in question and this 
complaint being in Mr Cs name.
Background to the Complaint
3. The timeshare provider in this complaint is the operator of international resorts and 
hotels. Mr and Mrs C say that, while on holiday in 2011, they were approached by 
representatives of the timeshare provider and offered the chance of a promotional 
holiday if they went to a timeshare presentation. So, they went along and ended up 
purchasing Trial Membership that they subsequently cancelled within the cooling off 
period. 
4. Then, sometime in 2013, Mr and Mrs C say that they received an unexpected call from 
the timeshare provider during which they were offered a promotional week-long 
holiday. Again, they accepted the offer and went to the timeshare providers 
Paradise Resort (Tenerife) in February 2014. While there, Mr and Mrs C say that they 
had to go to a sales presentation on the 18th of that month. And during the 
presentation, they say they were introduced to a points-based timeshare called the 
Fractional Property Owners Club (the FPOC), given some information about it and 
shown around a holiday resort that they say they were told was representative of what 
they could expect to have access to if they became members of the FPOC.
5. Mr and Mrs C say that, having been told that membership of the FPOC was an 
investment, and after coming to the conclusion that it would provide a good standard of 
holidays, they agreed to join the FPOC and bought 1,500 Fractional Points for £16,820 
(after a £3,900 discount). They paid for their membership, associated legal and 
administrative fees of £699 and the first years management charges of £7791 by 
taking finance from Shawbrook.
6. The Purchase Agreement dated 18 February 2014 (the FPOC Purchase Agreement) 
was made between one of the timeshare providers sales companies and Mr and 
Mrs C. The sales company, which had the right to promote and sell Fractional Rights 
in the FPOC, was the supplier for the purposes of the CCA (the Supplier). Under the 
FPOC Purchase Agreement, Mr and Mrs C agreed to be bound by the club rules (the 
FPOC Rules) and by the management agreement relating to the club (the FPOC 
Management Agreement).   
1 As per paragraph 69 in the witness statement of the Suppliers Sales Administration Director (DF).
7. The loan from Shawbrook came about as follows. At first, Mr C entered into a 15-year 
Fixed Sum Loan Agreement for restricted-use credit provided by a lender other than 
Shawbrook (Lender 1). But on the 23 February 2014, he contacted the Supplier with 
some queries about the finance before letting it know on the 25th of that month that he 
had arranged finance from elsewhere. However, on 4 March 2014, Mr C contacted the 
Supplier again  this time in the hope that the finance from Lender 1 could be 
renegotiated on an interest free basis. As it couldnt be, the Supplier ended up 
arranging finance for Mr C on an interest free basis from Shawbrook instead. And as a 
result, Mr C signed a two-year, restricted-use Fixed Sum Loan Agreement for £18,2982 
(the Credit Agreement).
8. Under the terms of FPOC, Mr and Mrs C could exchange their Fractional Points for 
holidays. And at the end of their projected membership term of 19 years, they also had 
a share in the net sale proceeds of a property tied to their membership (the Allocated 
Property)  which was referred to as A402 (Monterey resort (Tenerife)) on their FPOC 
Purchase Agreement. As their interest in the Allocated Property was limited to a share 
in its net sale proceeds, they didnt have any preferential rights to stay in the Allocated 
Property or use it in any other way.
9. In addition to the £3,900 discount on the price of Mr and Mrs Cs Fractional Points, 
they were also given a Travel Savings Bonus  which was payable into their bank 
account over 18 months at £120 per month  along with 500 Premium Bonus Points 
per year for three years.
10. Not long after becoming members of the FPOC at the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs C say 
that they were offered a promotional holiday as a reward for their purchase. So, they 
went to Spain in October 2014. And after attending another sales presentation as part 
of the promotion, they agreed to upgrade their membership on the 27th of that month 
by acquiring an additional 550 Fractional Points on top of the 1,500 they already had  
taking their total to 2,050. 
11. The upgrade in October 2014 came about in the following way. After a tour of the 
relevant resort, Mr and Mrs C say that they were asked about where they would like to 
holiday during their sales presentation. And when they stated Florida, they say they 
were told that they didnt have enough Fractional Points to help make that happen. 
12. So, to give themselves enough Fractional Points to holiday in Florida, Mr and Mrs C 
say they agreed to upgrade having continued to be attracted by the fact that FPOC 
membership was an investment. The purchase price was £28,449 less the trade-in 
value of their existing membership  which was £19,500.3 That left them owing £8,949 
that they paid for using restricted-use credit. However, as the credit in question was 
provided by a different lender (Lender 3), Mr and Mrs Cs purchase in October 2014 
isnt the subject of this complaint.
13. Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs C  using a 
professional representative (PR)  wrote to Shawbrook on 26 October 2017 (the 
Letter of Claim) to make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and 
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
2 This was the total payable according to the FPOC Purchase Agreement: £17,519 was for the Purchase Price (including the 
legal and administrative fees of £699) and £779 was for Membership/Dues  which, as per paragraph 69 of DFs witness 
statement, was the first years annual management charge.
3 As to the Travel Saving Bonus, 8 monthly payments of £120 were paid before the upgrade and it was agreed at the time of 
the upgrade that Mr and Mrs C would be receive a further 10 payments after the upgrade.  14. The assertions that underpinned each of the claims, as far as they are relevant to what 
happened at the Time of Sale, can be summarised as follows:
(1) The FPOC was misrepresented. Mr and Mrs C werent told that the product was 
a timeshare. But they were told that: 
i. As members of the FPOC, they would have a share in a specific property in 
a specific resort by buying bricks and mortar.
ii. Membership would be a fantastic investment.
iii.Property value only goes up.
iv. Their membership of the FPOC had a fixed term of 19 years  guaranteeing, 
their representative says, the end date in 2033, after which membership 
would end completely and they would no longer be liable for it.
v. After the 19-year term, they would get their investment back, plus £5,769 
profit  a figure that Mr C wrote down at the Time of Sale.
vi. The Supplier would buy back the Allocated Property after 19 years.
(2) Mr and Mrs C also say that, during a holiday in October 2015, they met non-
members at the resort they were staying at  which was contrary to what they 
had been told by the Supplier at the Time of Sale about the exclusivity of the 
resorts they could holiday at.
(3) Mr and Mrs C experienced difficulties with their membership of the FPOC 
because they were unable to book holidays where they wanted and when they 
wanted to.
(4) Mr and Mrs C were pressured into paying for membership of the FPOC.
(5) The duration of Mr and Mrs Cs FPOC membership along with the obligation to 
pay annual management charges for the duration of their membership were 
unfair and breached the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 
(the UTCCR).
15. PR also argued that Shawbrook had breached the Office of Fair Tradings (the OFT) 
Guide on Irresponsible Lending. 
16. As a result, Mr and Mrs C sought the following in compensation (as far as it was 
relevant to this complaint):
(1) A refund of the payments made to Shawbrook under the Credit Agreement
(2) A refund of all the annual management charges.
(3) Interest from the date of each payment until the date of settlement;
(4) The removal of any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file;
(5) A separate award for distress, inconvenience and upset; and
(6) A separate award for their reasonably incurred legal fees.
17. In April 2018, Mr C  with help from PR  referred a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Assessment One
18. The complaint was then eventually passed to an investigator who came to the initial 
conclusion that it ought to be upheld because the Supplier, who as a statutory agent of 
Shawbrook, had failed to disclose to Mr and Mrs C important information about the 
Allocated Property  which put them at a significant disadvantage. And as a result, she 
thought it was likely that a court would conclude that there was an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under Section 140A.
19. Shawbrook disagreed and provided extensive submissions that needed to be read in 
conjunction with several witness statements and accompanying exhibits. It isnt 
practical to set out the submissions in full here. But I have summarised them in the 
paragraph below.
20. Shawbrook didnt think that membership of the FPOC had been misrepresented to 
Mr and Mrs C. It argued that membership couldnt have been sold as an investment 
because doing so was prohibited by the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and 
Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the Timeshare Regulations) and the evidence 
made it clear that the FPOC was not sold as an investment  including the fact that 
there isnt any reliable evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs C were provided with an 
estimate or guarantee in regard to what the Allocated Property was going to be worth 
in the future. Shawbrook said that Mr and Mrs Cs allegation that they were pressured 
into purchasing membership is demonstrably untrue. It also argued that, while the 
sales process could take some time, it didnt think that was inappropriate nor did it 
think that resulted in undue pressure on consumers. Instead, Shawbrook said that the 
appropriate amount of time was taken to ensure that the FPOC was fully and 
accurately explained to consumers so that they properly understood what they were 
purchasing. And as Mr and Mrs C were provided with all the key information (none of 
which was misleading), Shawbrook thought that it was clear that they made a fully 
informed decision when purchasing membership of the FPOC. However, Shawbrook 
went on to say that, even if there was an unfair debtor-creditor relationship between it 
and Mr C, the relationship didnt remain unfair because Mr and Mrs Cs upgrade in 
October 2014 ended the unfairness. 
Assessment Two
21. Having looked at the complaint again in light of everything that had been said and 
provided, the new information led the investigator to change her mind  concluding 
that it wasnt fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint given what she now knew. 
22. PR disagreed and provided extensive submissions, an Opinion from Counsel and a 
copy of a report by the Department for Business Innovation & Skills called Disposal of 
Timeshares and Other Long-term Holiday Products. Again, it isnt practical to set out 
the submissions in full here. But I have summarised them in the next four paragraphs 
below.
23. PR argued that Mr and Mrs C were pressured into purchasing FPOC membership 
because they had to complete the transaction on the day in question. 
24. PR said that the sales process focused almost entirely on the potential benefits of 
membership with little to no detail about the potential risks, downsides and how 
membership worked in practice  suggesting that the price Mr and Mrs C paid for their 
share in the Allocated Property differed from the purchase price of real estate because 
the price of acquiring Fractional Points was not directly linked to the market value of 
the Allocated Property. 25. PR also argued that the ongoing cost of FPOC membership was opaque and included 
various expenses and capital contributions to the FPOC along with administration and 
affiliation fees  which made it difficult if not impossible for average consumers to 
gauge whether the finance and other costs were worthwhile. And overall, PR thought 
that the transaction created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship because there was a 
clear imbalance of knowledge.
26. As for Counsels Opinion, he didnt think it could be argued with force that 
Mr and Mrs C were pressured into the FPOC Agreement at the Time of Sale because 
it wasnt until April that year when Mr C agreed to the finance from Shawbrook. He 
also thought that Mr C was strong and sensible enough to insist on seeking his own 
finance rather than what was initially offered from Lender 1. And while he thought that 
there were clearly examples of poor conduct by the Supplier, he didnt think they had 
an impact on Mr and Mrs Cs ability to consider FPOC membership at their leisure. 
Instead, he thought the better points included the product not being accurately 
described and the explanations given being misleading. Whats more, while the 
purchase of further points in October 2014 was to try and remedy the lack of available 
holidays, he hadnt seen any contemporaneous evidence of such concerns being 
recorded  which he thought was entirely consistent with the suggestion that 
Mr and Mrs C only discovered problems with the FPOC much later. And he thought 
that they were persuaded to purchase more Fractional Points because they wanted to 
holiday in Florida.
27. As an informal resolution to this complaint didnt prove possible, the complaint was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me. 
My Provisional Decision
28. I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 12 May 2021 upholding this complaint. And in 
summary, I thought that:
(1) The relevant legal and regulatory context included:
i. the CCA;
ii. case law on Section 140A;
iii. the law on misrepresentation;
iv. the Timeshare Regulations;
v. the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (the 
CPUT Regulations); and
vi. the UTCCR.
(2) The Resort Development Organisation  Code of Conduct (1 January 2010) (the 
RDO Code) represented good industry practice that was appropriate to take 
into account.
(3) The negotiations conducted by the Supplier during the sale of Mr and Mrs Cs 
membership of the FPOC were conducted in relation to a transaction financed or 
proposed to be financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement as defined by 
Section 12(b) of the CCA. That made them antecedent negotiations under 
Section 56(1)(c) of the CCA  which, in turn, meant that they were conducted by 
the Supplier as agent for Shawbrook as per Section 56(2) of the CCA. And for 
that reason, I thought the Suppliers pre-contractual acts and/or omissions were 
relevant to the claims against Shawbrook under Sections 75 and 140A.(4) Mr and Mrs Cs FPOC membership wasnt misrepresented by the Supplier in 
such a way as to make it liable under the law of misrepresentation. So, 
Shawbrooks handling of Mr Cs claim under Section 75 of the CCA wasnt unfair 
or unreasonable.
(5) There wasnt the evidence to argue that the loan from Shawbrook was 
unaffordable for Mr C, given his circumstances. 
(6) A court would be likely to find that the debtor-creditor relationship in question, 
which arose out of the loan from Shawbrook taken together with the FPOC 
Purchase Agreement, was unfair given all of the circumstances of this complaint. 
(7) When looking at what happened at the Time of Sale entirely as a question of 
what was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, 
Shawbrook (by its statutory agent, the Supplier) didnt act fairly or reasonably in 
conducting the pre-contractual negotiations with Mr C. The decision he and 
Mrs C made to purchase membership of the FPOC was prejudiced and, as a 
result, they suffered financially  having paid for FPOC membership that they 
wouldnt have purchased had it not been for the relevant breaches by the 
Supplier. So, Shawbrooks handling of Mr Cs claim under Section 140A was 
unfair and unreasonable.
29. I gave both sides a month to respond with new arguments and/or evidence  a 
deadline I ultimately agreed to extend to 10 weeks, giving both parties until 21 July 
2021 to submit new evidence and/or arguments. 
30. On 1 July 2021, Shawbrook wrote to our Interim Chief Executive and the Chair of our 
Board of Directors. It set out a brief history of its own timeshare complaints since they 
were referred to us before touching on my PD  which, in summary, it found difficult to 
rationalise and thought took a different approach to the courts following a number of 
County Court claims Ive listed in this Final Decision.
31. On 16 July 2021, PR responded to my PD  providing its own submissions, another 
Opinion from Counsel, the judgment from a Court of Appeal case called 
Martin v Kogan [2019] EWCA Civ 1645, a copy of the Finance and Leasing 
Associations (the FLA) Lending Code 2012 and the FPOC Rules and Management 
Agreement from September 2013.
32. It isnt necessary to summarise what Counsel had to say in his most recent Opinion as 
he didnt introduce any new arguments or add to what he said in his first Opinion. But 
PRs submissions, which it said supplemented its submissions on behalf of 
Mr C dated 27 November 2020 (which it said were adhered to), can be summarised as 
follows:
(1) PR asked me to reconsider what I said in paragraph 76 of my PD  which dealt 
with a handwritten note that PR argued was evidence that Mr and Mrs C would 
get their investment back plus £5,769 profit  because it says that:
i. I accepted that there was no reason to doubt the honesty and credibility of 
Mr and Mrs C and I hadnt identified in my PD anything in the evidence 
provided by Shawbrook that had a direct bearing on the note in question.
ii. I found that I didnt doubt the words You would get your investment back plus 
£5,769 profit.iii. Mr C stated in PRs letter of 26 October 2017 that the key for him was that 
[the FPOC] would be an investment and [that he and Mrs C] would get [their] 
money back, and more.
iv. I implicitly accepted that the investment-related disclaimers in the paperwork 
were not read or understood by Mr and Mrs C at the Time of Sale because of 
the urgency with which the documents were provided to them at the end of 
the day. 
(2) The guidance in Gestmin SGPS S.A. v Credit Suisse (UK) Limited [2013] EWHC 
3560 (Gestmin) doesnt enable a decision maker to ignore documents that 
relate to the facts in issue. And if the guidance in Gestmin is relevant, then in the 
absence of direct evidence relating to the sale from the Suppliers sales team, 
Mr and Mrs C were told  on the balance of probabilities  that they would make 
a profit of £5,769.
(3) PR asked me to reconsider paragraph 75 of my PD, in which I found that three 
representations made by the Supplier to Mr and Mrs C didnt look like anything 
more than the expression of honestly held opinions. PR argued that it hadnt 
seen any witness evidence from the Supplier that supports the conclusion that 
those working for the Supplier at the Time of Sale had reasonable grounds to 
believe that Mr and Mrs C would make a profit, let alone a profit of £5,769.
(4) Shawbrooks failure to follow the FLAs Lending Code 2012 meant that its own 
acts or omissions created an unfair relationship under Section 140A.
(5) Mr and Mrs C say that the FPOC Rules and Management Agreement were not 
discussed at all when they signed their FPOC Purchase Agreement.
(6) For reasons previously given, Mr and Mrs C were unable to afford FPOC 
membership if they could not use it effectively for holidays.
(7) In response to paragraph 250 of my PD, Mr and Mrs C said that the holiday they 
took in October 2015 using their Fractional Points was worth £1,000 as it took 
place at the end of the season and all of their flights and transfers had been paid 
for separately.
(8) In response to the assumption I made in paragraph 249 of my PD that 
Mr and Mrs Cs Fractional Rights had been permanently forfeited for non-
payment of annual management charges, Mr and Mrs C say that neither the 
Supplier nor the Trustee had confirmed that their membership had been 
forfeited. So, PR said that Mr and Mrs C should be indemnified against any 
ongoing liabilities and suggested that the Supplier should confirm that their 
membership has been terminated.
(9) Mr and Mrs C lost a substantial amount of money because of their FPOC 
membership. It caused them sleepless nights, anxiety, lots of distress and 
uncertainty  which merits a separate award. 
(10) Mr and Mrs C have also incurred legal fees because they could not have 
provided focused submissions throughout this complaint without access to 
specialist legal help. So, redress should include the legal costs theyve 
reasonably incurred.33. On 28 July 2021, Shawbrook responded to my PD. And along with its own 
submissions, it included a witness statement from the Suppliers Group General 
Counsel (EM) and six associated exhibits along with a judgment from the case of 
Wilson v Clydesdale Financial Services (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(19 July 2021, County Court Portsmouth).
34. Shawbrooks response can be summarised as follows:
(1) There had been a number of timeshare mis-selling cases to reach trial in court in 
recent years that, while not authoritative, were and are indicative of the types of 
decisions that courts are actually making. And in light of these and Shawbrooks 
experience more generally, it said that a court would not find that an unfair 
relationship existed given the circumstances of this complaint.
The FPOC Wasnt Sold as an Investment
(2) The conclusion in my PD that FPOC membership was sold as an investment to 
Mr and Mrs C was driven by a belief that it was designed to include an 
investment element and that their beneficial interest in the Allocated Property 
was an important and distinguishing feature of the product. In Shawbrooks view, 
there were and are two fundamental difficulties with this reasoning: (1) it fails to 
recognise that fractional-type products were established products in the sector 
and considered in the drafting of both the 2008 Timeshare Directive and the 
Timeshare Regulations in 2010; and (2) it fails to appreciate the distinction 
between the Supplier accurately and factually describing a key feature of the 
FPOC and the Supplier actively selling or marketing the product as an 
investment.
(3) Its apparent that domestic and European legislatures anticipated that beneficial 
timeshares could be sold by accurate reference to their features without 
improperly implying that the product was an investment  which was the 
conclusion reached in Brown v Shawbrook (18 June 2020, County Court 
Wrexham).
(4) In any event, In Shawbrooks view, there was no evidence to suggest that 
unfairness arose as a result of a breach of Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare 
Regulations. So, such a breach didnt give rise to an unfair relationship for the 
purpose of Section 140A.
The Availability of Holidays
(5) Mr and Mrs C booked holidays during October half-term in 2014, 2015 and 
provisionally in 2016. So, it cant be concluded that there was any restriction or 
limitation on their ability to take holidays during school holidays other than the 
usual pressures and demands which any reasonable holiday ownership product 
customer would understand. Many of the Suppliers customers need to travel in 
the school holidays and successfully do so. This is clear from paragraphs 39 to 
43 of EMs witness statement when he said that every year, "approximately 
4,000 owners who have 1,501 points or fewer booked school holidays. This 
represents approximately 30% of all bookings made by owners with fewer than 
1,501 points.
(6) Whats more, none of the material relied on in my PD could properly be said to 
have implied that there would not be high demand during school holidays or that 
accommodation would not be subject to availability. It would have been obvious to all consumers and certainly Mr and Mrs C (who were described as average 
consumers in my provisional findings) that demand in school holidays would be 
high and booking early was recommended. 
Information Provision: The Investment Potential
(7) The Supplier wasnt required to provide information on the current market value 
of the Allocated Property or the main matters which might impact on the value 
over time. 
Information Provision: The Availability of Holidays
(8) The requirement to include restrictions in the Standard Information Form was 
aimed at restrictions that actually prevent a customer from booking certain 
weeks or certain properties. The Supplier wasnt required to state the obvious 
and specify that there was a finite amount of accommodation.
Information Provision: The Ongoing Charges
(9) Shawbrook accepted that Paragraph 4 of Part 3 of the Standard Information 
Form should have gone beyond the summary in Part 1. But it argued that it 
would have been inappropriate to comprehensively reproduce the full terms 
governing all the charges. The Supplier provided an accurate description of the 
principal additional charge (the annual management charge) and a description of 
how that was calculated. And the Standard Information Form did refer to the 
FPOC Rules in which full details could be found under the section clearly 
headed 5. Management Charge.
(10) Even if there was some technical failure by the Supplier to provide enough 
information about the additional charges in the Standard Information Form, that 
didnt give rise to unfairness because Mr and Mrs C werent charged any 
additional charges and neither Mr and Mrs C nor PR complained about the 
Suppliers disclosure of the special management charge, sinking fund 
contributions or default charges (the Additional Charges) or the management 
charge shortfalls.
Unfair Terms
(11) In my PD, I found that a number of terms in the FPOC Purchase Agreement 
unfairly favoured the Manager. But Shawbrook says that is not the test under 
Regulation 5 of the UTCCRs. The is whether the terms in question caused a 
significant imbalance in the parties (being the consumer and the trader) rights 
and obligations arising under the contract, to the detriment of the consumer. In 
Shawbrooks view, the terms thought to be unfair did not affect the balance 
between the timeshare provider and Mr and Mrs Cs rights at all. As EM 
confirmed in his witness statement, the timeshare provider was responsible for 
paying the annual management charges on unsold inventory  which means that 
any increases adversely affected the timeshare provider in the same way that 
they affected all other Members. 
(12) Whats more, the FPOC was run on a not-for-profit, break-even basis  which 
means it was impossible for the manager to benefit from the terms that were 
criticised in the PD. And while the terms included provision for special levies and 
sinking funds, the timeshare provider ensured that members (like Mr and Mrs C) 
were adequately protected from such charges by imposing an obligation on the manager to arrange comprehensive insurance. So, no reasonable tribunal could 
conclude that the terms in question were contrary to the requirement of good 
faith.
(13) In Shawbrooks view, I was wrong to suggest in my PD that the relevant terms 
fell within paragraph 1(l) of Schedule 2 of the UTCCR. None of the relevant 
charges allowed the timeshare provider to change the amount of money it was 
charging Mr and Mrs C for their membership under their FPOC Purchase 
Agreement. Instead, it was the manager that was permitted by the terms to levy 
fees on the members and the timeshare provider. 
(14) The FPOC Rules were amended in March and June 2014. One of the 
amendments was the introduction of an independent committee to set the 
annual management charge  which consisted of an independent chairman, two 
representatives appointed by the timeshare provider and two representatives 
appointed by the members (including Mr and Mrs C). And one of the other 
amendments was the introduction of a members right to reinstatement for a 
period of 5 years after defaulting on their annual management charges. As a 
result, initial defaults can only result in the suspension of a members 
membership and permanent cancellation can only occur after the default runs on 
for at last 5 years.
Unfairness under Section 140A
(15) Even if Shawbrook was wrong about the points above, it thought that no unfair 
relationship arose because Mr and Mrs C got what they bargained for  which 
was significant holiday rights and investment potential. None of the terms 
criticised in the PD had been applied against Mr and Mrs C. And as per 
paragraph 46 of Link Financial Ltd v Wilson [2014] EWHC 252 (Ch), the mere 
existence of unfair terms is not the end of the enquiry and doesnt, by itself, give 
rise to unfairness under Section 140A. Moreover, the PD adopted a rigid but for 
approach to causation when determining whether the issues in question gave 
rise to unfairness and what remedy should flow  which was wrong in law: see 
paragraph 214 of Kerrigan & 11 others v Elevate Credit International Limited (t/a 
Sunny) (in administration) [2020] EWHC 2169 (Comm). 
Redress
(16) The remedy proposed in my PD was based on an assumption in paragraph 249 
that isnt the case: Mr and Mrs Cs FPOC membership hadnt been terminated. 
The redress was also disproportionate and gave them a significant windfall 
because:
i. On a proper contractual analysis, the contract Mr and Mrs C entered into in 
October 2014 replaced, in full, the contract they entered into earlier that year 
with Shawbrooks funding.
ii. A trade in value was attributed to Mr and Mrs Cs initial FPOC membership 
that was more than they paid in the first instance.
iii. A strict but for causative approach to redress was wrong in law. Instead, 
thought should have been given to the nature and the degree of unfairness 
along with the remedy required to right it.
iv. Returning all of the sums paid under Mr Cs loan agreement would provide a 
significant and unjustified windfall to him because he and Mrs C would remain 
entitled to reinstate their membership and take advantage of annual holidays 
and the beneficial interest in the Allocated Property without having paid for those benefits. Returning the annual management charges would also be 
unjust because those fees enabled Mr and Mrs C to reserve holidays in 
October 2015 and provisionally 2016.
v. 8% simple interest would also give Mr C an unjustified windfall. And its 
apparent from case law that a court would not award interest at 8% given that 
the base rate had been so low for years. 
See Oyesanya v Mid-Yorkshire Hospital NHS Trust (Rev 1) [2015] EWCA Civ 
1049 and Carrasco v Johnson [2018] EWCA Civ 87.
Oral Hearing
35. Included in Shawbrooks response to my PD was an oral hearing request under 
DISP 3.5.6 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) Handbook. Shawbrook 
asked for a hearing because it wanted the chance to test Mr and Mrs Cs oral 
evidence. And it wanted that opportunity because it says that a large number of claims 
and complaints about timeshares are driven by professional representatives and, when 
exposed to analysis in court, are found to be groundless.
36. I provided Shawbrook with my initial response on 3 August 2021 turning down its 
request. I thought that the reason for its request was very general in nature rather than 
specific to the merits of Mr Cs complaint. So, it wasnt clear what it was about his 
complaint that could only be assessed after oral evidence was given. I acknowledged 
the County Court cases cited by Shawbrook. But as they were small in number and 
were  decided on their own merits, I wasnt persuaded that they or Shawbrooks view 
of complaints by professional representatives more generally warranted a hearing 
given the particular circumstances of Mr Cs complaint.
37. I pointed out that both parties had already provided lengthy submissions during the 
course of this complaint. And as much of that had been shared with both sides since 
the investigator issued Assessment One, both parties had already had the opportunity 
to test each other. As a result, I wasnt persuaded that there was a dispute about the 
facts that could only be assessed by listening to what both sides had to say in person. 
And as it was in everyones interest to resolve this complaint as soon as possible, to 
grant a hearing at such a late stage would have inevitably prolonged its resolution.
38. I also made the point that, because a hearing doesnt involve taking evidence under 
oath or both parties interrogating each other, it wouldnt necessarily provide 
Shawbrook with the opportunity it thought it would anyway.
39. In response, Shawbrook provided me with more specific reasons for its hearing 
request. It said that there were a number of factual allegations that should be tested 
orally  including, for example:
(1) Mr and Mrs Cs allegation of pressure.
(2) The suggestion that Mr and Mrs C were told that they would make a profit of 
£5,769.
(3) The reason Mr and Mrs C gave for cancelling their trial membership.
40. So, I reconsidered what Shawbrook had to say. But I pointed out that I wasnt 
persuaded to provisionally uphold the complaint because of Mr and Mrs Cs allegation 
of pressure or the suggestion that they were told that they would make a profit of 
£5,769. So, it wasnt necessary to orally test allegations I wasnt initially persuaded by.41. I also made the point that Shawbrook took the opportunity to respond at length to my 
PD having seen Mr and Mrs Cs testimony and the submissions from PR  as did the 
timeshare provider. 
42. As a result, I remained of the view that the information we had on file at that time did 
enough to cover all of the issues I needed to consider in order to come to a decision 
fairly. And as I would consider everything on file, including the specific points made by 
Shawbrook as part of its hearing request, I remained of the view that a hearing request 
wasnt necessary.
43. However, during my review of this complaint in light of the arguments and information 
provided in response to my PD, I noticed an inconsistency in the representations 
allegedly made by the Supplier to Mr and Mrs C at the Time of Sale. As a result, I 
needed to look afresh at the allegations in question. I asked PR to provide me with 
some comments Mr and Mrs C made on 20 November 2020 in response to the 
witness statement of the Suppliers Sales Administration Director (DF) as well as the 
comments they made on 21 May 2021 in response to my PD. And that led me to ask 
for some written testimony by Mr and Mrs C dated 14 July 2017.
44. In light of what I now knew, I decided that I needed to hear from Mr and Mrs C and, if 
possible, the sales representative involved in their purchase (SB) at the Time of Sale 
 who was the only member of the Suppliers sales team who, having been directly 
involved, provided a witness statement as part of this complaint. And holding an oral 
hearing allowed me to cover the relevant issues in a way that was fair to both sides 
(the Hearing).
45. I held the Hearing on 14 April 2022. It was attended by Mr and Mrs C, who were 
represented by PR, and Shawbrook who were represented by Counsel. SB couldnt 
attend.
46. I didnt make any findings or decisions at the end of the Hearing. But when I summed 
up at the end, I mentioned that there was the prospect of a judicial review in relation to 
ombudsmens decisions on two timeshare complaints involving the sale of timeshares 
that were similar to Mr and Mrs Cs. And I explained that I would have to consider my 
next steps with that prospect in mind.
47. In the meantime, I shared an audio recording of the Hearing with both sides and 
invited further submissions in response to what was said during it.
48. Counsel for Mr and Mrs C, while not present at the Hearing, listened to the recording 
of it and responded first. I wont repeat his submissions here in detail. But I will 
summarise them:
(1) His submissions supplemented earlier submissions, on behalf of Mr and Mrs C, 
of 27 November and 15 June 2021.
(2) Mr and Mrs Cs evidence was frank, and clearly given in good faith. They were 
honest when they couldnt remember. Their recollections were consistent with 
earlier statements.
(3) Mr and Mrs C accepted that they didnt read the detailed contractual documents 
presented to them by the Suppliers employees at the very end of a days sales 
presentation. They were not given enough time to do so if they wanted to accept 
the terms the Supplier offered them that day.
(4) Neither Mr nor Mrs C had any real understanding of FPOC membership and 
relied on the Suppliers employees to explain it to them. (5) Mr and Mrs C confirmed that the representations made in the Letter of Claim 
were made to them. Specifically:
i.The phrase bricks and mortar. Mr and Mrs C used the word brick during 
the Hearing  which Mrs C understood to mean they were getting a share in a 
property.
ii. Mrs C remembered the use of the phrase no brainer by the Suppliers 
employees.
iii. Mrs C recalled that SB had said that the Supplier was always selling parts of 
properties when asked how they could get their money back at the end of 19 
years.
iv. Mrs C understood from SB that she and Mr C were actually buying a part of 
property.
v. Mr and Mrs C understood from SB that he couldnt show them the Allocated 
Property because it was rented out and that was how the investment part of 
the product worked.
vi. SB and some of the Suppliers other sales representatives (who Mrs C spoke 
to when she had a cigarette) said that it was such a good deal that it was a 
no brainer.
(6) Inevitably, some 8 years after the purchase at the Time of Sale, there will be 
some differences of phrase, or apparent differences of recollection between 
what was said by Mr and Mrs C in 2017 and during the Hearing. That is a 
completely normal feature of oral evidence many years after the event. The key 
underlying issue is to assess the overall accuracy of a witnesss evidence.
(7) Phrases such as no brainer and why would you wish to waste money on 
paying for holidays and fantastic investment were taken by Mr and Mrs C to 
mean that FPOC membership was a good investment and that there were good 
chances of seeing it increase in value. Mr C was honest enough to admit that 
there was a chance that it might not increase in value. That is common to all 
investments. The return that Mr C was looking for on his money was the reward 
for taking the risk  a calculated risk. Like any other investment.
(8) Mr and Mrs C were clear that the handwritten note (exhibit 1.1. in the final 
hearing bundle) was written at the Time of Sale. And they were clear that SB 
didnt want them to take the note away with them.
(9) Mr and Mrs Cs evidence rang true and was consistent with the inherent 
probability that their FPOC membership was sold as an investment:
i. Mr C had some experience in business and he was unlikely to spend £18,000 
without getting some kind of return.
ii. They were unable to take holidays except during school holidays.
iii. They were unwilling to take finance at the interest rate suggested.
iv. They saw FPOC membership as a way of buying a interest in property.
49. Shawbrook responded shortly after PR. Again, I wont repeat the submissions here in 
full. But I will summarise them:
(1) Shawbrook maintained all of the submissions it had previously made.
(2) The Hearing confirmed Shawbrooks original concerns about the veracity of the 
standard allegations made in this type of complaint and the allegations made by 
Mr and Mrs C specifically. When their evidence was explored during the Hearing, 
it became apparent that the allegations lacked merit and werent supported by 
reliable evidence. For example:i. When Mr and Mrs C were given the opportunity to explain, in their own words, 
what was said to them that made them believe that their purchase was an 
investment, they only mentioned the alleged representations at paragraph 
72(a) and 72(b) of the PD. Instead of substantiating the allegations at 
paragraph 72(c) to 72(e), they instead referred to more generic marketing 
speak such as no brainer (audio recording at 10:18).
ii. It was initially unclear from Mr and Mrs Cs evidence as to who made the 
alleged representations. For example, Mrs C suggested that she relied on 
conversations she had outside with unidentified third parties rather than 
statements made by SB or anybody else involved in the sale process (audio 
recording 13:07). It was only when I turned Mr and Mrs C to paragraph 72 of 
my PD and my summary of the alleged misrepresentations that they 
confirmed that those alleged representations were made (audio recording 
16:30). Even then, they didnt confirm that the representations were made by 
SB.
When I invited Mr and Mrs C to confirm if the alleged representations were 
made by SB, they said most of them would have been but backed up by 
reps outside. It was never explained what most of them would have been 
meant but, in Shawbrooks view, its clear that Mr and Mrs C couldnt recall 
SB making each of the alleged representations (audio recording 21:45).
And despite the fact that Mr and Mrs C hadnt mentioned the alleged 
misrepresentations until prompted by me, they unrealistically maintained that 
they were 100% sure that the representations were made (audio recording 
22:45).
iii. Mr and Mrs C couldnt adequately explain why their initial witness statement 
didnt include the alleged representations at paragraph 72(a) and (e) of the 
PD (audio recording 24:50). The explanation they gave (that they had not yet 
located the handwritten note) did not justify the absence of the alleged 
representations (as the note didnt relate to those representations).
iv. Mr and Mrs C initially confirmed that all of the information in the handwritten 
note was taken down at the Time of Sale (audio recording 30:24). However, 
they couldnt explain how information about a two-year interest free loan 
appeared in the note when interest free finance wasnt discussed until weeks 
later (audio recording 57:30).
v. Mr and Mrs C couldnt explain how they had reached the figure of £5,769 
included in their handwritten note (audio recording 31:00 and 33:00).
vi. When discussing the figure in the handwritten note and the return on 
investment, Mr and Mrs C appeared to conflate estimated savings on holidays 
with a return from the Allocated Property (audio recording 34:30).
vii. Mr and Mrs C accepted that they understood that they may not receive a 
positive return from FPOC membership (audio recording 38:20). They also 
understood that any return would be above the cost of membership rather 
than the cost of the finance (audio recording 41:45) and they accepted that 
they didnt rely on the £5,769 as some kind of guaranteed return (audio 
recording 46:30).(3) In light of the above, and together with Shawbrooks previous submissions, it 
submitted that Mr and Mrs Cs recollections were unreliable as they were 
inconsistent with the initial allegations and internally inconsistent. Shawbrook 
also thought that Mr and Mrs C had confused what happened at the Time of 
Sale with what happened in October 2014  which, in its view, fundamentally 
undermined their evidence of what happened at the time in question.
(4) In light of Mr and Mrs Cs oral testimony in response to questions that were 
specifically directed to what was said to them and what documentation was used 
at the Time of Sale, Shawbrook submitted that it was difficult to see how I could 
maintain my conclusion in paragraph 112 of the PD:
i. In response to my question (audio recording 17:20) about the point at which 
the specific words were used as alleged, Mrs C explained that SB started the 
process by discussing her and Mr Cs holiday habits and expenses and wrote 
that all down on a gridded sheet of paper. That seems very likely to have 
been a reference to the Holiday Planner, the primary purpose of which was to 
help identify whether FPOC membership was likely to have been suitable 
given the sorts of holidays that could be taken. It wasnt related to the share in 
the net sale proceeds of the Allocated Property.
Mr and Mrs C didnt make any reference to the net sale proceeds of the 
Allocated Property when asked questions about when the specific words were 
used as alleged. So, in Shawbrooks view, its difficult to see how, on the 
evidence now available, the Allocated Property can be reliably described as 
front and centre of the sales presentation.
ii. I asked a question (audio recording 28:05) about whether most of the sales 
presentation was focused on the investment element of FPOC membership 
and whether there was any talk of the holiday rights. Mrs C stated there was 
talk of that but that it was an add on (despite previously saying SB started 
the sales presentation going through holidays and habits). Mrs C went on to 
describe her understanding about banking weeks and the ability to stay 
elsewhere other than in the specific resorts. Mr C referenced the massive 
book of all the properties (which must be the Vacation Club holiday 
brochure). But, again, no reference was made in Mr and Mrs Cs recollections 
to the net sales proceeds of the Allocated Property.
iii. The PD placed significant weight on what Mr and Mrs C were shown as part 
of the ESA in related to the Allocated Property. I asked them about the slides 
(audio recording 35:35). Mrs C stated that the slides showed where you 
could go, how you liked to holiday, but the bit about how much money we 
would save was done on paper (36:42). That matches entirely the 
evidence given by the Supplier, which was that the overwhelming majority of 
the sales presentation related to holidays. Mrs C then, again, referred to the 
paper with the grid on, which was a reference to the Holiday Planner.
50. As Ive already said, at the time of the Hearing, there was the prospect of a judicial 
review in relation to two complaints about the sale of timeshares similar to 
Mr and Mrs Cs. And not long after the Hearing, an application for permission to apply 
for judicial review was granted by the High Court. 
51. The complaints at the centre of that judicial review raised many of the same points of 
law that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint did, which the judicial review was expected to 
clarify. And with that being the case, it seemed to me to be in everyones interests to wait for the outcome of the judicial review before revisiting the outcome of this 
complaint.
52. On 5 May 2023, judgment was handed down by the High Court in
R. (on the application of Shawbrook Bank Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd 
and R. (on the application of Clydesdale Financial Services Ltd (t/a Barclays Partner 
Finance)) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2023] EWHC 1069 (Admin) 
(Shawbrook & BPF v FOS).
53. In the decision at the centre of Shawbrooks challenge, I had concluded that there was 
an unfair debtor-creditor relationship because the fractional timeshare had been mis-
sold. I also thought that the contractual arrangement, including the associated loan, 
should be unwound as a result. And I reached that decision on a number of alternative 
bases  which, in summary, included the following:
(1) The supplier contravened the Timeshare Regulations by marketing and selling 
the timeshare as an investment contrary to Regulation 14(3).
(2) The supplier contravened Regulation 12 of the Timeshare Regulations, 
Regulation 6 of the CPUT Regulations and the RDO Code by failing to give the 
complainants information on the value of their allocated property and the main 
matters that had a bearing on how the value might change over time  including 
the risks of investing in it.
54. As for the decision at the centre of Clydesdale Financial Services challenge, it had 
been decided by another ombudsman that there was also an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship because the fractional timeshare had been mis-sold. And he also thought 
that the contractual arrangement, including the associated loan, should be unwound 
as a result. He had his own reasons for coming to that decision. But he too found that 
the supplier had:
(1) Contravened the Timeshare Regulations by marketing and selling the timeshare 
as an investment contrary to Regulation 14(3).
(2) Contravened Regulation 12 of the Timeshare Regulations and the RDO Code by 
failing to give the complainants information on the value of their allocated 
property and the main matters that had a bearing on how the value might 
change over time  including the risks of investing in it.
55. Mrs Justice Collins Rice held that:
(1) I hadnt erred in law in my construction of, or approach to, Regulation 14(3) of 
the Timeshare Regulations.
(2) Neither I nor the other ombudsman erred in law when we concluded that 
Section 56 of the CCA, when read together with Section 140A(1)(c) of the CCA, 
meant that the acts and/or omissions of the suppliers during the negotiations in 
the lead up to the sales were tantamount to things done or not done by or on 
behalf of Shawbrook and Clydesdale Financial Services, respectively, for the 
purpose of an assessment of unfairness under Section 140A.
(3) Neither I nor the other ombudsman erred in law when we decided that an unfair 
debtor-creditor relationship had been created for the purposes of Section 140A 
or when we set out our remedies having had regard to the provisions of 
Section 140B of the CCA.56. Mrs Justice Collins Rice reached a number of other conclusions, some of which, while 
not determinative of the proceedings, are relevant considerations in this complaint. 
They included (amongst other things) that:
(1) Both the other ombudsman and I erred in law when finding that there had been a 
breach of Regulation 12 of the Timeshare Regulations when the suppliers hadnt 
given the complainants information on the value of their allocated property and 
the main matters that had a bearing on how the value might change over time, 
including the risks of investing in it.
(2) I erred in law by misstating and misapplying Regulation 6 of the CPUT 
Regulations when I found that it had been contravened by the supplier for not 
having provided the information set out in (1) above.
(3) Neither I nor the other ombudsman erred in law in finding that good industry 
practice, as embodied in the RDO Code, demanded that the complainants be 
provided with the information set out in (1) above.
The Legal and Regulatory Context
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 (as amended by the Consumer Credit Act 2006) (the CCA)
57. Mr and Mrs C paid for their FPOC membership at the Time of Sale when Mr C entered 
into a restricted-use Fixed Sum Loan Agreement that was regulated by the CCA. As a 
result, their purchase was covered by certain protections afforded to Mr C by the CCA 
provided the necessary conditions are met. The relevant sections as at the Time of 
Sale are below: 
Section 11: Restricted-Use Credit and Unrestricted-Use Credit
Section 12: Debtor-Creditor-Supplier Agreements
Section 19: Linked Transactions
Section 56: Antecedent Negotiations
Section 140A: Unfair Relationships Between Creditors and Debtors
Section 140B: Powers of the Court in Relation to Unfair Relationships
Section 140C: Interpretation of Sections 140A and 140B
The Law on Misrepresentation
58. The law relating to misrepresentation is a combination of the common law, equity and 
statute  though, as I understand it, the Misrepresentation Act 1967 didnt alter the 
rules as to what constitutes an effective misrepresentation. It isnt practical to cover the 
law on misrepresentation in full in this decision  nor is it necessary. But, summarising 
the relevant pages in Chitty on Contracts (33rd Edition), a material and actionable 
misrepresentation is an untrue statement of existing fact or law made by one party (or 
his agent for the purposes of passing on the representation, acting within the scope of 
his authority) to another party that induced that party to enter into a contract.
59. The misrepresentation doesnt need to be the only matter that induced the representee 
to enter into the contract. But the representee must have been materially influenced by 
the misrepresentation and (unless the misrepresentation was fraudulent or was known 
to be likely to influence the person to whom it was made) the misrepresentation must 
be such that it would affect the judgement of a reasonable person when deciding 
whether to enter into the contract and on what terms.60. However, a mere statement of opinion, rather than fact or law, which proves to be 
unfounded, isnt a misrepresentation unless the opinion amounts to a statement of fact 
and it can be proved that the person who gave it did not hold it or could not reasonably 
have held it. It also needs to be shown that the other party understood and relied on 
the implied factual misrepresentation.
61. Silence, subject to some exceptions, doesnt usually amount to a misrepresentation on 
its own as there is generally no duty to disclose facts which, if known, would affect a 
partys decision to enter into a contract. And the courts arent too ready to find an 
implied representation given the challenges acknowledged throughout the case law.
Case Law on Section 140A
62. The Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] 
UKSC 61 (Plevin) remains the leading case. 
63. The judgment of the Court of Appeal in Scotland & Reast v British Credit Trust Limited 
[2014] EWCA Civ 790 sets out a helpful interpretation of the deemed agency and 
unfair relationship provisions of the CCA.
64.Deutsche Bank (Suisse) SA v Khan and others [2013] EWCA Civ 1149 is also helpful 
as Hamblen J summarised  in paragraph 346  some of the general principles that 
apply to the application of the unfair relationship test. 
65. In Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) (Patel), it was held by the High Court that 
determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair had to be made 
having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up 
to the time of making the determination  which was the date of the trial in the case of 
an existing relationship or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
66. The position in Patel was more recently adopted by the Supreme Court in 
Smith v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2023] UKSC 34 (Smith).
The Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
Timeshare Regulations)
67. The relevant rules and regulations that the Supplier in this complaint had to follow 
were set out in the Timeshare Regulations. Im not deciding  nor is it my role to 
decide  whether the Supplier (which isnt a respondent to this complaint) is liable for 
any breaches of these Regulations. But any breaches are relevant to this complaint 
insofar as they inform and influence the extent to which the debtor-creditor relationship 
in question was unfair. After all, they signal the standard of commercial conduct 
reasonably expected of the Supplier when acting as Shawbrooks agent in marketing 
and selling FPOC membership.
68. The Regulations have been amended in places since the Time of Sale. So, I refer 
below to the most relevant regulations as they were at the times in question:
Regulation 12: Key Information
Regulation 13: Completing the Standard Information Form
Regulation 14: Marketing and Sales
Regulation 15: Form of Contract
Regulation 16: Obligations of the Trader69. The Timeshare Regulations were introduced to implement EC legislation, Directive 
122/EC on the protection of consumers in respect of certain aspects of timeshare, 
long-term holiday products, resale and exchange contracts (the 2008 Timeshare 
Directive), with the purpose of achieving a high level of consumer protection (Article 1 
of the 2008 Timeshare Directive). The EC had deemed the 2008 Timeshare Directive 
necessary because the nature of timeshare products and the commercial practices 
that had grown up around their sale made it appropriate to pass specific and detailed 
legislation, going further than the existing and more general unfair trading practices 
legislation.4 
70. Before the 2008 Timeshare Directive was implemented in the UK, the Government of 
the day consulted businesses, consumers, enforcement authorities and other 
interested parties in July 2010 (the BISs Timeshare Consultation) to ensure that it 
took the right approach to implementing the Directive. And in December that year it 
published its final impact assessment (the BISs Timeshare FIA).
Court Cases on the Sale of Timeshares
71.R. (on the application of Shawbrook Bank Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd 
and R. (on the application of Clydesdale Financial Services Ltd (t/a Barclays Partner 
Finance)) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2023] EWHC 1069 (Admin) (Shawbrook & 
BPF v FOS).
72.Hitachi v Topping (20 June 2018, Country Court at Nottingham).5 
73.Brown v Shawbrook Bank Limited (18 June 2020, County Court at Wrexham).
74.Wilson v Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (19 July 2021, County Court at 
Portsmouth).
75.Gallagher v Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited (9 February 2021, County Court at 
Preston).
76.Prankard v Shawbrook Bank Limited (8 October 2021, County Court at Cardiff).
Relevant Publications
77. The Timeshare Regulations provided a regulatory framework. But they represented a 
minimum standard. And as the parties to this complaint already know, Im also 
required to take into account, when appropriate, what I consider was good industry 
practice.
The Resort Development Organisations Code of Conduct 1 January 2010 (the RDO Code)
78. Part 1 of the RDO Code said that it was designed to establish the industrys best 
practice standards and complement and reinforce all applicable laws. 
79. The RDO Code also said that all members had to undertake to comply with all of the 
conditions of membership and to carry out their Industry Activities with integrity and 
propriety in accordance with industry best practice [...].
4 See Recital 9 in the Preamble to the 2008 Timeshare Directive. 
5 The claim was withdrawn following cross-examination of the claimant.80. Part 2 set out the Principles that members had to follow. And the most relevant to this 
complaint are below:
1.1 RDOs Members will ensure that consumers can make informed purchase 
decisions when contracting with a RDO Member.
1.2 RDO Members in particular will ensure:
1.2.1  Appropriate disclosure of all elements of the product and/or service to the
consumer and in a manner the consumer fully understands; 
1.1 RDO Members will in no case mislead a consumer into believing that a product or 
service has other features and/or benefits than those laid down in the contract.
2.2 RDO Members will in particular ensure:
2.2.1  Appropriate marketing techniques that make it clear what the object of the
approach to the consumer is;
2.2.2  Appropriate selling methods that treat the consumer with respect and allow 
the consumer choice between purchasing and reflection; and
2.2.3  The provision of any necessary assistance to consumers to enable them to
make an informed decision.
The Finance and Leasing Associations Lending Code (2012) (the FLAs Lending Code)
81. The FLA Code set out the standards of good practice in consumer lending. So, I think 
it represents good industry practice that I now need to take into account following PRs 
response to my PD.
My Findings
82. Ive read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When doing 
that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account the: 
(1) relevant: 
(a) law and regulations; 
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
(c) codes of practice; and 
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
83. The legal and regulatory context that I think is relevant to this complaint is set out 
above  which forms part of this Final Decision. Neither party disputes the context I set 
out in my PD, nor have they questioned the relevance of the RDO Code. But in light of 
whats happened since my PD, Ive added the Finance and Leasing Associations 
Lending Code (2012) (the FLAs Lending Code) to that context, a number of 
timeshare mis-selling cases to reach trial in court in recent years and, of course, 
Shawbrook & BPF v FOS.84. Shawbrook provided transcripts of a number of County Court judgments. And while 
they were decided on their own facts, Ive read and considered them. Ive also read 
Shawbrooks summary of Hitachi v Topping (20 June 2018, Country Court at 
Nottingham), and it looks like the claim in that case was discontinued following the 
conclusion of cross-examination. 
85. When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based 
it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence 
and the wider circumstances.
86. And having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I still think 
this complaint should be upheld. 
87. However, before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to repeat what I said 
in my PD about my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every single point thats 
been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I 
think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for 
reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I will 
continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate 
to Mr Cs complaint, when doing that. 
Section 56: Antecedent Negotiations
88. As I said in my PD, Section 56 created a statutory agency relationship between the 
Supplier and Shawbrook because it states that any negotiations between Mr C (as 
debtor) and the Supplier before a transaction (membership of the FPOC) financed by a 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (i.e. Mr Cs restricted-use Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement) are deemed to have been conducted by the Supplier as an agent of 
Shawbrook (as the creditor). And in light of what the High Court had to say on the 
matter in Shawbrook & BPF v FOS, I remain satisfied that the Supplier was acting on 
behalf of Shawbrook during the negotiations leading up to Mr and Mrs Cs 
membership of the FPOC at the Time of Sale, such that the Suppliers pre-contractual 
acts and/or omissions are relevant to this complaint.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
89. Shawbrook doesnt dispute that Mr and Mrs C entered into a contract with Paradise 
Trading SLU, as the Supplier, for services financed by a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in Mr Cs name. And as Im satisfied that Section 75 applies, it remains the 
case that, if I find that the Supplier is liable for having misrepresented something to 
Mr and Mrs C, Shawbrook  as the creditor  is also liable.90. This part of this complaint was made for several reasons which, being familiar to both 
sides, arent necessary to repeat here. However, as I said in my PD, and despite 
holding the Hearing, I still havent seen or heard enough evidence to say, on balance, 
that false statements of fact were made to Mr and Mrs C by the Supplier. I continue to 
recognise that they have concerns about the way in which their FPOC membership 
was sold. But given the evidence in this complaint, Im not persuaded that theres an 
actionable misrepresentation by the Supplier for the reasons Mr and Mrs C allege. And 
for that reason, I dont think Shawbrook acted unfairly or unreasonably when it dealt 
with Mr Cs Section 75 claim.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
91. Ive acknowledged before that only a court has the power to decide whether the 
relationship between Mr C and Shawbrook was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. 
But, as its relevant law, when deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is in this 
complaint given its particular circumstances, I still have to consider it along with what I 
think a court is likely to conclude.
92. So, Ive looked again at the sale of Mr and Mrs Cs FPOC membership and the 
Suppliers obligations during the precontractual negotiations while also taking into 
account that the FPOC Purchase Agreement qualifies under Section 19(1)(b) of the 
CCA as a related agreement to the credit agreement between Shawbrook and Mr C. I 
have then reconsidered whether I think a court is likely to conclude that the 
relationship in question was unfair.
93. When I looked at the Suppliers sales process for the purpose of my PD, I did so in two 
broad parts: 
(1) The Suppliers sales and marketing practices; and
(2) The provision of information by the Supplier.
94. But in light of the High Courts findings in Shawbrook & BPF v FOS, I wont repeat 
what I had to say about the provision of information in relation to the Allocated 
Property under Regulation 12 of the Timeshare Regulations and Regulation 6 of the 
CPUT Regulations. And as it isnt necessary (for reasons that will become apparent) to 
make any formal findings on the Suppliers disclosure of the FPOCs ongoing costs 
and the fairness or otherwise of the terms governing those costs, Ive focused on the 
Suppliers sales and marketing practices in this Final Decision.
The Suppliers Sales and Marketing Practices
95. Ive already explained that Im not persuaded that the contract entered into by 
Mr and Mrs C was misrepresented by the Supplier in a way that makes for a 
successful claim by Mr C under Section 75 of the CCA. But, in the context of 
Section 140A, there are other aspects of the sales process that Mr and Mrs C remain 
dissatisfied with. These include, amongst other things, the alleged use of pressure 
during the sale and a breach of the Timeshare Regulations.Pressure
96. This allegation was made for reasons that both sides are familiar with. So, I wont 
repeat them here. I acknowledge, as I did in my PD, that Mr and Mrs C may have felt 
weary after a sales process that went on for several hours. But against the 
straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I still find it hard to 
argue that Mr and Mrs C purchased FPOC membership at the Time of Sale when they 
simply didnt want to. 
97. As I said in my PD, there were numerous phone calls to and from Mr C following the 
sale and I havent been provided with any evidence to demonstrate that he said 
something during one or more of them to suggest that he and Mrs C made their 
purchase when they didnt want to. Moreover, Mr and Mrs C havent provided a 
credible explanation for why they didnt cancel their membership during the 14-day 
cooling off period and went on to upgrade their membership in October 2014 if they 
only went ahead with the purchase in February that year because they were pressured 
into it. So, I still find this aspect of their complaint difficult to explain.
98. Indeed, Mr and Mrs C stated in their written testimony that they knew that they had a 
14-day cooling off period and could cancel their purchase during that time as a result. 
And as it wasnt until 21 April 2014 when Mr C agreed to take finance from Shawbrook 
on an interest free basis rather than proceed with what had been initially agreed at the 
Time of Sale, that suggests he (and Mrs C) were able to exercise choice.
99. So, on balance, Im still not persuaded that theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate 
that Mr and Mrs C made the decision to purchase FPOC membership because their 
ability to exercise that choice was significantly impaired by pressure from the Supplier. 
100. However, as I also said in my PD, I find it surprising that, in paragraph 152 of DFs 
witness statement, he said that prospective members (like Mr and Mrs C) werent 
obliged to stay any longer than they wanted to during the Suppliers sales presentation 
and were free to leave at any time. Mr and Mrs C were on a promotional Fly Buy 
holiday at the Time of Sale and the witness statement of the timeshare providers 
Group Sales Operations Director (PR) and an extract6 of the timeshare providers 
business plan called Target Market and Target Customers make it clear the holiday 
was subject to attendance at a sales presentation  which means that Mr and Mrs Cs 
sales presentation was compulsory. With that being the case, I found and find it 
difficult to reconcile the condition on which Mr and Mrs Cs promotional holiday was 
granted with the suggestion that it wasnt incumbent on them to sit through the 
presentation for at least a minimum amount of time  especially when the sales 
process was relatively involved, which I think was likely to have cost the Supplier time, 
effort and money.
6 I acknowledge that the extract isnt dated. But neither Shawbrook nor the timeshare provider have disputed its relevance in 
response to my PD. And it does appear to have been in place when the particular type of product in question (FPOC2) was 
being sold because a footnote in the extract refers to full membership as one of the timeshare providers products with a 
membership term of 19 to 80 years  the first of which is consistent with the term of the product purchased by Mr and Mrs C i.e. 
FPOC2.101. Whats more, Ive seen nothing in response to my PD to persuade me that what I said 
about slide 55 of the Suppliers 2013/2014 Sales Induction Training (that sales 
representatives were encouraged to try and complete their sales on the day of their 
presentations) was wrong. And given the prearranged nature of Mr and Mrs Cs sale, it 
still isnt clear how the Suppliers sales representative would have done that if there 
werent measures in place to keep them engaged for as long as possible and stop 
them from immediately leaving a presentation that had been agreed and organised in 
advance. So, the apparent emphasis on same-day sales in the Induction Training 
coupled with the knowledge that presentations seem to have often been prearranged 
and may well have been subject to a certain level of investment suggests, in my view, 
that the Suppliers sales representatives were working in a high-pressured 
environment that could plausibly have coloured the sale. And as the timeshare 
providers business plan suggests that the sales representatives were self-employed 
and earning an income based entirely on commission from the sale of the FPOC, I 
think that was also likely to have contributed to that environment. 
102. As a result, I continue to question whether Mr and Mrs Cs sales presentation was as 
relaxed and accommodating as DF suggests it was. And while this doesnt alter the 
conclusion Ive reached on the extent to which theres the evidence that Mr and Mrs C 
were pressured into their purchase, I think it remains relevant when thinking about the 
circumstances in which they were told about membership of the FPOC and provided 
with information about its features.
Holiday Availability
103. Mr and Mrs C say that they were told by the Supplier that they would always be able to 
holiday at any of the resorts available to them whenever they wanted to. But they say 
that  as working parents with children who were at school  they found it difficult to 
book the holidays they wanted even when they tried to do so well in advance.
104. The contact notes of conversations between the timeshare provider and Mr and Mrs C 
still suggest that they had difficulty booking what they wanted to book after joining the 
FPOC. A record of a call with Mr C on 18 March 2015, for example, makes it clear that 
he had complained at that time that they could never get what they wanted. And as 
Mr C also felt it necessary on 18 December that same year to try and sell the 
Fractional Points he and Mrs C had purchased, it certainly looks as if they werent 
satisfied.
105. However, in response to my PD, the timeshare providers Group General Counsel 
(EM) provided me with more information on Mr and Mrs Cs holiday requests and 
what they were offered by the Supplier in response. And between 20 February 2015 
and 20 March that year, it looks like Mr and Mrs C made a total of 6 requests for a half-
term holiday in October 2015. In response to the first 4 of those requests, the Supplier 
offered them availability.7 But those requests were replaced by the one they made on 
20 March for 6 people  which they went on to complete in October that year. 
106. It now seems clear to me, therefore, that Mr and Mrs C were more likely to have been 
pushing up against the limits of what their Fractional Points would get them rather than 
against a more fundamental problem for FPOC members who needed to holiday 
during the school holidays. 
7 While Mr and Mrs C requested a 3-bedroom apartment for 1 week in Europe during October half-term, EM says that they 
were offered 2 separate 2-bedroom apartments in several different resorts for the week in question.107. Indeed, EM has shown me evidence thats demonstrates that there was extensive 
availability in August (which is typically the middle of a schools summer holiday) 
across a large number of resorts for families of four with the same number of points as 
Mr and Mrs C. I accept that the list of resorts only represents what was possible to 
book. But EM did say (which I have no reason to doubt) that roughly 4,000 of the 
Suppliers members with 1,501 or fewer points make reservations during the school 
holidays every year  which he said at that time represented approximately 30% of all 
of the bookings made by members with fewer than 1,501 points. And as its clear from 
Mr and Mrs Cs own holiday requests that, with the exception of a request they made 
on 18 March 2015, they were able to book holidays during half-term before making 
changes to them themselves, what happened in practice suggests that there was likely 
to be (and was) a reasonable amount of availability for Mr and Mrs C given how many 
points they had.
108. So, the fact that Mr and Mrs C had children of school age and needed to holiday at 
particular times of the year doesnt now appear to have rendered FPOC membership 
unsuitable for them. And for that reason, I dont think their decision to go ahead with 
their purchase was prejudiced as a result of the way in which the Supplier presented 
the risks and benefits of the FPOCs holiday rights with this issue in mind.
Regulation 14(3)
109. Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations prohibited the Supplier from marketing 
or selling membership of the FPOC as an investment. But Mr and Mrs C say it did 
exactly that. 
110. In response to Assessment One, Shawbrook acknowledged that the Supplier told 
Mr and Mrs C about their entitlement to a share of the net sale proceeds of the 
Allocated Property when it was sold. But Shawbrook argued that the available 
evidence made it clear that the Supplier didnt market or sell membership of the FPOC 
to Mr and Mrs C as an investment. And, in summary, it pointed to the following in 
support of that argument:
(1) The contemporaneous documentation made it clear that the FPOC was not sold 
as an investment.
(2) The sales representatives were carefully trained and monitored to ensure that 
they didnt sell FPOC membership as an investment  and had it been 
discovered that a sales representative had sold membership as an investment, 
they would have been subject to disciplinary action, including dismissal if 
necessary.
(3) SB stated in his witness statement that he would not have told Mr and Mrs C that 
FPOC membership was an investment  nor would he have given them that 
impression. And he also said that he wouldnt have given them any information 
about the Allocated Propertys current value, potential future value or potential 
profit.
(4) Had FPOC membership been sold as an investment, it is to be expected that 
certain information would normally have been provided  including the:
i. specifics of the asset being invested in;
ii. current value of the asset;
iii. predicted value of the asset at maturity; and
iv. potential percentage gain or profit.But none of this information was provided by the Supplier. And as explained in PRs 
witness statement, the sales representatives didnt have access to this information. So, 
it wasnt shared with customers.
111. Ive taken all of that into account. However, I still think the argument from Shawbrook 
on why the Supplier hadnt breached Regulation 14(3) takes too narrow a view of the 
prohibition against marketing and selling timeshares as an investment. As I said in my 
PD, when the Government consulted on the implementation of the 
Timeshare Regulations, it discussed what marketing or selling a timeshare as an 
investment might look like. The BISs Timeshare Consultation said that [a] trader must 
not market or sell a timeshare or [long-term] holiday product as an investment. For 
example, there should not be any inference that the cost of the contract would be 
recoupable at a profit in the future (see regulation 14(3)). And that seems correct to 
me because it would defeat the consumer-protection purpose of Regulation 14(3) if the 
concepts of marketing or selling a timeshare as an investment were interpreted too 
restrictively. 
112. Im not persuaded, therefore, that the prohibition in Regulation 14(3) was confined, for 
example, to using the word investment when promoting or executing a timeshare 
contract. And I think that, in an appropriate case, the prohibition may capture the 
promotion of investment features incorporated into a timeshare to persuade 
consumers to purchase  which includes leading a potential purchaser to expect a 
financial gain from a timeshare. 
113. In other words, if a supplier implied to consumers that future financial returns from a 
timeshare were a good reason to purchase it, its conduct was likely, in my view, to 
have fallen foul of the prohibition against marketing or selling the product as an 
investment.
114. In response to my PD, Shawbrook argued that there were two fundamental difficulties 
with my reasoning on the question Im concerned with here  one of which is that it 
fails to appreciate the distinction between the Supplier accurately and factually 
describing a key feature of the FPOC and actively marketing and selling it as an 
investment.
115. I recognise that, if the Supplier presented FPOC membership in a way that didnt use 
the financial interest in an allocated property to persuade consumers to purchase 
membership, that would not amount to marketing or selling the product as an 
investment, contrary to Regulation 14(3). And I accept that the mere presence of a 
share in the Allocated Property wouldnt have triggered a breach of Regulation 14(3) of 
the Timeshare Regulations, unless the Supplier leveraged it in order to entice 
Mr and Mrs C, as prospective members, into their purchase. 
116. However, as Ive suggested above, to describe the investment element(s) of a product 
in a way that suggests those features were a major reason to purchase the product 
does, in my view, amount to marketing and selling the product as an investment. And if 
the Supplier gave the prospect of a financial return on the Allocated Property  
however unpredictable it might have been  importance during its presentation to 
Mr and Mrs C by portraying their share in the Allocated Propertys ultimate proceeds of 
sale as a significant benefit, its hard to see why that wouldnt have amounted to 
marketing and selling FPOC membership as an investment. 117. The Allocated Property was plainly a major part of the FPOCs rationale and a 
justification for its cost to Mr and Mrs C. And it wouldnt have made much sense if the 
Supplier included this feature in the product without relying on it to promote sales. Yet, 
in my view, thats exactly what the Suppliers likely to have done at the Time of Sale. 
After all, it was DF who made the point that [it] is correct to say that receiving the net 
proceeds of sale is presented as an important feature of the club. It is plainly one of 
the distinguishing features of the product. And, taken against that background, when 
the Suppliers own account of how FPOC membership was likely to have been 
presented to Mr and Mrs C is considered in conjunction with their recollections, the 
Suppliers 2013/2014 Sales Induction Training, and the Suppliers website just before 
the Time of Sale, I think its more likely than not that the Supplier presented FPOC 
membership to Mr and Mrs C at the Time of Sale in a way that suggested to them that 
the Allocated Property was a major reason to purchase the product.
118. I acknowledged in my PD, as I still do, that there is evidence in this complaint that the 
Supplier made efforts to avoid specifically describing FPOC membership as an 
investment or quantifying to prospective purchasers, such as Mr and Mrs C, the 
financial value of the proprietary interest they were offered along with the investment 
considerations, risks and rewards attached to it. And I continue to recognise that there 
were disclaimers in the contemporaneous paperwork that go some way to suggesting 
that FPOC membership wasnt sold to Mr and Mrs C as an investment  which I 
accept are supported by a reasonable amount of witness evidence. 
119. The Standard Information Form, for example, stipulated the following on page 8 under 
the heading Primary Purpose: 
The purchase of Fractional Rights is for the primary purpose of holidays and is neither 
specifically for direct purposes of a trade in nor as an investment in real estate. [The 
timeshare provider] makes no representation as to the future price or value of the 
Allocated Property or any Fractional [R]ights.
120. Mr and Mrs Cs signed Members Declaration from the Time of Sale also said:
We understand that the purchase of our Fraction is for the primary purpose of 
holidays and is not specifically for direct purposes of a trade in and that [the timeshare 
provider] makes no representation as to the future price or value of the Fraction.
121. When read on their own and together, these disclaimers go some way to making the 
point that the purchase of Fractional Rights shouldnt be viewed as an investment. But 
they werent to be read on their own. They had to be read in conjunction with what else 
the Standard Information Form had to say  which included the following disclaimer 
under the heading Investment advice:
The Vendor, any sales or marketing agent and the Manager and their related 
businesses (a) are not licensed investment advisors authorized by the Financial 
Services Authority to provide investment or financial advice; (b) all information has 
been obtained solely from their own experiences as investors and is provided as 
general information only and as such it is not intended for use as a source of 
investment advice and (c) all purchasers are advised to obtain competent advice from 
legal, accounting and investment advisors to determine their own specific investment 
needs; (d) no warranty is given as to any future values or returns in respect of an 
Allocated Property.122. This disclaimer seems to have been aimed at distancing the Supplier from any 
investment advice that was given by its sales agents, telling customers to take their 
own investment advice, and repeating the point that the returns from membership from 
the FPOC werent guaranteed.
123. Yet I think it would be fair to say that, while a prospective member who read the 
disclaimer in question might well have thought that they would be wise to seek 
professional investment advice in relation to membership of the FPOC, rather than rely 
on anything they might have been told by the Supplier, it wouldnt have done much to 
dissuade them from regarding membership as an investment. In fact, I think it would 
have achieved rather the opposite.
124. Its also difficult to explain why it was necessary to include such a disclaimer in the 
Standard Information Form if there wasnt a very real risk of the Supplier marketing 
and selling membership of the FPOC as an investment given the difficulty of 
articulating the benefit of fractional ownership in a way that distinguishes it from other 
timeshares from the viewpoint of prospective members. 
125. Whats more, weighing up what happened in practice is, in my view, rarely as simple 
as looking at the contemporaneous paperwork. And given the facts and circumstances 
of this complaint, Im still not persuaded that printed disclaimers like the ones in 
paragraphs 119 and 120 above were likely to have sufficiently mitigated the 
impression created by the Supplier that FPOC membership was an appealing 
investment opportunity for Mr and Mrs C as they allege. 
126. At the Hearing, having read out the disclaimer in paragraph 119 above, I asked 
Mr and Mrs C if they queried it at the Time of Sale. And in response, Mrs C said (at 
1:07:55 of the audio recording):
We never saw that. We dont remember seeing that at all.even in the back with 
Miss whatever her name was.
127. I asked Mrs C to clarify whether she was saying that she and Mr C hadnt seen the 
Standard Information Form in its entirety or the disclaimer in question. And in reply, 
Mrs C said the following (from 1:08:14 of the audio recording):
I think weve seen this. Weve seen the document. But you dont get time to read 
through all the documents. Obviously weve seen it since weve done [this complaint]. 
But I dont know if we saw it at the time. [] We must have seen it. But we werent 
given any time to read it or ask any questions about it.[] We wouldnt have read it 
through anyway because we werent given the chance, the opportunity to go through 
anything in any detail because it was half past four, quarter to fivethey were 
closingif you dont take the deal, then the deals not the same on the next day. It was 
all just a little bit pressured.128. I then pointed out that there was a similar disclaimer in the one-page 
Members Declaration signed by Mr and Mrs C (see paragraph 120 above). And I 
asked them if they had queried that at the Time of Sale. Mrs C was the first to respond, 
saying (from 1:09:57 of the audio recording):
Again, we signed itWhen youve been in a placeand its very difficult to try and 
explain itwhen youve been sat inside somewhere and told how wonderful this 
product is and then youve gone outside and other people have confirmed exactly the 
samethe chap who was sat with us who was training, he also had invested years 
and years and years agohe said there wouldnt be all these people investing if it was 
not a good profit, not a good product rather. So, by the time you get to doing any 
paperwork, 6 hours down the line, your heads banging and you reallyyou dont have 
time to take it all in. Youve gone through and done all the financial paperwork, which 
is not just sign here and tick the box herethat you read through. But this, yes we 
signed it, but we never got to read it. We were told everything in there is what has 
been discussed. And you take people, stupidly at their word. 
Mr C then said (from 1:11:12 of the audio recording):
I suppose, when youre done doing it, when we got finished, then we were supposed 
to go back, get changed, sort the kids outdo this that and the otherthen we were 
meeting this chap later on to have this dinner with him. They were paying for all this 
was [the Supplier]. So that we could go and have this dinner with him. And you get sat 
talking to him and [] he was still telling us how good it sort of was. And he was a nice 
chap and so you believe what people sort of tell you.
And Mrs C followed this with (at 1:11:50 of the audio recording):
The next day around the pool youd question people laid around the poolare you a 
memberhave you bought inyes, its a really good package, a really good deal.
Mr C then said: So we didnt feel out of sync with anyone if you know what I mean. 
And shortly after that, Mrs C said (at 1:12:04 of the audio recording):
But as for signing and reading it, yes we signed it but there was no way we read 
through that. Stupidly. Then, when we went into the back, we didnt get the 
opportunity. Literally, you were in there for a couple of minutes, signed everything and 
then you were out.
129. I have no reason to doubt the honesty of what Mr and Mrs C told me above. And I 
havent seen enough to doubt the credibility of what they said above either. As Ive 
said before, slide 55 of the Suppliers 2013/2014 Sales Induction Training suggests 
that sales representatives were encouraged to try and complete their sales on the day 
of their presentations  which is consistent with what Mrs C said during the Hearing. 
Furthermore, as Mr and Mrs C were on a promotional holiday at the Time of Sale, the 
Supplier was clearly invested in the sale. And as it looks like the Suppliers sales 
representatives were working in a high-pressured environment that was likely to have 
coloured the sale, I dont find it hard to believe that Mr and Mrs C didnt properly read 
the Standard Information Form and didnt pay that much attention to the 
Members Declaration because they werent given or didnt feel like they had the time 
and space to do so.130. Following the Hearing, Shawbrook submitted that Mr and Mrs Cs recollections were 
unreliable because it says they were inconsistent with the initial allegations and 
internally inconsistent. And one of the examples Shawbrook gave concerned 
Mr and Mrs Cs answer to a question I asked during the Hearing in relation to 
differences between the Suppliers alleged representations in their initial witness 
statement and those set out in the Letter of Claim. In Shawbrooks view, Mr and Mrs C 
couldnt adequately explain why their initial witness statement didnt include the 
alleged representations at paragraph 72(a) and (e) of my PD (audio recording 24:50)  
which are the same as (1) and (5) in the relevant paragraph below. As far as 
Shawbrook was concerned, the explanation Mr and Mrs C gave during the Hearing 
(i.e., that they had not yet located the handwritten note) didnt justify the absence of 
the alleged representations in their initial witness statement as the note in question 
didnt relate to those representations.
131. When I asked Mr and Mrs C at the start of the Hearing to describe, in broad terms, 
what the Supplier had said to them at the Time of Sale that led them to believe that 
FPOC membership was an investment, Mrs C said the following (from 10:12 of the 
audio recording)  which Mr C agreed with:
When we were sat having the sales pitch, um, SB  who I couldnt remember the 
name of []  he actually told us that it was an investment. [] We wouldnt have 
invested in something thatwe wouldnt have put the money in for a timeshare 
basically. During the conversation we were told it was a no brainer. We were also told 
it was bricks and mortar because it was part of a property we were buying and that 
would be invested for 19 years. And at the end of the 19 years, the property would be 
sold  albeit a fraction of the property would be sold []  and we would then receive 
the money from the sale at the end of the 19 years unless we wanted to reinvest for a 
further 19 years.
(My emphasis added)
132. Just over 17 minutes into the Hearing, I then asked Mr and Mrs C if all of the 
representations below were made at the Time of Sale. And on two separate occasions 
during the Hearing Mr and Mrs C told me they were (at 17:09 and 22:45 of the audio 
recording):
(1)You will have [a] share in a specific property in a specific resort;
(2)You are buying bricks and mortar;
(3)[You] would get [your] investment back, plus £5,769 profit;
(4)This is a fantastic investment; and
(5)Property value only goes up
133. When I then asked Mr and Mrs C if they could remember the point(s) at which the 
representations above were made at the Time of Sale, Mrs C explained that the sales 
presentation started with a focus on their holiday habits before saying the following 
(from 17:57 of the audio recording):At the end of that, he [i.e., SB] dealt with some figures. He didnt show us any figures. 
[] And thats when he said well, all of the money that youre spending on your 
holidays is wasted money. What you can do is you can do it this way and then 
you are investing in a property for the future. So, thats where the investment part 
came inthat we were spending £10,000 every time we went on a holiday and in 
return all we got was the holiday. [] So, he suggested that doing it this way, we 
would get the accommodation free for a holiday [..] but there would bewhat goes 
back into. What he said was that what went back inif we had one part of that building 
and there were, I dont know, 1,000 parts (because thats how he explained it), if there 
were a thousand bricks in that property, we were buying a brick. Albeit one brick, we 
still own that brick. So, the other people who owned the however many bricks also had 
the same rights over that property as what we had. So, we did quizif theres so many 
owning a brick in the property, how could it be sold in 19 years and how could our 
money be put back out there and how would we be refunded our investment. And he 
said that they were always selling parts of properties. And those were the words he 
actually used. They were always selling bricks of the properties. So, that covers why 
we believe we were buying into a property. And he took us out and showed us the 
apartment where we were buying the brick for want of a better term.
(My emphasis added)
134. As (1) and (5) above were in the Letter of Claim but werent in Mr and Mrs Cs initial 
written testimony, I asked them to explain why they thought that was the case before 
asking them if the exact words in (1) above were used. This is what Mrs C said:
Ill start back from the beginning. [] We went to see [PR] way back. And we went 
through little bits that we had in our paperwork. We went through and wrote down 
everything as per [the initial witness statement]. This is what we started with. Now, 
when weve sat and gone through our stuff, our diaries and things like that, weve 
come across more stuff. For instance, the piece of paper that [Mr C] had written the 
figure on. I honestly cant say how hes come to that figure of £5,769. But there were 
certain questions written down on that piece of paper that, at the time of writing [the 
initial witness statement], I couldnt remember that hed written that and I didnt know 
that we still had that piece of paper []. So, when we said about the shares, thats 
when they said you were buying a part of the property. You were buying a brick of the 
property. So, we were believing thats what we were buying was a share of the 
property. (from 24:50 of the audio recording)
I mean, were talking however many years ago. But, in my mind, that is what we were 
toldthat we would be buying a share of a property. A brick of a property. [] We 
never ever set out to buy a timeshare. I actually sat down and asked that particular 
question. Is this a timeshare we are buying? And he said no. You were buying into 
property. [] We were guaranteed that this was not a timeshare. This waswe were 
physically buying something. (from 26:32 of the audio recording)
135. I dont doubt that trying to recall what was said and/or done at the Time of Sale would 
have been an increasing challenge for Mr and Mrs C as more and more time passed 
by. And while the Suppliers alleged representations differed in their initial witness 
statement and the Letter of Claim, having now heard from Mr and Mrs C, Im satisfied 
that, on balance, its more likely to be the case that their allegations evolved after their 
initial witness statement as they tried to piece together more of what had been said 
and/or done by the Supplier at the Time of Sale  which is something I dont find 
surprising or unusual.136. Shawbrook also says that Mr and Mrs Cs answers to my questions during the Hearing 
on Mr Cs contemporaneous handwritten note are examples of the inconsistencies its 
concerned about.
137. At roughly 30 minutes into the Hearing, I asked Mr C if the contents of his handwritten 
note were captured in their entirety at the Time of Sale. This is what he said (from 
30:30 of the audio recording):
I wanted to know what we got back after 19 years. [] As he was going through and 
talking, thats when I would probably write downI did write downthat £5,769. I dont 
know how we got to that figure. But through talking, and what he was saying and 
explaining, for whatever reason, that figure got written down. So we got what we would 
get from the propertywhat we will get in 19 years when they sold itplus this extra 
bit. Because thats whatyou knowwhat do you get back after 19 years. It was a 
question. It was there for me to ask him at some stage while we were talking. And so 
thats what was written down.
138. Mr C acknowledged that he couldnt recall exactly how the £5,769 was arrived at. And 
both he and Mrs C accepted that they werent given a guaranteed return by the 
Supplier  all of which Shawbrook relies on to support its assertion that Mr and Mrs Cs 
allegation that FPOC membership had been marketed and sold as an investment 
lacked merit.
139. However, after Mr C acknowledged that he couldnt recall exactly how the £5,769 was 
arrived at, this is what Mrs C went on to say a couple of minutes later (from 32:36 of 
the audio recording):
I was sat with [Mr C] while that conversation was happening. As I can recall, [Mr C] 
had put down what the cost of the property was going to cost us, he asked the 
question what would we get back in 19 years and so SB had put down, well if you used 
to bank in the UK.at the moment theyre at 0.01% (whatever they were at), you 
would end up with this much back after 19 years. If you use this as an investment, you 
will get back this after your 19 years. But I cant tell you the percentage he worked on 
to get to that. I dont know how he found that figure out. 
140. I then asked Mr and Mrs C to tell me what made them believe such an accurate 
estimation. It was in response to that question that Mr and Mrs C accepted that they 
werent given a guaranteed return by the Supplier. But Mrs C also said the following 
(from 44:35 of the audio recording):
He couldnt say that was definitely what well get but if we work on the guidelines of 
where we were with interest rates then, that is the possible amount we could receive. 
[] We would be able to holiday well with our children up until such time that we 
needed that money to then retire. We didnt invest into thinking we were going to come 
out with twice as much money as we put in. That wasnt why we were doing it. We 
were doing it so that we were investing that money so that we could have a good 
standard of holidays and because that money was safe in that piece of property. And 
at the end of the 19 years, yes we would still have maintenance to pay on that property 
through the 19 years, but at the end of the 19 years we would get at least what we had 
put into it as an investment for us to use for our retirement. [] That is the sole reason 
why we did it. The money was safe somewhere doing somethingearning maybe a 
bit, maybe notbut at the end of the day, as long as we got that bit, we werent losing 
out we were only gaining. 141. So, when I consider Mr and Mrs Cs testimony as a whole, while I acknowledge that 
they werent always able to answer my questions as clearly and consistently as they 
might have done had they been asked to recall what was said and/or done at the 
Time of Sale only weeks or months after the event, Im not persuaded to overturn my 
PD for the reasons Shawbrook suggests I should.
142. In my experience, inconsistencies are a normal part of trying to recollect an event that 
happened a long time ago and must be taken into account when assessing the 
reliability of Mr and Mrs Cs evidence as a whole. And inconsistencies dont 
automatically exclude the possibility that there is a core of acceptable evidence within 
the overall body of a complainants testimony (Arroyo v Equion Energia Ltd (formerly 
BP Exploration Co (Colombia) Ltd) [2016] EWHC 1699 (TCC).  So, even if there are 
parts of Mr and Mrs Cs testimony that could be clearer or might be more difficult to 
explain, I shouldnt simply ignore everything else they had to say about what they were 
told at the Time of Sale and why they purchased FPOC membership. 
143. Its also clear from case law that the credibility of an allegation can be assessed by 
considering how inherently probable it was and/or is. In Onassis v Vergottis [1968] 10 
WLUK 101, Lord Pearce referred to the need to look at "probabilities", as well as 
contemporaneous documents and admitted or incontrovertible facts, when weighing 
the credibility of a witness's evidence (see page 431). In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas SA 
(The Ocean Frost) [1986] 2 W.L.R. 1063, Goff LJ also referred to looking at the 
overall probabilities when ascertaining the truth (see page 57). And in Gestmin, which 
is the court case Shawbrook relied on after Assessment One to argue that the correct 
approach to take to the evidence in this complaint is to prefer the contemporaneous 
documentation, Leggatt J suggested in paragraph 22 that factual findings should be 
based on "inferences drawn from the documentary evidence and known or probable 
facts". (My emphasis added)
144. As I said in my PD, the Suppliers 2013/2014 Sales Induction Training covered how 
membership of the FPOC worked on slide 27. It didnt say much. Yet it did say You 
Buy A Fraction Of [the Suppliers] Property. I acknowledge the language was neutral 
in nature. But I remain of the view that the focus on the relevant slide clearly wasnt on 
holidays; it was on the investment element of membership (i.e., the share in the 
Allocated Property). And as neither Shawbrook nor the Supplier have told me that the 
Induction Training wasnt in place to help the sales representatives sell FPOC 
membership in 2014, I still think that the slide in question was likely to have informed 
what the focus was on when the sales representatives framed membership to 
Mr and Mrs C.
145. As I also said in my PD, the timeshare providers website, just before the Time of Sale, 
also stated on its Members Page that Vacation Club membership also underpins our 
most innovative products, such as [the timeshare providers] Fractional Property 
Owners Club which combines flexible, carefree holiday taking and a stake in property 
ownership, all in one. And as the Supplier chose to advance property ownership as 
a key benefit in this way on its website (which neither Shawbrook nor the Supplier 
have persuaded me wasnt the case in response to my PD), that suggests the same 
would have been done by the Supplier in person. The Allocated Property was owned 
by FPOC members only to the extent that they ultimately had the right to participate in 
the net proceeds from its sale.  They didnt have any preferential rights to stay in their 
Allocated Property or use it in any other way. So, the relevant notion of property 
ownership was confined to its potential investment benefit.146. With that likely to be the case, I also agree with the High Courts comments in 
Shawbrook & BPF v FOS when, in paragraphs 77 and 78, Mrs Justice Collins Rice 
said the following: 
[] I endorse the observation made by Mr Jaffey KC, Counsel for BPF, that, whatever 
the position in principle, it is apparently a major challenge in practice for timeshare 
companies to market fractional ownership timeshares consistently with Reg.14(3). [] 
Getting the governance principles and paperwork right may not be quite enough. 
The problem comes back to the difficulty in articulating the intrinsic benefit of 
fractional ownership over any other timeshare from an individual consumer 
perspective. 
147. Yet, in this complaint, looking at the evidence in the round, I think the Supplier failed to 
negotiate this difficulty successfully when it sold FPOC membership to Mr and Mrs C.
148. Overall, therefore, when I consider Mr and Mrs Cs testimony as a whole, and in 
conjunction with a combination of evidence from the Supplier that, in my view, adds 
credence to the allegation in question, I think its more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs C were led by the Supplier to expect a financial gain from FPOC 
membership as an inducement to them to purchase. And with that being the case, I 
still think the Supplier breached Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations at the 
Time of Sale. 
The Relevant Debtor-Creditor Relationship
149. In response to my PD, PR argued that Mr and Mrs C were unable to afford FPOC 
membership if they couldnt use it effectively for holidays. But as neither PR nor 
Mr and Mrs C have said much to persuade me that the lending was unaffordable for 
Mr C given his financial circumstances at the Time of Sale (or provided any supporting 
evidence to bolster what they have said), Im not persuaded to uphold the complaint on 
this basis. 
150. PR also argued that Shawbrooks failure to follow the FLAs Lending Code meant that 
its own acts or omissions created an unfair relationship under Section 140A. But for 
reasons that will become apparent, this wouldnt change the outcome of this complaint. 
So, it isnt necessary to make any formal findings on this point.
151. Insofar as Shawbrooks response to my PD is now relevant following 
Shawbrook & BPF v FOS, it argues that no unfair relationship arose even if the 
Supplier did sell FPOC membership to Mr and Mrs C as an investment because they 
got what they bargained for: significant holiday rights (during the school holidays) and 
investment potential.
152. The phrase got what they bargained for seems to me to apply to a situation when 
parties negotiate and, in turn, know what they stood to give and receive in return. 
Indeed, the bottom line for anyone investing their money is to avoid investments that 
they dont understand. But I think thats exactly what happened at the Time of Sale 
because Mr and Mrs C werent given any helpful information about the 
Allocated Property. And with that being so, it must follow that they cant have got what 
they bargained for.
153. Shawbrook also said that I had adopted a rigid but for approach to causation when 
determining whether the matter in question gave rise to unfairness  which was the 
wrong approach to take. 154. But I disagree. While I found that there had been a number of regulatory breaches by 
the Supplier (some of which now no longer apply in light of Shawbrook & BPF v FOS), 
I didnt argue that such breaches alone caused a particular loss to Mr and Mrs C. 
Instead, it was and is the impact on them that led and leads me to conclude that the 
relationship between Mr C and Shawbrook was unfair. 
155. As the High Court said in paragraph 185 of Shawbrook & BPF v FOS:
Breaching Reg.14(3) by selling a timeshare as an investment  whether doing so 
explicitly or implicitly, whether in a slideshow or in a to-and-fro conversation with 
individual consumers  is conduct that knocks away the central consumer protection 
safeguard the law provides for consumers buying timeshares. The ombudsmen held 
the breach in each case to be serious/substantial and the constituent 
conduct causative of the legal relations entered into: timeshare and loan. As such, it is 
hard to fault, or discern error of law in, a conclusion that the relationship could scarcely 
have been more unfair. It was constituted by the acts/omissions of the timeshare 
companies in the antecedent negotiations leading up to the contractual commitments. 
Those are acts/omissions for which the banks are 'responsible' by operation of law. 
The timeshare companies and lenders clearly benefited overall thereby and the 
consumers, as the ombudsmen found as a matter of fact, were disproportionately 
burdened. No error of law appears from the ombudsmen's conclusions in any of these 
respects. I am satisfied their findings of unfairness were properly open to them on this 
basis alone.
156. Indeed, as Mr and Mrs C have strongly intimated more than once that they wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the purchase had the Supplier not leveraged a share in the 
Allocated Property in order to entice them into purchasing FPOC membership, Im 
persuaded that a court would find the relationship between Mr C and Shawbrook 
unfair.
157. I recognise, as I did in my PD, that Mr and Mrs Cs purchase at the Time of Sale 
wasnt their first encounter with the Supplier. They had purchased trial membership in 
2011 before cancelling it within the cooling off period. But, as Ive said before, that was 
a very different, much simpler product that only offered Mr and Mrs C five weeks worth 
of holidays. And as their trial membership was sold to them roughly three years before 
they purchased FPOC membership at the Time of Sale, I dont think they could have 
reasonably known or assumed certain facts about the FPOC because of some 
retained knowledge and experience from 2011 even if they had been told about it at 
that time. 
The October 2014 Upgrade
158. On 27 October 2014, Mr and Mrs C upgraded their FPOC membership, paying an 
additional sum and adding a further 550 Fractional Points to their existing 1,500 by 
entering into a different purchase agreement, thereby replacing the FPOC Purchase 
Agreement  though the loan from Shawbrook remained in place after the upgrade. 
159. As a result of that upgrade, it was and is necessary to consider whether the 
relationship between Mr C and Shawbrook remained unfair.160. In response to Assessment One, Shawbrook argued that, even if the relationship 
between itself and Mr C was unfair as a result of their purchase at the Time of Sale, it 
was no longer unfair8. And it made this argument because it said that, when they 
upgraded their membership, they received a £19,500 credit for it from the Supplier 
(despite only having originally paid £18,298, including the first years annual 
management charge of £779). And as Mr and Mrs C also received £2,160 from the 
Travel Saving Bonus, Shawbrook argued that they made a profit of £3,362 within 8 
months. 
161. When coming to my PD, I recognised that, on the face of it, it might look like 
Mr and Mrs C hadnt suffered a loss in light of their upgrade. But I wasnt persuaded 
the argument was as open and shut as Shawbrook had suggested it was. And that 
remains the case now.
162. While the Supplier gave Mr and Mrs C credit of £19,500 for their original FPOC 
membership, Id point out again that the credit in question wasnt the equivalent of 
cash. It was a deduction from a starting price set by the Supplier itself for 
Mr and Mrs Cs upgrade. And as I still dont know what the market value was of the 
allocated property tied to their upgrade, there still isnt any evidence that the starting 
price of their upgrade represented the objective value of the benefits under the 
upgrade agreement, as opposed to a commercial opening position from which the 
Supplier would and could profitably offer deductions or discounts such as that granted 
to Mr and Mrs C. And for that reason, Im not persuaded that the upgrade agreement 
improved their position financially, despite the notional profit Shawbrook pointed to. 
163. Nonetheless, I have thought once more about the extent to which responsibility for the 
situation after the upgrade must be laid at the door of the second supplier and 
Lender 3. After all, the upgrade was agreed to after a presentation by that supplier, 
who may have repeated a similar process to that which Mr and Mrs C went through at 
the Time of Sale. The upgrade was also paid for by funding from Lender 3 who is likely 
to bear responsibility for any acts and/or omissions in the precontractual presentation. 
And for that reason, Im not persuaded that Shawbrook should have to answer for the 
financial consequences specifically associated with the 550 additional Fractional 
Points Mr and Mrs C purchased in October 2014.
164. Formally, the agreement entered into in October 2014 was a new contract that 
superseded the old one. And this is the position Shawbrook takes in its response to my 
PD. But as I said in my provisional findings, in my view, the purpose of 
Mr and Mrs Cs upgrade was to continue and supplement their existing FPOC 
membership. And when Mr and Mrs C purchased membership at the Time of Sale, it 
looks like it had always been likely that they would upgrade their membership in this 
way.
165. Mr and Mrs C say that they upgraded their FPOC membership in order to take 
holidays in Florida, for which their original 1,500 Fractional Points were insufficient. 
And I still think that was the main reason they chose to purchase more points. 
166. When Mr and Mrs C completed their Holiday Survey at the Time of Sale, they gave 
Florida as an answer to two questions: (1) Realistically, where do you see yourself 
8 Patel v Patel [2009] EWHC 3264 QB It was held by the court that determining whether or not the relationship complained of 
was unfair had to be made having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially relevant matters up to the time of 
making the determination  which was date of the trial in the case of an existing relationship or otherwise the date the 
relationship ended. Mr C made his last loan repayment on 8 May 2016. So, this is the date at which a court would have to 
determine whether the relationship in question was unfair; see Smith v RBS [2023] UKSC 34.holidaying over the next ten years? and (2) If you won a dream holiday anywhere in 
the world, which two places would you choose? And on the Holiday Planner 
completed at that time, Florida was listed as an example of a possible holiday 
destination in December 2015. However, as the example suggested that it was only 
available in exchange for 1,750 Fractional Points, it was clear to both Mr and Mrs C 
and the Supplier that they didnt have enough Fractional Points longer term (putting to 
one side the time-limited 500 bonus points they were given when they first purchased 
membership of the FPOC, which were only allocated once a year for the first three 
years). 
167. Mr and Mrs C also say that they were told in October 2014 that they didnt have 
enough Fractional Points to holiday in Florida despite, it seems, having the benefit of 
the bonus points awarded to them earlier that year. But this wasnt, in substance, a 
fresh beginning so much as a fairly routine upgrade. Persuading existing customers, 
such as Mr and Mrs C, to supplement their points in this way was seen as a feature of 
the Suppliers business model as the following extract from the timeshare providers 
business plan suggests: 
On average clients do buy further product[s] as initially they may not purchase 
sufficient [points] to cover all their holiday needs until they are fully confident in the 
system. It is very much in our commercial interest to ensure that clients are loyal and 
happy - we believe that this propensity to upgrade substantiates that we are managing 
to keep the right balance. 
168. With all of that being the case, therefore, I think the upgrade agreement was really just 
a top-up of Mr and Mrs Cs Fractional Points by rolling over those that they had and 
leaving them as members of the FPOC with enough points to enable them to holiday in 
Florida  albeit while also carrying an interest in the net sale proceeds of a different 
allocated property. And as the very function of the Suppliers £19,500 credit was to roll 
over Mr and Mrs Cs existing Fractional Points into their upgrade, and as the loan from 
Shawbrook remained in place after October 2014, Im still not persuaded that what 
happened on the 27th of that month was a fresh start, such that it was the exclusive 
cause of everything that followed. In other words, I still think that Mr and Mrs Cs 
original purchase under the FPOC Purchase Agreement and the loan from Shawbrook 
had ongoing financial consequences for them, which continued the unfair relationship 
with Shawbrook. And for that reason, Shawbrook is still answerable for them, in my 
view.
Detriment
169. Shawbrook argues that concluding that Mr C suffered financially fails to take into 
account the significant benefits he and Mrs C obtained by entering into their 
FPOC Purchase Agreement  which included an annual holiday entitlement and a 
beneficial interest in the Allocated Property.
170. But Shawbrook hasnt submitted any supporting evidence to demonstrate that, 
objectively speaking, Mr and Mrs Cs share in the Allocated Property was worth more 
at the time of their Upgrade in October 2014 than it was at the Time of Sale  nor has 
Shawbrook persuaded me that they benefited from membership to such an extent in 
some other way that Mr Cs overall position wasnt prejudiced by the Suppliers breach 
of Regulation 14(3) of the Timeshare Regulations. Instead, its clear to me that Mr C 
ended up borrowing and repaying a substantial sum of money while he and Mrs C 
entered into a long-term financial commitment that they wouldnt have subjected 
themselves to had the Supplier not leveraged a share in the Allocated Property in 
order to entice them into purchasing FPOC membership. So, Im persuaded that Mr Cs position was prejudiced by the Suppliers breach of Regulation 14(3).
Conclusion
171. Given the facts and circumstances of this complaint, I think its likely a court would find 
the relationship between Shawbrook and Mr C unfair for the purposes of Section 140A. 
And taking everything into account, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint on that basis.  
172. In addition, putting aside the question of how a court might consider the matter under 
Section 140A, Ive also looked at what happened as a question of what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, bearing in mind that the Supplier 
was Shawbrooks statutory agent for the purposes of its pre-contractual negotiations. 
Looking at the matter in that way, in light of the Suppliers breach of Regulation 14(3) 
of the Timeshare Regulations and the impact that had on Mr and Mrs Cs purchasing 
decision, I also consider it fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Cs complaint on the basis 
that (even leaving Section 140A to one side) he was unfairly treated by the Supplier 
acting on Shawbrooks behalf.
Fair Compensation
173. When I find that a business has done something wrong, I would normally direct that 
business  as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position 
they would be in now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would 
mean putting right the unfairness that stemmed from the Suppliers acts and omissions 
that I find had breached its obligations. 
174. DISP 3.7.1 R of the FCAs Handbook states that, when a complaint is determined in 
favour of the complainant (as is currently the case on this occasion), my determination 
may include a money award, an interest award or a costs award against Shawbrook  
or another direction. And DISP 3.7.2 R states that a money award may be an amount 
that I consider fair redress for one or more of the following (whether or not a court 
would award compensation):
(1) Financial loss (including consequential or prospective loss); or
(2) Pain and suffering; or
(3) Damage to reputation; or
(4) Distress or inconvenience 
175. I must, of course, take into account Section 140B of the CCA as relevant law. It sets 
out a wide range of extensive powers that a court can exercise if it finds that a 
relationship was unfair. The court is given a wide discretion on how to use those 
powers. If it decides to make an order this should reflect and be proportionate to the 
nature and degree of the unfairness which the court has found; and it should not give 
the claimant a windfall but should approximate as closely as possible the overall 
position that would have applied had the matters giving rise to the perceived 
unfairness not taken place.9
9 Carney v NM Rothschild and Sons [2018] at paragraph 101. 176. So, with all of this in mind, and having found that Mr C (and Mrs C) would not have 
purchased FPOC membership at the Time of Sale but for the Suppliers failing (which 
means he wouldnt have borrowed any money from Shawbrook), I think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put him back in the position he would have been in had he not 
entered into the FPOC Purchase Agreement and associated credit agreement, 
provided Mr and Mrs C agree to either assign to Shawbrook their 1,500 Fractional 
Points or hold them on trust for Shawbrook if that can be achieved. 
177. Heres what I think needs to be done to compensate Mr C with that being the case  
whether or not a court would award such compensation:
(1) Shawbrook should refund Mr Cs repayments to it under the Credit Agreement  
covering the £17,519 Purchase Price and Membership/Dues of £779 (which 
was, as I understand it, the first years annual management charge).
(2) Shawbrook should deduct any promotional giveaways that Mr and Mrs C used or 
took advantage of  like the monthly Travel Savings Bonus payments for 
instance  before they upgraded on 27 October 2014.
(The difference between (1) and (2) are the Net Repayments)
(3) Simple interest* at 8% per annum should be added to each of the 
Net Repayments from the date each one was made until the date Shawbrook 
settles this complaint.
(4) Shawbrook should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit 
file in connection with the loan it provided at the Time of Sale. 
178. However, as I dont think that the effects of the unfairness in question ended when 
Mr and Mrs C upgraded their FPOC membership in October 2014, and as I think that 
their original 1,500 points were essentially rolled over into their upgrade and had 
ongoing financial consequences for them, the compensation needs to reflect that. So, 
in my view, Shawbrook also needs to refund the proportion of the management 
charges payable after 27 October 2014 that relates to those 1,500 Fractional Points  
which, being 73% of the 2,050 Mr and Mrs C ended up with, means: 
(1) Shawbrook should refund 73% of the annual management charge(s) paid by 
Mr and Mrs C from 27 October 2014 onwards less a deduction for the holiday 
they took in October 2015 using Fractional Points  which I discuss in 
paragraphs 179 to 185 below (the Net Ongoing Charges).
(2) Simple interest* at 8% per annum should be added to the Net Ongoing Charges 
from the date each charge was paid until the date Shawbrook settles this 
complaint. 
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If thats the case, the business 
must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
179. Mr and Mrs C used their Fractional Points to holiday in October half-term 2015 (the 
Half-Term Holiday). So, when I set out redress in my PD, I asked both parties to 
provide me with their submissions (along with supporting evidence) on what they 
thought the market value was of that holiday as I thought that needed to be deducted 
from Mr Cs compensation to avoid giving him an unjustified windfall.180. Shawbrook didnt respond in specific terms to this request  though it says that 
returning to Mr C the management charges would be unjust because they enabled him 
and Mrs C to reserve holidays in October 2015 and 2016. But being able to reserve 
holidays is not the same as taking them. And I cant see that there was an opportunity 
cost to the Supplier because the reservations werent cancelled, for example. So, the 
fact that Mr and Mrs C were able to provisionally book a holiday in 2016 (that was 
subsequently cancelled by the Supplier because Mr and Mrs C chose not to confirm 
the booking) is no reason, in my view, to withhold the management charge they paid 
that year let alone in other years when they wouldnt have paid such charges in the 
first place had Mr and Mrs C not purchased FPOC membership. 
181. PR says that the Half-Term Holiday was worth £1,000 because it was the end of the 
season and the flights and transfers had been paid for separately. But neither PR nor 
Mr and Mrs C have provided any evidence to support this submission despite my 
request for it. 
182. In contrast, Mr and Mrs Cs Holiday Planner from the Time of Sale set out the cost of a 
number of different holidays in 2014 and 2015, some of which suggest that £1,000 
may not reflect the market value of the Half-Term Holiday. Those holidays included:
(1) £1,200 for a one-week holiday in a one-bedroom apartment for up to 4 people at 
the timeshare providers Paradise resort (Tenerife) in week 7 of 2014  which, 
according to the FPOC Owners Guide relevant to the Time of Sale, was the 
week commencing 15 February 2014 i.e., half-term, at least for some schools.    
(2) £1,200 for a one-week holiday in a single two-bedroom apartment for up to 6 
people at the timeshare providers Ponta Grande resort (Portugal) in week 43 of 
2015  which, according to the FPOC Owners Guidance relevant to the Time of 
Sale, was the week commencing 24 October 2015 i.e., half term, at least for 
some schools.
183. But I recognise that the costs of these holidays on Mr and Mrs Cs Holiday Planner 
were provided by the Supplier itself and may not represent the objective value of them 
and cant necessarily be taken at face value and used as a reliable guide as to the 
value of the Half-Term Holiday.
184. With all of that being the case, Im not persuaded that Ive seen enough evidence from 
either side to accurately determine the likely market value of the Half-Term Holiday.
185. As a result, I must paint with a broad brush here. I can see that the annual 
management charge paid by Mr and Mrs C for 2015 was €2,097  which was roughly 
£1,600 based on the Euro to Pound exchange rate on 1 January 2015. That was a 
charge that they had to pay that year, like every year of their FPOC membership, if 
they wanted to use their Fractional Points to holiday. It strikes me as a practical and 
proportionate reflection of Mr and Mrs Cs use of their membership in 2015. And in the 
absence of any information to help me more accurately calculate the market value of 
the Half-Term Holiday, I think it would be fair and reasonable to allow Shawbrook to 
withhold 73% of that particular charge in order to reflect Mr and Mrs Cs usage that 
year.186. Both sides told me in response to my PD that Mr and Mrs Cs Fractional Rights hadnt 
yet been permanently forfeited. Instead, the Supplier said that they had been 
suspended in line with Rule 5.5.1 of the FPOC Rules. If thats still the case, I take 
Shawbrooks point that Mr and Mrs C are still entitled to reinstate their FPOC 
membership  which means that the remedy I had proposed in my PD does risk 
providing Mr C with an unjustified windfall. So, to mitigate the risk of that happening, as 
Ive already said, Mr and Mrs C will have to agree to hold the benefit of 1,500 
Fractional Points for Shawbrook or assign them to Shawbrook, if that can be achieved.
187. However, as the Supplier may also pursue Mr and Mrs C for other costs in addition to 
the annual management charges arising from their FPOC membership, there is also 
the possibility of continuing detriment that I think it fair to address. So, in keeping with 
and in addition to what Ive said above, Shawbrook should indemnify Mr C against 
73% of any other liabilities accruing from 27 October 2014 onwards as a result of his 
and Mrs Cs ownership of Fractional Rights. That, together with what Ive said in the 
paragraph above, will achieve, as closely as I can in this complaint, the same financial 
situation for Mr C as if he and Mrs C had never joined the FPOC in the first place.
188. Shawbrook also argued, in response to my PD, that the application of 8% simple 
interest provides Mr C with an unjustified windfall because it says that there was no 
reasonable basis on which to suggest that it reflects the rate he and Mrs C could have 
earned in a savings account. 
189. 8% simple interest per annum is the rate of interest we normally award when directing 
a business to pay compensation. Its also the current interest rate on judgment debts 
and Parliament hasnt deemed it necessary to change it. It is a higher rate than 
Mr and Mrs C might have achieved on deposit as saving accounts had been one of the 
worst performing ways of investing money for some time before the Bank of Englands 
recent rate rises. So, I recognise that 8% simple interest is likely to be more than Mr C 
would have earned in most saving accounts during much of the period in question. 
190. However, the size of Mr and Mrs C return depends entirely on how they would have 
chosen to invest their money had they not purchased FPOC membership. Yet 
Shawbrook hasnt explained why it thought and thinks that a savings account would 
have been Mr and Mrs C preferred option given the rates of return on offer before 
February 2014 when there is little if any evidence to suggest that a savings account is 
where they would have put their money.
191. Whats more, its often difficult to determine with any certainty what the opportunity 
cost is to someone when theyre deprived of money. So, I think 8% simple interest per 
annum reflects the fact that the money in question might have influenced a wide range 
of decisions by Mr and Mrs C about spending and borrowing over the relevant period 
of time. And for that reason, I think its a reasonable rate of interest to award.
192. PR says that Mr and Mrs Cs FPOC membership led to a substantial financial loss and 
caused them sleepless nights, anxiety, lots of distress and uncertainty  which it says 
merits a separate award to Mr C. But I disagree. The compensation Ive set out above 
already reflects the loss suffered. And while I dont doubt they may have found the 
complaints process difficult at times, as Mr and Mrs C havent elaborated on what PR 
says in response to my PD, Ive seen nothing particularly persuasive to suggest that 
their interactions with Shawbrook during the course of this complaint have had an 
impact beyond the usual frustrations of a complaints process. 193. PR also argues that Mr and Mrs C have incurred legal fees because they could not 
have provided such focused submissions without access to specialist legal help. So, it 
says that redress should include the legal costs theyve reasonably incurred. While 
some of PRs submissions may have been helpful to Mr and Mrs C, the same cant be 
said for all of them. And as it hasnt explained why the work it has carried out on this 
particular complaint justifies a separate award for its fees, Im not persuaded to make 
such an award.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to 
compensate Mr C in line with everything Ive said above, which in summary, includes taking 
the following steps provided Mr and Mrs C agree to either assign to Shawbrook their 1,500 
Fractional Points or hold them on trust for Shawbrook if that can be achieved:
(1) Shawbrook should refund Mr Cs repayments to it under the Credit Agreement  
covering the £17,519 Purchase Price and Membership/Dues of £779 (which was, 
as I understand it, the first years annual management charge).
(2) Shawbrook should deduct any promotional giveaways that Mr and Mrs C used or took 
advantage of  like the monthly Travel Savings Bonus payments for instance  before 
they upgraded on 27 October 2014.
(The difference between (1) and (2) are the Net Repayments)
(3) Simple interest* at 8% per annum should be added to each of the Net Repayments 
from the date each one was made until the date Shawbrook settles this complaint.
(4) Shawbrook should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in 
connection with the loan it provided at the Time of Sale. 
(5) Shawbrook should refund to Mr C 73% of the annual management charge(s) he and 
Mrs C paid from 27 October 2014 onwards except for 73% of the annual management 
charge paid by them in 2015 in order to reflect their usage that year i.e. the Half-Term 
Holiday (the Net Ongoing Charges).
(6) Simple interest* at 8% per annum should be added to the Net Ongoing Charges from 
the date each charge was paid until the date Shawbrook settles this complaint. 
(7) Shawbrook should indemnify Mr C against 73% of any other liabilities accruing from 
27 October 2014 onwards as a result of his and Mrs Cs ownership of Fractional 
Rights.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If thats the case, the business 
must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman