DRN-1354827
 
The complaint
Mr V complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) have applied an unfair 
exchange rate to his currency transfer. 
What happened
Mr V transferred $66,814 from his Australian bank account on 12 June 2019 to his UK 
account with Natwest. He received £35,719.75, which was £750 less than he was expecting 
based on the exchange rate he had seen online that day.
Mr V complained to Natwest as he did not expect to receive such a low rate, and said that 
they should pay him a further £750. He said they did not warn him of the difference between 
their rate and the actual rate, and that it is not fair that they can charge hidden fees. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. She was satisfied that Natwest had acted 
within their account terms and conditions and that Mr V could have checked the rate with 
Natwest first before going ahead with the transfer. Mr V disagreed, so the matter has been 
escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions of Mr Vs account set out:
Our exchange rates are based on our prevailing rate at the date and time that a 
foreign currency payment is processed. We publish reference exchange rates on 
natwest.com (search for Exchange Rates). These are indicative rates only and are 
published for reference purposes. We may change our exchange rates immediately 
and without notice where such changes reflect a change in the reference exchange 
rate or where the change is more favourable to you.
I appreciate that Mr V may have found a more favourable rate online. But Natwest are 
entitled to set their own rate based on whatever they determine are the prevailing factors 
and market conditions of the day. And Im satisfied that this is set out in their terms and 
conditions. The terms further state:
Before you make a foreign currency payment, you can ask us for the exchange rate 
that will be applied to the payment, and well provide that rate if we can. 
So Mr V could have checked the exchange rate directly with Natwest before he went ahead 
with the transfer, but it appears that he failed to do so. And Im afraid he cannot now ask 
Natwest to give him more money just because he is not happy with the rate he received. Mr V says he was not warned of the difference between the actual rate and the rate he 
received with Natwest. 
It isnt clear what Mr V is referring to when he says the actual rate, but I assume it is the 
rate he saw quoted on the internet that day. However, such quotes are often only indicative 
and are always subject to fluctuation throughout the day. There is no single exchange rate 
for a currency that all banks must track or replicate. So Natwest is entitled to set its own 
fluctuating exchange rate for each currency based on various market considerations. So I do 
not consider that they have acted unfairly by applying their own rate rather than the 
indicative rate Mr V saw online. And Im satisfied he had the opportunity to establish what 
this rate was before he went ahead with the transfer, and that he had he could have 
shopped around for a better rate if he did not consider Natwests rate to be competitive.
Mr V says it is unfair that Natwest can apply hidden charges. But Ive seen no evidence that 
hidden charges have been applied. It is simply a lower rate of exchange than he was 
expecting, which Natwest were entitled to set. 
It follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman