DRN-2441990
The complaint
 Mrs and Mr T complain, through a claims management company (CMC), that Bank of 
Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) gave them unsuitable investment advice.
What happened
 In 1998 Mrs and Mr T were advised to each invest £6,000 in a Personal Equity Plan (PEP) 
both of which are still active, and as of November 2020 were each worth just over £12,000.
Mrs and Mr T complained after speaking to the CMC. In its response to the complaint Halifax 
said that the advice that Mr and Mrs T each invest £6,000 in a medium risk PEP was 
suitable for them based on their investment experience and the fact they had a significant 
amount left on deposit after the investment. It said the level of risk was suitable based on 
their experience.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said he couldnt fairly say that the PEPs were unsuitable for Mrs and Mr T based on their 
circumstances at the time of advice.
The CMC didnt agree. It said that Mrs and Mr T were nearly 70 and had retired many years 
previously and that a responsible adviser shouldnt have recommended increasing their risk 
at this point in their lives. 
It said they had a very small disposable income of around £30 each month so were very 
dependent on the integrity of their current savings and investments and couldnt afford to 
take any significant risks with their money. 
The CMC said that despite this they were sold a fund with over 80% in equities and overlaps 
with the investments within the fund. It said the fact they have managed to remain invested 
for 22 years doesnt change the fact that this was unlikely at the time of investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having considered the evidence and what the CMC has said in response to the 
investigators opinion I am not persuaded that the advice in 1998 was unsuitable for Mrs and 
Mr T.
I acknowledge that at the time they were both retired, with Mrs T about to turn 70 and Mr T 
turning 70 the following year. I accept that generally people become more risk averse as 
they age, so tend to invest in less risky investments than those they invested in when they 
were younger. 
But this is a generalisation and it doesnt mean that people of Mrs and Mr Ts ages cant be 
medium risk investors. They are shown as having a reasonable amount in overall assets - 
just short of £129,000 not counting the value of the main residence and contents. This 
included investments in Unit Trusts, PEPs and a Unit Linked Investment Bond. These were 
investments they had been recommended previously in 1993. So, they had some experience 
of different risk-based investments at the time of advice in 1998. 
The CMC has referred to the three meetings Halifax said the adviser had with Mrs and Mr T 
and says that this shows how dependent they were on the adviser. The fact find shows only 
two main interview dates. But in any event, it is difficult to read very much into the number of 
times they met with the adviser. This isnt evidence that a medium risk investment was 
unsuitable. 
Halifax has provided two further fact finds, one from before the 1998 investment, dated in 
1993, and one from afterwards dated 2003.  There is nothing in those fact finds that provides 
any evidence that the advice in 1998 was unsuitable. 
I note that Mrs and Mr Ts risk appetite is identified as cautious/medium in 2003, but this is 
five years after the 1998 investment and doesnt provide evidence this was their risk profile 
at the time. It is also worth pointing out that even the 2003 fact find doesnt support the 
CMCs argument that Mr and Mrs T were cautious risk investors in 1998.
I note what the CMC has said about the proportion of the fund in equities, but PEPs were 
primarily equity-based investments. Halifax has confirmed the investments were medium risk 
PEPs and I have seen no persuasive evidence this is wrong.
The CMC has said that Mrs and Mr T had only a small disposable income of £30. Its not 
clear how it has arrived at this figure as the 1998 fact find shows a net disposable income of 
£97 each month  and this is after deduction of £50 for contingencies over and above 
normal outgoings and a figure of £47 after deducting a further £50 for non-essential 
spending.
I think it is reasonably clear that Mrs and Mr T were comfortable with their level of income, 
given they only wanted to invest for capital growth both in 1998 and in 2003 and didnt want 
additional income. 
I note the CMC has said the fact that Mrs and Mr T have kept the PEPs for 22 years doesnt 
mean this was unlikely at the time of investment. However, I have seen no persuasive 
evidence they were unlikely to be able to keep the PEPS over the medium to long term 
based on their circumstances in 1998  which included still having around £74,000 in deposit 
accounts after the investment. 
So, contrary to what the CMC has suggested I am satisfied they were well placed to invest 
£12,000 in the PEPs.
My final decision
 I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Philip GibbonsOmbudsman