DRN-3118281
The complaint
Mr T complains about poor advice and administration from St. James's Place Wealth
Management Plc (SJP) in connection with his pension. In particular, Mr T has expressed 
concern over what he considers to have been premature and unnecessary withdrawals from 
his pension fund.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 September 2021, in which I set out 
my reasons for upholding it. 
I noted that a previous ombudsman had issued a provisional decision on 7 July 2020, in 
which she set out the background to the complaint and her findings. In summary, she 
considered that SJP had implemented withdrawals from Mr Ts pension funds too early  he 
didnt need the cash at that time  and as such she concluded that SJP should undertake 
further cashflow modelling to determine the point at which it would have been appropriate to 
withdraw the funds in question.
If this meant that Mr T would have been better off due to the pension funds remaining 
invested for longer, the ombudsman was of the view that Mr T should be compensated for 
this.
In summary, I agreed with previous views expressed that the complaint should be upheld, on 
the basis that tax free cash and income payments shouldnt have been made to Mr T when 
they were. But I also took into account additional submissions made by both parties.
The previous ombudsmans provisional decision is set out below, and begins with the 
background to the complaint:
Mr T met with an SJP adviser in 2018 to discuss his retirement planning. He was advised 
to transfer two personal pensions and part of a third personal pension to a fund managed 
by SJP.
Mr T wanted to drawdown from the fund to provide an income during retirement. In 
February 2019 SJP told him a tax-free cash payment of £27,395 would be paid to his bank 
account, and he would receive monthly payments of £987.50.
Mr T said he wasnt expecting the lump sum payment, and he asked for the monthly 
payments to be stopped because they would increase the amount of cash he was holding. 
SJP continued to make the monthly payments and they werent stopped until July 2019.
Mr T says he hadnt wanted to take the tax-free cash at the same time as the income 
drawdown. He says he had sufficient cash available elsewhere to meet his needs. He 
considers SJPs actions mean the tax-free cash was withdrawn unnecessarily, and have 
stopped him from making tax efficient withdrawals in the future. He also considers hes 
missed out on possible investment growth on the cash.
SJP considered there may have been a misunderstanding about the tax-free cash paid to 
Mr T, and the cash that would be retained on the money market account within his pension 
fund.
It looked at how Mr Ts fund wouldve performed if the whole amount had remained 
invested and no tax-free cash paid or income payments made. SJP found there was a loss 
to Mr T on this basis, which it rounded up to l. It also offered to pay £500
for the trouble and upset caused.
SJP also compared the performance of Mr Ts pension fund against the performance of 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index over the same period. On this 
basis Mr Ts pension had performed better than the index.
After SJPs offer was made another income payment was made to Mr T in error. SJP 
refunded the amount to Mr Ts pension but it didnt reclaim it from Mr T. It also adjusted 
the loss calculation to allow for interest, and increased the offer for trouble and upset to 
£750. This meant SJPs total compensation offer was £2,800.
Mr T wasnt happy with SJPs offer and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator considered SJPs offer was fair. She noted that SJPs recommendation 
report set out details of the tax-free cash, although she accepted the report couldve been 
clearer on how the money would be paid. The investigator was satisfied that SJPs 
compensation offer put Mr T into the position he wouldve been in if the money had 
remained invested and the tax-free cash and income payments hadnt been paid.
The investigator understood why Mr T might have lost faith in SJP. But she didnt 
consider the business was required to refund any fees or waive its exit charges if Mr T 
wanted to move elsewhere.
Mr T accepted that SJPs compensation offered covered the investment losses hed 
suffered as a result of the tax-free cash and income payments being made.
But he didnt agree that his advisers investment strategy was suitable. Mr Ts 
understanding was that tax-free payments from the pension would be used strategically to 
minimise tax in future years. He maintained that he hadnt wanted to take the lump sum 
because he had sufficient cash assets elsewhere. Mr T said he didnt think the 
compensation offer covered the loss of future investment growth.
Mr T also considered it was unfair that SJP will not waive its exit penalties if he wants 
to move elsewhere. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr T accepts SJPs compensation offer for investment loss on the 
payments that were made. But he remains unhappy with the initial advice from his 
adviser, and thinks its unfair that the fee for that advice hasnt been refunded. Mr T would 
like to reserve the right to claim that fee from the adviser as a separate entity to SJP.
But Im satisfied that the adviser was an appointed representative of SJP. So I dont 
consider its reasonable to treat the initial advice as the subject matter of a separate complaint. As such, I will consider the advice as part of the overall complaint against SJP 
and make my findings accordingly.
Mr T has said throughout his complaint that he didnt want to take the tax-free lump sum 
because he had significant cash assets elsewhere. He says he wanted to keep as much 
money as possible invested in the pension fund to maximise its growth potential. Ive 
noted everything Mr T has said.
Mr T has told me the adviser recommended he should keep two years worth of income 
payments in cash, to protect against significant moves in the market. Mr T said he 
thought cash worth one years worth of income payments would be enough, because of 
his other cash holdings elsewhere.
Following meetings with Mr T where his retirement plans were discussed, SJP produced 
a recommendation report in October 2018 that said:
At the point of transfer we will crystallise £109,582 12 of your pension fund which 
will provide tax free cash of £27,395 53 which will be immediately withdrawn.
The tax free cash of £27,395 53 will provide £7,695 to cover the 3 month income shortfall 
from Jan 2019 to April 2019 until the start of the 2019/2020 tax year. At this point you will 
then draw £11,850pa as pension income from the crystallised funds (this based on the 
personal income tax allowance of the 2018/19 so is expected to have an inflationary 
increase applied which can be altered accordingly). The remaining £19,700.53 shortfall 
for 2019/2020 will also be funded through the initial tax free cash released.
So on balance I think SJP made it clear that the tax-free cash would be withdrawn from 
the pension fund immediately  even if Mr T didnt appreciate this would be the case.
But following production of the report Mr T raised a number of questions with his SJP 
adviser before deciding how to proceed. In one of his emails to the adviser he said:
I agree and understand the process of keeping a money part to the plan to allow better 
draw down timing i.e. use the money part to fund when needed instead of drawing from the 
plans. But feel that, if my understanding is correct, that this represents £60-70k that would 
not be invested and feel this is higher than I would want. My basis on this is that I would 
use my current £30-40k cash holdings and/or £60-70k of shareholdings which I am 
managing as a reserve in times when it would not be a good plan to take from the plans. 
This would be to keep more funds invested.
In response, SJP said:
There would obviously be a drag on performance for any assets within the pension not 
fully invested so I completely understand your rationale for this. 24 months is what I would 
use as a conservative measure so perhaps halving this to 12 months initially based on your 
assets. I would still be hesitant to recommend you to fully invest all assets for the reasons 
we discussed if you were to draw income from a falling market.
Mr T then said:
As per the previous email I would only want to keep approx. £25-30k outside of 
the investments to maximise the growth and hopefully build on that from 
increases.Having considered the correspondence between Mr T and SJP, and despite the content 
of the recommendation report, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr T to be under the 
impression any cash would be held on a cash account within the pension fund, rather 
than paid to him as a lump sum.
But Ive thought about what might have happened if the money had been retained in Mr 
Ts pension fund as he says he was expecting.
Mr T had access to around £43,000 in other cash assets. His annual target income 
during the early years of his retirement was around £30,000. On that basis his available 
cash wouldve lasted just under eighteen months.
Mr T accepted that one years worth of income should be retained as cash, so on this 
basis an amount similar to the tax-free lump sum amount wouldve been held on a money 
market account with SJP. When annual management charges are taken into account, I 
think its unlikely that a significant return couldve been earned on the money. So Im not 
persuaded that Mr T has lost out on future investment returns as he suggests.
The withdrawal of the tax free cash has moved cash from a tax efficient pension wrapper 
to an environment in which tax might be incurred, dependent of course upon what type of 
investment Mr T chose. SJP has already undertaken a comparison to determine whether 
Mr T had lost out due to the money no longer being invested in the particular pension fund 
being used to hold cash.
And although more cash than was necessary was taken from the pension, the bulk of it was 
through tax free cash. So there are no tax implications from the withdrawal, as such. The 
benefit of withdrawing on a tax free basis has simply been brought forward, rather than 
spread of several years. If Mr T doesnt need to access that much cash for income 
purposes, he can invest it for the future.
But there is also the matter of any future loss which might also be incurred through having 
an excess of cash outside the pension wrapper. It seems likely that, in order to protect the 
value of funds which would shortly be called upon, there would be regular movements of 
Mr Ts pension funds into the same cash or money market account which was being used 
in the pension.
I therefore think that, to establish whether Mr T will suffer a future investment loss due to 
the unnecessary removal of funds from his pension, SJP should undertake revised cash 
modelling (or a cash flow analysis) to determine the likely movement of Mr Ts pension 
funds to a cash or money market fund, and then paid from the pension to Mr T as the 
income he required. This should take into account the cash funds Mr T already had and 
which he says could have been used before lump sums were withdrawn from the pension.
SJP should have details of the cash Mr T held and could access as income, as part of 
its initial fact finding exercise. But if it doesnt, then Mr T will need to furnish it with the 
information.
SJP should compare the returns Mr T would have achieved from his pension and non- 
pension cash holdings (Mr T will be able to confirm how these were invested) and then 
determine whether Mr T will have suffered a loss. For the period of comparison (so until 
the point at which Mr T would have withdrawn the same amount he has in fact already 
withdrawn), I would recommend that SJP simply use notional future investment returns 
equivalent to those Mr T is currently obtaining in the pension and non-pension funds.I dont think the difference, which effectively allows for the tax efficiency on returns of the 
pension wrapper, will be significant, but it is nevertheless an issue which justifiably 
concerns Mr T, and so needs to be resolved.
I can understand why Mr T may have lost confidence in SJP, but it has taken steps to 
resolve the mistakes made and offered to introduce Mr T to a new partner. Once it has 
established whether Mr T will have incurred a future loss due to the movement of cash out 
of the pension wrapper, I think that he will have been put as closely as possible in the 
position he would otherwise have been. So I dont currently consider it would be 
reasonable to ask SJP to waive exit charges if Mr T wants to move his pension investments 
elsewhere, or to refund its adviser fee.
In response to the previous ombudsmans provisional decision, the business said the 
following in summary:
It noted that, in the two years since Mr T had complained, he hadnt made any 
further withdrawals from his pension funds.
It queried the objective of the ombudsmans proposal, as any movement of funds 
into the money market fund would almost certainly have been subject to erosion 
through a combination of low interest rates and charges. And so it was likely that 
any investment made by Mr T of the withdrawn funds outside of the pension 
wrapper would have outstripped the returns in the money market fund.
Mr T said the following in response to the previous ombudsmans provisional decision:
A lack of confidence in his pension arrangements had led to deciding to continue 
working for a further two years.
There had been confusion over the transfer of his Barclays pension  the SJP 
representative hadnt said that the forms he was signing would only result in a 
partial transfer to SJP, which didnt include the Barclays pension.
He was also dissatisfied with SJPs overall service, especially with regard to the 
matter of the unnecessary withdrawal of the tax fee cash. This made him question 
the value for money hed received in respect of fees paid.
But he nevertheless reluctantly accepted the ombudsmans proposed settlement, 
and thanked both her and the investigator for their time spent on the matter.
The previous ombudsman noted the comments, and she asked the investigator to contact 
Mr T to say the following:
The information supplied by SJP had indicated that any funds moved to the money 
market fund, as anticipated at the time of the advice by Mr T in advance of future 
withdrawal for income purposes, would have been eroded by charges.
As such, the ombudsman didnt now consider there to be a need for further cash 
modelling, as had been her prior conclusion. 
The ombudsman intended to now direct SJP to simply pay the compensation it had 
already offered.
However, in response Mr T questioned the need to move the pension funds into the money 
market fund. He said that his view was that the funds should have remained invested as 
they were  and had they remained invested, they would have achieved growth of almost 
11%, instead of the 1% which hed achieved on reinvested funds outside of the pension 
wrapper.The previous ombudsman considered these further comments and revised her proposal to 
SJP, copying in Mr T, as follows:
Mr T had re-confirmed that he didnt need the cash as he had sufficient cash assets 
elsewhere to meet his income needs. And as Mr T had made no further 
withdrawals, she accepted this.
As shed said in the provisional decision, her view was that Mr Ts target income 
and available cash mean that he had enough to live on for about 18 months.
She noted that the suitability report had recommended that two years income be 
held in the money market fund, but she considered this to be an overly long period 
in which Mr Ts funds effectively wouldnt be invested  and would be subject to 
erosion through charges. 
She thought it would have been reasonable for the cash to have remained invested 
until six months before Mr T was likely to need it. On that basis, it would have 
remained invested for 12 months longer than it was.
And so, rather than completing a new cash modelling exercise as had previously 
been proposed, the ombudsman said the fund should be reconstructed as if the 
cash had remained invested for a further 12 months.
Mr T accepted this. SJP also accepted the previous ombudsmans revised proposal, but 
asked whether it meant that it should recalculate loss as at 12 months from its previous 
calculation  so up to June 2020.
It also said that, as it would be unable to pay into Mr Ts pension fund, it would need to pay 
any compensation directly to Mr T. It enquired as to whether the usual notional deduction 
this service would apply to such a payment, to account for the rate of income tax the 
recipient would likely pay in retirement, should be applicable here.
My provisional findings
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agreed with the previous ombudsmans findings on the matter. I was also 
of  the view, and for the same reasons, that Mr T didnt need the tax free cash when it was 
paid to him in February 2019  and then further income payments later in the same year.
I also agreed with the proposed remedy here. As with the previous ombudsman, I thought Mr 
T wouldnt have needed to move his cash into the money market fund until six months 
before he was deemed likely to need the cash. Whilst movement to money market funds, or 
cash equivalent, can be useful to protect the value of funds intended for withdrawal from any 
fluctuations in market movements, I thought the proposed period of six months in advance 
was probably about right. 
SJPs original calculation also included the income payments which had been made in error 
in April and May 2019. My understanding was that a further incorrect income payment in July 
2019 was credited back to his pension fund, with no repayment of it from Mr T requested.
But I thought the April and May 2019 payments should also be included in the calculation, as 
had been the case in SJPs original calculation.
SJP had asked whether it should calculate loss 12 months from its original calculation in 
June 2019. But I said that the previous ombudsman found that the tax free cash should have 
remained invested for a further 12 months than it was  on the basis that Mr T would need to access it 18 months hence  and I agreed. So I said that the calculation should be 
undertaken as at the 12 month point from the original disinvestment in February 2019  so 
February 2020, not June 2020. The same notional disinvestment date should be used for the 
income payments.
I noted that Mr T may not have actually withdrawn further funds from his pension after the 
erroneous payments were made, and may be of the view that redress should be calculated 
as if no withdrawals have been made. But I said that withdrawals to fulfil Mr Ts future 
income needs were part of the original agreed strategy. Mr T had said that hes continued 
working (which may account for no further withdrawals needing to be made) due to a lack of 
confidence in his pension arrangements. But my view was that, although Mr T may have 
been concerned about the value of his residual pension, especially due to market 
fluctuations as a result of the pandemic, to which he had also alluded in his communication 
with the investigator, I didnt think the decision to continue working could reasonably be 
attributed to SJPs error in paying the tax free cash and other income too early. 
And so I said that SJP should calculate, as at 6 February 2020 (the date in the previous year 
at which I understood the disinvestment of the tax free cash was originally made), the 
notional value of the tax free cash and income payments which were withdrawn in error the 
year before. If this value was higher in February 2020, then Mr T would have suffered a loss. 
I also said that actual performance of the money market fund should be applied to any 
resulting loss from 6 February 2020 to 6 August 2020. The resulting sum would be the 
overall loss, if any, to Mr T of having his funds moved into the money market fund too early.
I said that, if there was a loss, the amount should be paid to Mr T directly. No notional 
deduction in respect of the income tax which Mr T would have paid on the compensation 
amount should be applied to the tax free cash portion of the redress due, but I said it may be 
applied to the compensation in respect of the income payments. This was presumed to be 
20%.
Interest at the rate of 8% simple pa from 6 August 2020, to the date of settlement, should 
also then be applied to any resulting compensation amount.
I further commented that Mr T had without doubt been considerably inconvenienced by 
whats happened here, and I could see that it had also caused him no small amount of 
stress, at a time when he was also concerned about wider issues affecting his retirement 
plans. 
And so I thought the offer made by SJP of a further £750 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the matter should also stand.
Responses to the provisional decision
SJP replied to say that it agreed with the provisional decision.
Mr T also said he agreed with the proposals, but queried the notional tax deduction which I 
had indicated should be applied to any compensation amount. He said that he was paying 
no tax on withdrawals which he had just begun and that his income would be below the tax 
threshold this year.
On that basis, I asked the investigator to confirm to SJP that I intended to remove that 
aspect of the award. SJP said that, so long as I was satisfied that Mr Ts overall income 
position did not exceed the personal allowance, it was happy to accept the proposed 
revision.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to the outcome of my provisional decision, my conclusions 
reman same.
Putting things right
The direction for how any loss should be calculated remains the same as above, but on the 
basis of Mr Ts confirmation that his income wont exceed the personal allowance threshold, 
no notional deduction should be removed from any redress payment made directly to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct St. Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc to undertake the above calculation, and if redress is due, make payment to 
Mr T accordingly. It should also pay to Mr T £750 in respect of the trouble and upset the 
matter has caused him
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman