DRN-3775130
The complaint
Mr W complains about the sale of a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contributions plan 
(FSAVC) by Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) in 1998.
He is represented by a claims management company (CMC). It says the plan was unsuitable 
for Mr W and he has lost out financially as a result. 
The CMC says that the adviser didnt fully discuss the differences in charges between the 
FSAVC and an in-house Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVC) plan. The CMC said there 
was no reason why Mr W wouldve chosen to incur the higher charges posed by the FSAVC. 
The CMC also says there was no discussion about, what it describes as, the greater tax 
efficiency of the in-house AVC.
What happened
Mr W met with an adviser in 1998. He was recommended a FSAVC plan with a net monthly 
contribution of £30. He took out the plan and made the monthly payments and he was still 
making them at the time of the complaint.
In 2020 a CMC representing Mr W complained to Scottish Widows about the 
recommendation it made to Mr W to take out a FSAVC plan. 
Scottish Widows didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that its adviser had met with Mr W 
and suggested he explore his in-house scheme. It said the adviser had provided Mr W with a 
leaflet setting out the generic differences between the in-house options and the FSAVC plan. 
Scottish Widows said that once Mr W had had an opportunity to consider both pension 
options, he had expressed a preference for the FSAVC because of the mobility it offered.  It 
said that Mr W was provided with an illustration together with the generic differences leaflet 
before taking out the FSAVC plan, enabling him to make an informed choice. 
Scottish Widows said the adviser had considered Mr Ws attitude to risk and assessed it as 
low to medium.  It said Mr W had been recommended the maximum contribution, but he had 
chosen a smaller contribution to keep within his budget. 
Scottish Widows said it was satisfied that Mr W had been provided with all the necessary 
information to make an informed choice and that Mr W had started his plan to provide 
additional income at retirement. 
The CMC disagreed and referred Mr Ws complaint to our service. It said at the time, Mr W 
was employed and intending to stay in the same profession. The CMC said he wanted to 
increase his pension provision as much as possible.  
The CMC said the recommendation to take out a FSAVC was unsuitable for Mr W and there 
was no evidence that the adviser had followed the applicable rules at the time. It also said 
that there had been no explanation as to why Mr W wouldve chosen to incur higher charges 
by taking out the FSAVC. The CMC said it was implausible that he would have done so. 
The CMC said it was clear that Mr W had lost out financially as a result. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said Mr W 
met with a tied adviser for Scottish Widows in April 1998. The investigator said the role of 
tied advisers was to highlight the generic differences between AVCs and FSAVCs and 
explain the difference in charges between those options. 
The investigator noted that the adviser had produced a suitability report, provided a leaflet 
outlining the generic differences and advised Mr W to investigate his in-house scheme. She 
referred to the illustration which set out the impact of the charges on the return and the terms 
and conditions which explained how the charges worked. 
The investigator was satisfied that the leaflet provided explained that the charges for an in-
house scheme were usually lower than the FSAVC. 
The investigator noted that Mr W had a job that was considered to be secure and he wanted 
to enhance his retirement provision. She also noted that the suitability letter indicated that 
the main factor for choosing the FSAVC was its mobility. 
The CMC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and said:
The tied adviser should have compared the merits of the FSAVC with the probably 
better value for money in-house AVC. 
There were several things the adviser was obliged to do before selling the FSAVC 
but ultimately the most important was making sure the consumer was aware of the 
difference in charges between the two products.
It noted that we believed it was simply sufficient to provide a generic leaflet and an 
illustration showing the effect of charges on the FSAVC. But the CMC said it didnt 
believe there was anything within the file that actually showed the 'difference' in 
charges and what effect that would have on the consumers retirement planning.
There could be no justification for a consumer choosing the FSAVC over the            
in-house AVC when the CMC said it was, and is well known, that the in-house option 
gave better value for money. The CMC said it was simply implausible to think that 
anyone with any understanding or knowledge of the two products would choose the 
more expensive option.
It didnt believe that the adviser had made Mr W sufficiently aware of the alternatives 
in a way that he would have fully understood. Therefore, it said Mr W was not given 
enough information to make an informed choice. 
It strongly believed that Mr W had been disadvantaged by the poor advice he had 
received.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision which I concluded that the complaint should be upheld and 
redress should be calculated on the basis of a comparison with the lower costs that would 
have been incurred, if Mr W had taken out an AVC plan, and that it should be carried out in 
accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance. 
The following is an extract from my provisional decision, and forms part of this final decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W met with an adviser on 27 April 1998 and a fact find was completed recording his 
circumstances and objectives.  He was in his late twenties and employed as a teacher. He 
was already a member of an occupational pension scheme. It was recorded that he wished 
to enhance his retirement benefits by contributing to a plan.
Mr W was earning around £18,500 per year and paying about 6% of his income in pension 
contributions. His employer was also contributing to his occupational pension and Mr W was 
intending to retire at 60. Mr W had recently taken out a mortgage and was making monthly repayments. 
The fact find recorded that Mr W had a pension need and that he had been advised to 
consider details of his in-house scheme before comparing those with the FSAVC benefits.
A recommendations report was issued by the adviser and signed by Mr W, and the adviser, 
on 28 April 1998.
In that report it was recorded that Mr W had been recommended a FSAVC plan and that the 
recommendation had been made as an alternative to the in-house AVC. 
It was also recorded that: 
The client has been advised to investigate the company arrangements, has been given an 
AVC comparison leaflet and will advise of the decision. The client reviewed the In-House 
arrangements. 
Mr WXXX(redacted) is able to commit £30 per month to satisfy the above need. My 
recommendation is therefore that Mr WXXX has decided to make net contributions of this 
amount into his new FSAVC plan on an increasing basis ( 5% per annum).
The client was made aware of the generic benefits of both In-House and Black Horse Free 
Standing AVCs. The client preferred to purchase benefits using the Free-Standing Plan 
because of the mobility it allows him and the potential for enhanced benefits above his      
IN- HOUSE scheme.
I note the adviser who recommended the plan was a tied adviser so he couldnt recommend 
an in-house AVC or added years. The adviser could only recommend the pension products 
provided by the firm he worked for.
So, I think it is important to look at what was required from a tied adviser at that time. 
Requirements of a tied adviser
The tied adviser couldnt recommend products from other providers but was required to:
1. Draw Mr W's attention to the in-house alternative
2. Discuss the generic differences between the two routes
3. Direct Mr W to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-house option.
Mr Ws representative says the adviser didnt do this and if the adviser had explained the 
differences, including the difference in charges between the options and the impact of those 
charges, Mr W would have chosen the in-house AVC as it wouldve had lower charges.
I consider the recommendations letter represents a summary of what was discussed 
between Mr W and the adviser and it makes several references to the in-house options. So, I 
am satisfied on balance that the adviser drew Mr Ws attention to in-house alternatives.
I am also satisfied that the adviser directed Mr W to his employer for more information, as it 
is recorded that he was advised to investigate his company arrangements and that Mr W 
would advise of the decision. And then it is subsequently recorded, that Mr W had reviewed 
the in-house arrangements. So, I think the tied adviser would have met two of the 
requirements. 
I also note it is recorded that Mr W was made aware of the generic benefits of both options 
and the recommendations report refers to the reasons why he preferred the FSAVC plan, 
namely the mobility and the potential enhanced benefits. However, I dont think that, of itself, 
demonstrates that the generic differences between the different options were discussed, with 
Mr W being made aware, of the advantages of the in-house AVC plan, in particular the 
difference in costs. And I have to consider whether sufficient information was provided by the 
adviser to explain the key differences between the options, in particular the differences in 
costs.Were the generic differences between the two routes discussed?
Scottish Widows has provided a copy of a AVC comparison leaflet it says was provided to 
Mr W at the time and it is recorded in the summary and recommendations report that Mr W 
was provided with a AVC comparison leaflet. 
Mr Ws representative says the differences between the in-house and free-standing option 
werent explained to him at the time and in particular the difference in costs wasnt 
explained. 
I am satisfied from the contents of the document and the way that it was laid out that it was 
designed to be used by the adviser to assist in explaining the generic differences between 
the FSAVC and the in-house options. 
Comparison of options leaflet
I can see at the top of the first page of the comparison document it notes that
 Most employers bear part or perhaps all of the expenses of the AVC 
and it makes it clear that the charges of in-house AVCs are usually lower than for Free 
Standing AVCs and that is the main reason for some customers choosing the in-house 
option. 
The document also explains what AVCs and added years are, in the glossary of terms on 
the first page of the leaflet. 
It also refers to the tax treatment of the different plans and explains that with the in-house 
option, the plan holder receives tax relief immediately up to their highest marginal rate. 
Whereas with the FSAVC, the immediate relief rate only applied up to basic rate, and higher 
rate taxpayers would have to receive relief by assessment or through their tax code. 
In addition, I dont think the document over-stated the portability benefit of the FSAVC 
because on the in-house side, it also explained that if the plan holder changed employer, 
they may be able to start a new in-house AVC with their new employer.  
So, I consider that the comparison document did provide information about the differences 
between the options and I also think it made express reference to several advantages of the 
in-house AVC option, including the charges usually being lower and referred to the 
corresponding negative aspects of the FSAVC. I therefore consider it set out the differences 
in a balanced way and I also note it gave a broad explanation as to how in-house AVCs and 
added years worked.
Were the contents of the comparison document explained to Mr W? 
I note the recommendations report was a fairly brief document with the note of Mr W being 
provided with the AVC comparison leaflet appearing on page two, and the signed declaration 
on page four of the report.
The declaration stated:
I understand that the advice has been given to me based on the information provided, and 
that I am under no obligation to act upon any recommendation that may be made.
And 
I confirm that a key features document and schedule was supplied/received in respect of 
each of the above accepted products prior to completing the corresponding application form.
There is no specific reference in that declaration to Mr W being provided with the 
comparison document and its contents being explained to him. So, Mr W didnt confirm 
there, or elsewhere in the point of sale documentation, that he had received that document 
and its contents had been explained to him.  I also note there was no specific reference in the recommendations document, or in the fact 
find to the difference in costs between the in-house AVC and the FSAVC plan. I think this 
was an important factor and if there had been some meaningful discussion, where the 
adviser had highlighted the likelihood of lower costs with the in-house AVC , I wouldve 
expected some specific reference in the documentation.
So, overall, Im not satisfied on balance that the available evidence supports the position that 
the generic differences were properly discussed so that Mr W was made aware of important 
differences between the FSAVC and the in-house options - in particular, the difference in 
costs. 
What would Mr W have otherwise done if the generic differences had been discussed?
I have to consider what would have happened here if the generic differences between the 
FSAVC policy and in-house options had been properly explained to Mr W. Would Mr W still 
have elected to take out a FSAVC policy, or would he have chosen an AVC plan which 
generally had lower charges than the FSAVC policy and the potential to build up a retirement 
fund? Alternatively, would he have elected the added years option which tended to be more 
expensive, but gave a more certain level of benefit?
As I have said, the tied adviser couldnt recommend an in-house option, but Mr W could 
have pursued this himself with his scheme.
I think that budget considerations were important as Mr W didnt take out the full amount 
available as an FSAVC contribution (which was £140 gross) but chose to limit his 
contribution to £30 with a regular increase of 5%. So, I think keeping contribution costs low 
was an objective for Mr W. And higher costs wouldve had a greater impact on the return he 
would receive from those contributions. 
Mr W was relatively young at the time of the advice so portability may well have been an 
attractive feature. However, Mr W was employed in a profession where people do remain for 
their whole career and indeed, as Mr W has explained, he is still in that profession, so Im 
not persuaded that portability was a deciding factor for him. 
I think that the potential returns shown on the FSAVC illustration and the flexibility of 
retirement age would have been attractive but ultimately, I think the difference in costs is 
likely to have meant he would have preferred the in-house AVC option. 
Added years
Although this aspect hasnt been specifically raised by Mr Ws representative, Ive 
nevertheless considered the option of buying added years within the in-house arrangements. 
As with the in house AVC, I think its more likely than not that, when directed to investigate 
the in-house options, this is something of which Mr W would have been aware. 
I also think its more likely than not that if Mr W had investigated the added years option with 
his scheme, it would have appeared expensive in comparison with the FSAVC, in relation to 
the returns that might be achieved.
That is because his Occupational Pension Scheme would have offered the buying of added 
years at a fixed cost. When deciding the cost, it would have wanted to make sure the 
scheme could cope with how many people wanted to buy added years. So, it would have 
used conservative assumptions when working out the cost. I think it is likely therefore that it 
would have appeared expensive. 
When comparing the cost of added years against the projected returns on the FSAVC at that 
time, for example, it meant that with the FSAVC a relatively low contribution could potentially 
achieve a higher return. And as I have said, I consider budgetary considerations were a 
significant factor for Mr W.   
I also take into account that the purchase of added years was based on the assumption that 
the contributions would be paid until retirement age, with increases linked to salary, and that generally there was less flexibility to stop and restart. So, I consider these aspects may well 
have been less attractive to Mr W, who was relatively young at the time of the advice.
I also consider added years would have been more of a fixed commitment for Mr W with 
increasing contributions linked to his salary for a fixed term. Whereas with an AVC plan      
Mr W would have been able to make increases over time  when he felt ready to do so. So, I 
think that was a potential benefit for Mr W. Overall, Im not persuaded on balance that he 
would have taken out added years.
Attitude to risk 
Mr Ws attitude to risk was recorded as low to medium which appears to be in line with his 
circumstances and objectives at the time. This plan was intended to be held until retirement 
and he was in his late twenties. I consider he was able to take some risk over the long term 
with a relatively small monthly contribution. And, I consider on balance that he wished to do 
so, in order to try to achieve the sort of level of return shown on the illustration. 
I also take into account that this was a top-up plan rather than Mr W s main pension. He 
already had an occupational pension scheme which represented the majority of his 
contributions and where any investment risk was borne by the scheme. So, I think its likely 
that Mr W was willing to take more risk with this plan in the hope of achieving something like 
the level of return set out in the FSAVC illustration.
On that basis I consider Mr W was willing to take this level of risk  and notably a risk which 
would also have been present within an in house AVC arrangement - over the long term to 
try to achieve a reasonable return on his contributions and top up his pension. 
So, I dont think the risk posed by the plan made it unsuitable for Mr W. However, as I have 
explained, I think if the difference in costs had been explained to Mr W, it is more likely than 
not that he would have opted for an in-house AVC instead.
Summary
Accordingly, I propose to uphold the complaint and I think compensation should be 
calculated on the basis of a comparison with the lower costs that would have been incurred if 
Mr W had taken out an AVC plan. I have set out the details later on in this provisional 
decision. 
Putting things right
Scottish Widows should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data 
for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Scottish Widows should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 
2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Both parties acknowledged and accepted my provisional decision and made no further 
representations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and noting that both parties have accepted my provisional findings, my 
decision remains the same as set out in my provisional decision, an extract of which is 
reproduced above and forms part of this decision.
Putting things right
Scottish Widows should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data 
for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Scottish Widows should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 
2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Scottish Widows Limited and it 
should pay compensation calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman