DRN-4051518
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) gave her unsuitable 
advice to invest in a bond in 2007. 
Mrs C has complained through a CMC, but for ease I referred to all actions and comments 
as being those of Mrs C. 
What happened
Following the tragic loss of her husband in the summer of 2006, Mrs C met with a NatWest 
advisor in December 2006, with the intention to invest some of the proceeds of her late 
husbands life insurance policy. 
Mrs C met with the advisor again in February 2007 and was advised to invest £75,000 in a 
portfolio bond, invested 100% in a with-profits fund. 
Mrs C made withdrawals from the bond in 2009, 2010 and 2011, before surrendering it in full 
later that year. NatWest say that in total Mrs C received £77,823.38 from the bond over the 
four years that it was invested. This was after a market value reduction was applied at 
surrender of £180.13. 
In September 2021, Mrs C complained to NatWest through a CMC. She said that due to the 
recent loss of her husband, she didnt have capacity to make such an investment decision 
and shouldnt have been advised because of this. She said that the bond carried some risk 
and was a medium-term investment and so shouldnt have been recommended, considering 
her circumstances at the time.  
NatWest initially responded to say that the complaint had been brought too late. Mrs C 
brought the complaint to our service for an independent review and our investigator 
concluded that the complaint had been brought to us in time. NatWest accepted this before 
the investigator considered the merits of the complaint and didnt think the business had 
done anything wrong. She said it was reasonable for NatWest to conclude that Mrs C had 
capacity and that the advice given was suitable. 
Mrs C remained unhappy. As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me 
to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to say that I sympathise with Mrs C, who has made us aware of the 
difficult time she has had, since the tragic loss of her husband. Whilst I acknowledge her 
points about what she was going through at the time of the advice, my consideration is 
whether NatWest should have determined that Mrs C didnt have capacity to agree to the 
advice given. 
I dont believe that was the case. Whilst I appreciate that the advice was soon after Mrs C 
received the life insurance policy proceeds, I believe the evidence supports that NatWest 
fairly concluded that Mrs C was capable of deciding to accept the advice or not. I say this as 
she had made other significant investment and life choices, including paying off her 
remaining mortgage. Whilst she wasnt able to work at the time, that doesnt constitute a lack 
of capacity to invest and I note she was recorded as looking to return to work. I think 
NatWest acted fairly in accepting instruction from Mrs C. 
Ive gone on to consider the suitability of the advice given. Ive looked at what I know about 
Mrs Cs overall financial situation when she took out this investment. In addition to what the 
parties have told me, I think its reasonable for me to rely on information in the fact find 
document and suitability letter. 
Mrs C wasnt working at the time of the advice but was said to be returning to work very 
soon. She had recently paid off her mortgage and had approximately £140,000 in the bank. 
Shed also made use of her ISA allowance for that year with a £7,000 investment some 
months prior. She was recorded as having no financial dependents. Although both her 
children lived at home they were recorded as working and her youngest child was 17 at the 
time of the advice. She was recorded as wanting to invest a lump sum for capital growth. 
Ive thought carefully about whether the investment fitted Mrs Cs risk approach, which was 
recorded as 2 on a scale of 1 to 5. With it saying that Mrs C was prepared to accept the risk 
of possibly losing some of my money and to see some fluctuations in value. The 
recommendation was for a with-profits fund bond which was said to provide an inflation 
beating guarantee. This was a guarantee of the amount invested with a return that tracked 
the Retail Price Index. 
Mrs C was advised to invest £75,000 of the £140,000 she had available. The risk to Mrs C 
was that there would be charges deducted for any surrenders in full or part in the first five 
years of investment, which Mrs C did experience. However, I havent seen anything from the 
point of sale that might have suggested she would need this money within that period. She 
had paid off her mortgage and this left her with approximately £65,000 in savings. Whilst she 
was out of work, she was said to be returning shortly and I dont think it was foreseeable for 
NatWest that this wouldnt happen. 
In summary, whilst Mrs C was going through a difficult time in her life at the time of the 
advice, I dont think the evidence suggests that NatWest should have concluded that she 
didnt have capacity to invest. I think the advice given was suitable for her circumstances at 
the time and there wasnt enough to conclude that she would need the invested amount 
within the first five years. The illustration provided to Mrs C and signed for explained clearly 
the costs involved with a surrender within that period.   My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman