DRN-3286269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that they were given incorrect advice by Vista Insurance 
Brokers Limited when they enquired whether they had cover for losses stemming from 
Covid-19.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E held a business interruption insurance policy through Vista. They said that in 
February 2020 they both called Vista separately and were told that they would be covered 
for losses caused by Covid-19 if it became a notifiable disease. Covid-19 was added to the 
Governments list of notifiable diseases on 5 March 2020. However, Mr and Mrs E said that 
on 5 March Vista told them they would only be covered if the losses were due to there being 
a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. Mr and Mrs E complained to Vista 
about being given incorrect information.
Vista said it didnt have any recordings or notes of the phone calls. It said the agent who had 
spoken to Mr and Mrs E recalled speaking with them but didnt think they would have said 
they would be covered because they had a number of calls with other customers and always 
quoted the policy wording. Vista also said the cover was set out clearly within Mr and       
Mrs Es policy document. 
Vista said Mr and Mrs Es complaint had highlighted that it needed to do more to follow up 
on any advice and also to record the conversations that had taken place. However, it didnt 
uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint as it said it couldnt determine whether they had been 
given incorrect advice. 
Unhappy with Vistas response, Mr and Mrs E brought their complaint to our service. They 
said they had missed out on buying cover elsewhere because of Vistas error.
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Es complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She thought it was likely that Vistas agent had told Mr and Mrs E that they would be covered 
but didnt think this meant Vista needed to compensate them. Thats because, she found that 
Mr and Mrs E hadnt tried to get alternative cover even after finding out that their policy didnt 
provide cover.  
Mr and Mrs E asked for an ombudsmans decision. They didnt think it was relevant that they 
hadnt looked for alternative cover and thought Vista should be penalised for its negligence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint, Ive considered whether Vista made a mistake and if so, 
whether that caused Mr and Mrs E a loss they wouldnt have otherwise had. 
Its unhelpful that Vista dont have any recordings or notes of the calls and I can understand 
Mr and Mrs Es frustration that its now impossible to know for sure what was discussed at 
that time. Mr and Mrs E have been consistent in their account of what they were told and the 
fact that they phoned back on 5 March supports that they were told they would be covered if 
Covid-19 became a notifiable disease. 
It is possible Vista made an error. But in order for me to direct Vista to compensate Mr and 
Mrs E, it needs to be shown this alleged error caused them losses. And I dont think Mr and 
Mrs E have shown that they did suffer a loss as a result of any error.
Its not in dispute that Vista told Mr and Mrs E on 5 March that they would only be covered if 
their losses were caused by a case of Covid-19 manifesting at their business premises. I 
understand Mr and Mrs E thought that it was too late to find alternative cover by this point 
and so didnt look around for an alternative policy, but I dont hold Vista responsible for that 
assumption. Its unclear exactly which policies were available for sale from 5 March which 
would have ultimately covered Mr and Mrs Es claim. However, as they didnt look for any 
other policies I dont have enough to fairly conclude that any error by Vista caused them a 
financial loss. Also, as Mr and Mrs E didnt look for alternative cover after 5 March, I find it 
less persuasive that they would have looked for alternative cover in February even if theyd 
known they werent covered. 
I recognise that it would have been disappointing for Mr and Mrs E to think they might be 
covered and then find out that they werent. However, I dont think Vista is responsible for 
them not having cover. So, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can 
fairly require Vista to compensate Mr and Mrs E given that they didnt look for alternative 
cover when they knew they werent covered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman