DRN-3737723
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline their 
claim made under a home insurance policy for damage to their barn which they state was 
caused by a storm.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T made their claim following a storm in February 2022 which they stated had 
blown out a corrugated side wall of the barn. They reported the roof had been lifted and the 
rear wall bent.
Aviva appointed a surveyor to assess whether the damage was covered under the insurance 
policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the surveyor, and Aviva accepts that it 
is accountable for these actions. Therefore when I refer to Aviva in this decision, this 
includes the actions of the surveyor.
The surveyors inspection was carried out virtually, and also relied on photographs provided. 
He concluded that whilst there were storm force winds at the time of the claim, the barn was 
suffering from wear and tear. He also suggested the roof supports had only been fixed into 
joist hangers, causing insufficient bracing. Aviva declined the claim on the basis that the 
main cause of the damage sustained was wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with Avivas conclusion. Mr T commented that the surveyor had 
incorrectly described the relationship of the rear elevation of the damaged barn to a second 
barn, explaining that the rear elevation formed a wall of the second barn. He said the second 
barn had been bent out of alignment. Mr T highlighted that when carrying out his virtual 
inspection, the surveyor said that it was difficult to view the barn interior due to light issues. 
As a result, Mr T questioned how effective the survey was. Whilst accepting that some of the 
Yorkshire boarding exhibited wear and tear, and there was a rusted section of corrugated 
iron base cladding that was visible, Mr T said these did not provide any structural support, 
and so were not relevant to the damage.
Mr T accepted that there was one rotting post which the farm gate closed on, but he said this 
had never moved when using the gate. He said further supporting posts were in sound 
condition, and that the three remaining walls of the barn were secure. He also commented 
that the roof had remained in one piece and was secure to the front elevation. He did not 
accept that the roof had only been fixed to the joist hangers. Mr T also said that the barn had 
withstood winds over the winter gusting to 60mph, irrespective of any wear and tear. In his 
view, it was the exceptional strength of the particular storm identified that had been the 
cause of the damage to the barn. He requested that Aviva arrange for an in person survey 
to be carried out, in light of the surveyors difficulty in seeing the internal condition of the barn 
during the remote inspection.
Aviva maintained its decision to decline the claim, and stated it would not be arranging a 
further survey. It explained that Mr and Mrs T could arrange for another surveyor to inspect 
the barn, and if this resulted in the claim being paid, it would reimburse this cost.
Dissatisfied with Avivas stance, Mr and Mrs T brought a complaint to this service. Mr T 
reiterated that to assess the damage appropriately required a surveyor to go inside the barn 
to inspect the condition of the timbers. He said all eight supporting timbers remained in place 
following the storm, despite the rotting observed to one corner upright. He also explained 
that the home was under offer when the storm occurred, and it had been agreed 
contractually with the new owners that any payment received from Aviva would be passed 
on to them.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint, concluding that based on the evidence 
provided, Aviva had acted fairly when declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the investigators findings. Mr T highlighted that the surveyor 
had accepted he had had difficulty viewing the inside of the barn due to the light. He also 
reiterated that the surveyor had incorrectly concluded that the roof supports had been fixed 
into the joist hangers. Mr T explained that in his view a physical inspection was required to 
properly investigate the cause of the damage. He also commented that he had sent Aviva 
photographs of the inside and outside of the barn, detailing what the surveyor could not see 
in his remote inspection. 
This complaint was passed to me for review. Mr T has recently forwarded four photographs 
with commentary about them which he considers to be particularly relevant. These included 
images showing the area of the barn where the side wall was blown out, the distorted rear 
wall, and the other side of that wall. Mr T has stated that if the structural timbers were rotten, 
they would have collapsed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts claim was considered by Aviva under the cover provided by the policy for 
storm damage. When considering whether an insurer has fairly dealt with a storm claim, this 
service generally looks at the following questions: were there storm conditions at the time of 
the event claimed for, is the damage sustained consistent with storm damage, and was the 
identified storm the main cause of the damage? Where we conclude that all three apply, we 
would normally expect an insurer to cover the claim.
In this case, Aviva does not dispute that there were storm conditions at the time that Mr and 
Mrs T state their barn was damaged. Weather records from the area where the property is 
situated show gusts over 80mph, and it is clear to me therefore that there was a storm.
In terms of the second question noted above, I need to consider whether the damage that 
was experienced is typical of the sort that could be caused by storm force winds. My view is 
that a wall being blown out from a shed is consistent with damage that can be sustained 
from violent winds.
I consider therefore that key to whether Aviva acted fairly in this case rests on whether the 
evidence indicates that the storm was likely the main cause of the damage being claimed 
for.
Avivas surveyor conducted his inspection remotely. Mr T has explained why he considers 
this was an inadequate way to establish the cause of the barn damage, and he has 
highlighted the surveyors own comments on his report that it was difficult to view internally 
due to the light. I acknowledge Mr Ts comments, and understand why he requested that a 
physical inspection be carried out. However, I consider it reasonable to treat the surveyors 
report as expert evidence and place some weight on it, despite the inspection being remote. Even with the difficulties the light caused to the surveyors virtual inspection, my view is that 
his report contains commentary that Aviva could reasonably take into account when 
assessing the claim. And I am mindful that Mr T had sent Aviva photographs of the inside 
and outside of the barn to assist with consideration of the claim.
In his report the surveyor commented that on the exterior of the barn there were several 
areas of rotting and wear/tear to the timbers. He also noted severe rotting to a support 
post, stating that this affected corner was adjacent to the side wall which had been blown 
out. The surveyor stated that the roof supports had merely been fixed into joist hangers. I 
appreciate that Mr T states this is incorrect.
The surveyor concluded that the barn was suffering from wear and tear in several areas 
with rotting and movement to timbers. He stated the storm force winds had highlighted the 
wear and tear issues, and Aviva declined the claim on this basis.
I must assess the fairness of Avivas decision to decline the claim on the balance of 
probabilities. Mr T has highlighted areas where he states the surveyors report is inaccurate. 
For example he has pointed out that the rear wall of the damaged barn formed a wall of the 
second barn, rather than abutting it. He also disputes what the surveyor recorded about the 
fixings used for the roof.
Mr T does accept that some of the boarding had wear and tear, and that there was some 
rusting of the corrugated iron base cladding, but he points out that these did not provide 
structural support. He also agrees that there was a rotting post which the farm gate closed 
on, but he says it never moved when the gate was in use. And he says further supporting 
posts were in good condition.
I have carefully considered the detailed submissions Mr T has made in support of his 
request that Aviva cover the claim. I accept that a physical inspection of the barn by an 
expert may have been of benefit in the assessment of this claim. But based on the 
surveyors observations regarding wear and tear to the building, on balance it seems 
reasonable to me that Aviva concluded this was the main cause of the barn damage, in the 
absence of any other expert evidence being provided to the contrary.
Mr T acknowledges that the barn was exhibiting signs of wear and tear. He has highlighted 
that there were strong winds throughout the winter of 2021/22, and the barn had survived 
those. And it is the case that the storm that led Mr and Mrs T to make the claim produced 
winds that were of considerable strength. But, although he didnt visit the barn, the 
surveyors remote inspection led him to explain why he considered wear and tear was the 
dominant reason for the barn suffering the damage that was claimed for. Overall, my view is 
that Aviva acted fairly when relying on the surveyors findings.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T are likely to be disappointed with my findings, and I am sorry 
to learn of the damage that the barn sustained. However, for the reasons outlined above, I 
do not consider Aviva should be required to take any further action in relation to the 
insurance claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 John Swain
Ombudsman