DRN-4260301
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Paysafe Financial Services Limited (trading as Neteller) closed her 
account and removed funds from it without her consent.
What happened
Mrs G had an account with Neteller.
 
On 16 September 2022, Mrs G received €484 into her account, which Mrs G said was 
payment for a mobile phone she sold to an individual I will refer to as H.
The following day Neteller decided to review how Mrs G was operating her account and took 
the decision to send the payment Mrs G had received back to the senders account, H. 
Neteller didnt question Mrs G about the payment she received from H. Following this 
Neteller closed Mrs Gs account immediately and released her balance to her.
Mrs G complained to Neteller and asked them to return the moneyit had returned to H back 
to her. She told Neteller that the transaction was legitimate and done in good faith. And said 
she was now out of pocket and without the phone she sold. In response, Neteller said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and wouldnt return the money to Mrs G. Unhappy with this 
response Mrs G brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. And asked Mrs G for some more 
information about the payment that came into her account from H. Mrs G explained that she 
sold a phone to someone at a fair which was held close to where she lived. And that the 
phone she sold to H had been bought by a relative in April 2022. Mrs G sent the investigator 
an invoice in support of her explanation. She said that H must be a scammer and told their 
bank to recall the funds, which is wrong.
The investigator looked at the information Mrs G had provided and recognised that Neteller 
hadnt asked Mrs G for entitlement to the money that had been paid into her account. So, 
she didnt think it was reasonable the money was returned to source. She also didnt think 
Neteller had treated Mrs G fairly when it closed her account without notice. So, she asked 
Neteller to:
Return the €484 plus 8% statutory interest, which had been returned to source back 
to Mrs G
Pay Mrs G £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Mrs G accepted the investigators view. Neteller disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. It said it acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Gs account 
when it returned the payment back to source and closed the account. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Gs complaint is that she wants Neteller to refund her the money she says 
she lost as a result of selling her mobile phone to H. Neteller decided to return the funds to 
the senders account, H. Neteller said it did this because it had concerns H may have fallen 
victim to a scam and may not even have been aware that the money had been sent to 
Mrs G account.  So, it didnt think Mrs G was therefore entitled to the €484. The effect of 
Netellers actions meant that Mrs G has lost both her mobile phone which shed sold 
legitimately and the money she had expected in payment for it.
Ive looked at Netellers terms and conditions of Mrs Gs account that refer to returning funds 
to source and they state:
Transactions are final and are not reversible save in the following circumstances and at our 
sole discretion: where we confirm there has been a Merchant error; where there is illegal 
activity involving your Account; or where you are in breach of these Terms of Use
If you conduct or attempt to conduct any transaction in violation of the prohibitions contained 
in this section 14 or without the necessary approval under section 14.5, we reserve the right 
to: reverse the transaction; and/or close or suspend your Account; and/or report the 
transaction to the relevant law enforcement agency; and/or claim damages from you; and 
charge you an administration fee as displayed in the "Fees" section of the Website if we 
apply any of the above.
Having considered the above term, theres no evidence to suggest Mrs G dishonestly 
procured the funds from H. Nor is there any evidence that she knew, believed, or suspected 
that the funds had been illegitimately procured by someone else in order to pay for the 
mobile phone which she sold. Despite this Neteller made the decision to return the payment 
back to the original source. But its only fair for a financial business to return funds to source 
when theyre completely satisfied a customer isnt entitled to the funds. 
I think it would have been helpful if Neteller had asked Mrs G for proof of entitlement to the 
funds and to provide an explanation of how she came to be paid money from H. This is good 
industry practice and in line with the APP Best Practice Standards from UK Finance. I 
havent seen any evidence that Neteller involved Mrs G in deciding that Mrs G wasnt 
entitled to the money paid into her account. Neteller hasnt advised that they received any 
contact from H raising concerns about the funds which entered Mrs Gs account. So, I dont 
know how they satisfied themselves that Mrs G wasnt entitled to the money that she 
received from H. Neteller also didnt ask Mrs G for proof of entitlement to the funds. Our 
service has however, asked Mrs G for proof of entitlement to the funds. She hasnt provided 
much but has explained that she sold a mobile phone and given us an invoice showing she 
owned a phone to sell. 
This service also hasnt, of course, investigated how H was using their account. Netellers 
terms said that it was Mrs Gs responsibility to ensure that she only received payments in 
compliance with any applicable laws and regulations. That included, in my view ensuring that 
she only received payments that were properly authorised (in this case) by the account 
holder H. If she received unauthorised payments, then they would be returned.
 
Ive no reason to doubt what Mrs G has said about the funds, and in the absence of 
evidence to the contrary, Ive no reason to think this isnt the case. On balance Im satisfied 
the evidence Mrs G has supplied is enough to demonstrate she is entitled to the funds deposited in her account. Overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im not satisfied that 
Ive seen enough evidence to justify Neteller applying the term outlined above. So, I think the 
fair resolution her, based on the information Ive seen would be for Neteller to refund Mrs G 
€ 484. I also think as Mrs G has been deprived of these funds since September 2022 
Neteller should pay Mrs G 8% interest per annum from the date the funds were returned to 
the date they are refunded.
I next turn to Netellers decision to close Mrs Gs account. Neteller can close accounts in 
certain circumstances, and it sets this out in the terms and conditions of the account. 
Neteller say Mrs G failed its verification process. But it hasnt provided any evidence to 
support this. Having reviewed all the information, I would expect to see stronger evidence 
than it has provided. Taking this into account, I have seen nothing that convinces me an 
immediate closure was warranted or permitted under the terms and conditions. Having 
looked at whats happened here, I think Neteller should have given Mrs G more notice.
Looking at the impact the immediate closure had on Mrs G, I think Neteller should pay her 
£100 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused.
In summary, Netellers actions caused Mrs G trouble and upset. She was left out of pocket, 
and I dont think Neteller did enough to satisfy themselves that Mrs G wasnt entitled to the 
money paid into her account. So, I think they should refund her as she is now at a loss. And I 
think adding interest to the amount they refund her fairly compensates her for the loss of use 
of the money. I also think Neteller should pay Mrs G compensation for unfairly closing her 
account. I consider the amount of £100 to be appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mrs Gs complaint. To put things right Paysafe 
Financial Services Limited should:
Refund Mrs G €484
Pay Mrs G simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum on € 484 from the date of 
debit until the date of refund.
Pay an additional £100 for the trouble and upset caused by closing Mrs Gs account 
immediately
HM Revenue & Customs requires Paysafe Financial Services Limited to withhold income tax 
from the above-mentioned interest. Paysafe Financial Services Limited  should give Mrs G a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Mrs G asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman