DRN-3444277
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service he has received from Interactive Investor Services 
Limited (Interactive).
What happened
In June 2021 Mr B was transferred over to Interactives trading platform. However he 
repeatedly had issues in trying to access his online trading account.
Our investigator considered everything the parties had said but didnt conclude that 
Interactive had done anything wrong. Mr B appealed  he said that all his contacts 
successfully use the email account he gave to Interactive. He felt that Interactive should 
have attempted to resolve the problem.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I find is the right outcome.
I recognise that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not upholding his 
complaint. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reason why.
I can see that Mr B contacted Interactive on several occasions as he wasnt able to gain 
access to his online account. Ive no doubt that this was both upsetting and frustrating for 
him.  I can see too that Interactive responded and sent more than twenty links for the 
password to be re-set. They also called on more than one occasion to see if Mr B had had 
any joy with logging on and to assist in resolving the issue, which was ongoing for some 
months.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that Interactive did all they could to assist Mr B. And for 
this reason I dont find that they did anything wrong. It follows that I dont find they are liable 
for any trading or other losses.
Although Mr B maintains that the email address he gave Interactive, which ended in .com is 
successfully used by his contacts, it may well be that this did cause an issue here. I say this 
as in fact his email ended .co.uk. In any even Im pleased to note that Mr B now has access 
to his account.
My final decision
For the reason given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman