DRN-2305143
The complaint
Mr P says Western Circle Ltd trading as Paydayloansnet lent to him irresponsibly. Mr P says 
he couldnt afford the repayments to this loan. He says that Paydayloansnet should have 
seen this from his credit file this would be the case and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan Paydayloansnet provided to Mr P. The loan was 
started on 1 August 2018 and was for £400. Mr P was due to make two repayments of 
£254.51. I understand Mr P has been unable to make these repayments and the loan is 
outstanding. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. They thought that Paydayloansnet should have been 
aware from the information it had that Mr P would be unable to sustainably repay the loan. 
Paydayloansnet disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that as this was his first 
loan, and the amount borrowed was modest, it was reasonable to rely on his declared 
income and expenditure. This showed the loan repayments were affordable. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Paydayloansnet needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Paydayloansnet should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
The information that Paydayloansnet obtained at the time of sale showed that it was likely 
that Mr P had some financial problems. And a proportionate check wouldve confirmed this. 
Amongst other things, Mr P had recently taken a significant amount of other short term 
loans. He also had other debts, and he was struggling to repay all of these. This information 
was largely available in the credit agency information that Paydayloansnet obtained. 
This should have indicated to Paydayloansnet that Mr P wouldnt have been able repay this 
loan in a sustainable way. And this was borne out going forward. 
And whilst I accept that this was Mr Ps first loan, and the loan amount was modest, it still 
doesnt mean it was affordable to him. And Paydayloansnet had information that shows this 
was unlikely to be the case. 
So I think that Paydayloansnet shouldnt have given this loan to Mr P and I think hes lost out 
as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
Paydayloansnet shouldnt have given Mr P the loan it approved on 1 August 2018.
If Paydayloansnet has sold any outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Paydayloansnet is not able to buy the debts back 
then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Paydayloansnet should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Paydayloansnet should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Paydayloansnet should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr P having made 
overpayments then Paydayloansnet should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Paydayloansnet should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr P. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Paydayloansnet should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr P. 
Paydayloansnet shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
Paydayloansnet has already written-off.E) Paydayloansnet should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Paydayloansnet to deduct tax from this interest. 
Paydayloansnet should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax Paydayloansnet has 
deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman