DRN-2089928
The complaint
Mr R complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) provided poor service and didnt deal 
properly with a claim he made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R told UKI on 5 February 2020 that his car was damaged whilst on a motorway when the 
wheel of a truck detached and hit his car. He said the driver accepted fault at the scene and 
had called his employer (firm A) to report the accident. Mr R wasnt happy when he was 
later required to pay the policy excess when the repairs to his car were done. UKI told Mr R 
it was waiting for the companys insurer to respond to its correspondence. He chased UKI for 
updates and was told on 31 March 2020 that the accident was being treated as a fault claim. 
But when he called firm A, it confirmed that it had accepted liability from the outset. 
When UKI dealt with Mr Rs complaint, it accepted that it should have made more contact 
with him. And it said it had made an error initially in sending the wrong details to the other 
insurer, which had caused a short delay. It apologised and offered Mr R £100 compensation. 
But it said the claim would remain open and would be recorded as a fault claim, as the other 
insurer hadnt accepted liability. That meant Mr R lost some of his no claims discount 
(NCD), didnt get his policy excess back and noted that his premium had gone up. 
UKI said the other insurer had provided a valid MOT certificate for the truck, plus a copy of a 
daily vehicle defect report that showed it had been fully checked on the day of the accident. 
Mr R said firm A had accepted fault and that UKIs error had caused confusion and delay. 
But the other insurer continued to deny liability, on the basis that there was no evidence of 
negligence on the part of firm A. When UKI sought legal advice, its litigator said that - given 
the evidence the other insurer had supplied - there were no prospects of UKI taking 
successful legal action. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Rs complaint. She thought it was reasonable for UKI 
to decide it couldnt pursue the case in court. She thought it had done enough to investigate 
the claim. She said UKI had the right to deal with it as it saw fit and was entitled to rely on 
the evidence that showed the truck was in good condition and had been checked on the 
morning of the accident. She pointed out that a fault claim doesnt always mean a consumer 
is to blame for an accident  just that the insurer has been unable to recover its outlay.
Mr R said the documents UKI had relied on could be fraudulent and that wed assumed they 
were genuine. He said he wanted his complaint to be escalated, so it was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy, UKI has the right to decide how to deal with any claim. We only intervene  
if we think an insurer has acted unreasonably, by not investigating a claim or by reaching a 
conclusion that doesnt seem to be supported by the facts.
 
In this case, the other driver accepted fault at the scene and firm A later told Mr R that it 
accepted liability for the accident. But a decision on liability can only be made by the insurer 
that provided the policy the claim is being made against, based on its knowledge and 
experience. Its clear from the notes on the file that firm A wouldnt engage with UKI at all 
when asked why it had accepted liability initially. I think that was to be expected once its 
insurer had been notified of the claim, as it then became the insurers role to deal with it. And 
the insurer said from the outset that it wouldnt accept liability, as it thought there was no 
evidence of negligence on the part of its insured.
 
I can see why Mr R thinks that cant be the case, as he did nothing wrong and his car was 
damaged as a result of a wheel or tyre detaching from the truck and hitting his car. He was 
subjected to a traumatic experience as a result of that, plus financial loss. And the 
consequences of the accident could have been far more serious for him than they were. So I 
think its entirely understandable that Mr R wants to be sure that the incident was dealt with 
correctly by UKI. 
As the other insurer denied liability, UKIs only option would have been to argue its case in 
court. It would have been required to prove that the accident was caused by negligence. I 
think UKI has shown that it considered whether it could do that successfully. But it didnt 
think it could, and the legal advice it got confirmed it. I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely 
on that advice.
 
Mr R has assumed that there must have been negligence on the part of firm A, so in his view 
the checks on the truck cant have been done properly. He thinks the document recording 
those checks on the morning of the accident must have been fabricated or created after the 
accident. He says unless UKI checked the date the document was created, it shouldnt rely 
on it. And he thinks we cant accept it as part of UKIs case either. 
Mr R hasnt explained how he thinks UKI would have been able to check the date on which a 
hand-written document was created. I dont think there would have been any way of doing 
that, even if UKI thought it was appropriate. I think it was reasonable for UKI to accept the 
documents the other insurer provided in good faith. Sometimes, an accident can happen 
without any fault on the part of either of the parties to it  or at least, with no evidence of any 
blame. I dont think it was wrong for UKI to decide that was the case here. 
UKI paid for the recovery of Mr Rs car and for the repairs to it. As it hasnt been able to 
recover its outlay, I think it was fair for it to record a fault claim against his policy. Mr R says 
that will affect him for good when buying insurance. This may be of little comfort to Mr R, but 
insurers normally only ask about claims made in the previous five years, and the effect of a 
claim generally declines during that period. Mr R has also lost part of his NCD, his policy 
excess hasnt been refunded and his premium has risen. That must be very frustrating, and I 
can see why he doesnt think its fair. But that doesnt mean UKI did anything wrong. 
I think UKI dealt reasonably with its poor service issues by paying Mr R £100 compensation. 
And as I dont think he can show that it acted unreasonably in dealing with the liability aspect 
of his claim, I cant uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021. Susan Ewins
Ombudsman