DRN-2633416
The complaint
Mr B complains that Arrow Global Limited is attempting to collect a debt that he was told had
been written off.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 26 January 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint. I said: 
What happened
Arrow purchased a debt in Mr Bs name from another business. In 2017 Mr Bs debts were
being managed by a third party organisation. In December 2017 Arrow wrote to the third
party and advised the balance of Mr Bs account had been written off and that he wouldnt be
pursued for repayment.
In 2020 Mr B contacted Arrow about another matter. Arrow advised that its previous letter
had been sent in error and that the debt hadnt been written off. Mr B complained.
Arrow issued its final response on 4 June 2020 and said its letter from December 2017
had been sent in error. Arrow said Mr Bs account hadnt been written off. Arrow sent Mr B
£200 to apologise for its error.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The
investigator thought Arrow had dealt with Mr Bs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything
else. Mr B asked to appeal and said Arrow should be bound by its letter confirming it had
written his debt off. As Mr B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make
a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B is upset as Arrow incorrectly told him over £6,000 had been
written off. Mr B has asked why Arrow isnt bound by the information it has provided about
his account. I take Mr Bs point and I understand why he feels let down. But I have to be fair
to both parties and I wouldnt expect either to be bound by a genuine error. Im sorry to
disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied thats what has happened here.
Arrow has sent us internal emails that show Mr B was told his account was written off due to
an error in December 2017. It appears the account was marked as written off instead of a
revised payment plan being set up. So, whilst I understand this has come as a big shock to
Mr B, Im satisfied that a genuine error did occur. To put it another way, had Arrow correctly
administered Mr Bs account, I dont believe it would have written to him in December
2017 to say the debt had been written off.
As a result, Arrow failed to collect payments from Mr B and stopped contacting him about the
debt. Arrow has asked Mr B to contact it to arrange payments going forward. Whilst I
understand my decision may feel harsh to Mr B, Im satisfied the debt exists and Arrows
request that he repay it is reasonable.
Ive considered whether £200 is fair when considering the impact of Arrows error on Mr B.
Its clear that for a long time Mr B has believed his liability for this debt was over. The
remaining balance is substantial and I dont doubt repaying it will impact Mr B. In addition, Mr
B understandably feels let down and upset by such a significant mistake. In my view, £200
doesnt fairly reflect what happened and how the errors have and will affect Mr B. So I intend
to increase the award from £200 to £500, a figure that I think more fairly reflects the impact
of Arrows error on Mr B.
It's not clear what Arrow has reported on Mr Bs credit file since it told him the debt had been
written off. But, given its error, I dont think it would be fair for Arrow to have recorded any
new adverse information on Mr Bs credit file beyond December 2017. So, in addition, I
intend to tell Arrow to remove any new adverse information reported from that date.  
I asked Mr B and Arrow to respond by 25 February 2021 with any comments or information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr B responded to say he 
remained unhappy with Arrows actions but accepted my provisional decision. Arrow didnt 
respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new information, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld, for the 
same reasons.   
Putting things right
To resolve Mr Bs complaint, I direct Arrow to:
- Remove any new adverse information reported after December 2017
- Pay Mr B £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused (less any compensation 
already paid)  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Arrow Global Limited to settle in line 
with the above guidance. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman