DRN-3593500
The complaint
In summary, Mr W has complained about the advice provided by Zurich Assurance Ltd 
(trading as Allied Dunbar), to take out a free standing additional voluntary contribution plan 
(FSAVC). 
Mr W is represented in this complaint by a claims management company (CMC), but for the 
ease of reading Ill mainly refer to Mr W.
What happened
In 1997 Mr W met with one of Zurichs representatives. Mr W was in his mid-40s and a 
member of the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS), which he joined in 1973.  A fact find 
document recording details of Mr Ws financial circumstances was completed. This recorded 
that Mr W was not contributing into an inhouse AVC plan. 
Zurich recommended Mr W top up his existing pension arrangements by contributing £60 a 
month into an FSAVC. This was to enable Mr W to have pension benefits in addition to those 
provided by the TPS.
When Mr W referred the complaint to our service, Zurich didnt think it had been made in 
time. One of our investigators explained why he didnt think the complaint had been made in 
time. Mr Ws representative didnt agree. 
One of my ombudsman colleagues then looked into whether the complaint was one that our 
service could look into. They concluded that it was and set out their reasoning in a final 
jurisdiction decision.  
The merits of Mr Ws complaint were then looked into by the investigator. He explained why 
he thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. In essence, he didnt think Zurichs 
representative had complied with the regulatory guidance which applied to tied advisers 
when the FSAVC was recommended to Mr W. And he thought that if Zurich done what it 
should have, then Mr W would most likely have chosen to use the in house AVC scheme to 
receive his additional pension contributions. 
Zurich didnt agree with what the investigator said, so the case has been passed to me to 
review. In summary Zurich thought Mr W would have been aware of the inhouse AVC 
scheme as a result of the reference to this in respect of his wife in the fact find. And it said 
he was made aware of the difference in costs from the topping up booklets he received. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr W met with Zurichs representative, the individual who advised him was what was 
known as a tied adviser. This meant the representative could only recommend products 
offered by Zurich. They werent able to recommend any products from other providers, 
including any options provided by Mr Ws occupational pension scheme (OPS). They werent 
required to approach Mr Ws OPS for details of the scheme or find out what the benefits 
were. 
In addition, there were regulatory rules in place at the time Mr W met with the representative, 
that set out guidance for tied advisers when providing advice. These were set by the then 
regulator, the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). The 
LAUTRO rules set out that an adviser should:
Maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, care and 
diligence in providing any services, and generally take proper account of the interests 
of investors.
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational scheme and give the consumer all information relevant 
to their dealings with the representative in question.
The successor regulatory scheme to LAUTRO, the Personal Investment Authority (PIA); 
codified the requirements for advisers to follow in May 1996. This was contained in 
Regulatory Update 20. And in essence this said before selling an FSAVC a tied adviser 
should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, among 
other things, of the features described in this article)
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-
house option
And given the content of the article, this would also have included referencing the lower 
charges usually applicable to an in house AVC scheme.
With this regulatory background in mind, Ive considered what happened in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint. After Zurich met with Mr W it produced a suitability letter 
which set out the basis of its advice to Mr W. 
The letter records Mr Ws objective to provide income for early retirement in addition to his 
employers pension scheme. And it refers to a booklet; Topping up your Occupational 
Scheme benefits  Your choice. The suitability letter said this set out the benefits of the 
pension being recommended and those typically available under an employers inhouse 
AVC scheme. 
In the recommendation section it refers to the AVC pension account (the FSAVC) being 
recommended, as it would provide benefits in addition to those under the employers 
scheme. It recorded that Mr Ws priority was identified as being to provide an income for 
early retirement in addition to that provided by his OPS. His existing provision was identified 
as being insufficient for his needs and that he should build on his existing arrangements. 
Surprisingly the letter makes no reference to charges usually being lower with the inhouse 
AVC scheme. And Im not satisfied that the letter drew attention the inhouse alternative or 
directed Mr W to his employer for more information about the inhouse option.Ive also considered the Topping up your Occupational Scheme benefits  Your choice 
booklet that the suitability letter refers to as being provided to Mr W. Although the suitability 
letter says the booklet was provided to Mr W, its not clear to me whether the contents were 
discussed with Mr W during the advice process. And the suitability letter suggests to me that 
it may have been given to him to read at some later point. 
Nevertheless, Ive considered the contents of the booklet. There is a section which is headed 
Charges. In respect of an AVC, this says that the employer may have agreed enhanced 
terms with the insurance company And this may mean that the charges levied on 
contributions to an in house AVC are lower than the AVC pension account, particularly in the 
early days. It goes on to say that over the life of the plan these may even out.
Im not persuaded that even if this information had been brought to Mr Ws attention, that he 
would necessarily have understood from all of the information provided, that the charges 
under any in house AVC that might be available, would be lower. I say this because whilst I 
accept the section does say that charges under an in house AVC might be lower, in my 
opinion this section read as a whole, is equivocal on this point. This is because it goes on to 
say that over the life of the plan, the charges may even themselves out. And I think that as a 
result, Mr W could well have been left with the impression that over the life of the plan, 
charges would have made little difference. And it doesnt specifically direct a customer to 
their employer or the OPS for more information on the in-house option. So, Im not satisfied 
that the suitability letter and booklet together satisfied the regulators requirements in this 
particular case.
Ive also thought about the arguments made by Zurich as to why the complaint should not be 
upheld. It has highlighted the reference to Mrs Ws in house AVC on the fact find, and that 
the suitability letter records that the topping up booklet and the FSAVC and benefits under 
the inhouse AVC scheme had been discussed and understood by Mr W. And it referred to 
the further topping up booklet sent in 2001 and that Mr W made a conscious decision to 
maintain his FSAVC rather than request a review and made ongoing contributions into the 
FSAVC until the age 55. 
Im not persuaded by Zurichs arguments in this case. I say that because I dont think the 
reference Zurich has made to Mrs Ws AVC on the fact find, is sufficient evidence to show 
that Zurichs representative complied with its regulatory requirements at that time. I say this 
because the fact find merely records that Mrs W had an AVC that she contributed into. And 
there isnt sufficient evidence in that document or in the suitability letter in my opinion, of any 
discussion in respect of Mr Ws pension options; for example, having his attention drawn to 
the inhouse alternative and directing him to his employer or the OPS for more information on 
the inhouse option
Ive already explained why I think in this case that the Topping up booklet Zurich says it 
provided to Mr W in 1997 was inadequate. And in respect of the revised booklet that Zurich 
says was sent to Mr W in 2001, that was provided some four years after the initial advice 
and information was given to Mr W. So, it cant have impacted on what he was told when the 
recommendation was made to him, and his decision to accept that recommendation. 
Also, the fact that Zurich felt it necessary to revise the booklet provided to Mr W in 1997 and 
send an updated version in 2001, suggests to me that Zurich may have believed the original 
booklet wasnt as clear in respect of charges as it should have been. In addition, the 
template letter that Zurich says was sent to Mr W (but for which it has provided no evidence 
that it was sent to him) doesnt indicate or suggest that the original advice needed to be 
revisited. So, even if Mr W did receive this letter, Im not persuaded that the letter and booklet would necessarily have alerted him that the original advice he received needed to be 
revisited. 
Ive also considered whether added years would have been a relevant consideration for 
Mr W. I dont think it would have been in this case. I say this because Mr W made a relatively 
small monthly contribution of £60 a month into the FSAVC.  So, he seems to have had a 
limited amount of money to pay in respect of contributions. Added years can in my 
experience be an expensive method of making retirement provision. 
It seems Mr W was considering retiring early. And whilst it would not have made any 
difference in respect of early retirement if an AVC or FSAVC had been used, because added 
years tend to be geared up over a term to the normal retirement date under a scheme, then 
get reduced when a policy holder breaks the contract early - firstly for less contributions and 
then an early retirement factor. So as Mr W seems to have been considering early retirement 
and seems to have had a limited budget, I dont think added years would have been an 
appropriate option for him.
Putting things right
Zurich Assurance Limited should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the 
regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 
January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich Assurance Limited should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 
January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to uphold Mr Ws complaint about Zurich 
Assurance Ltd. If Mr W accepts my decision, it should calculate and pay Mr W compensation 
if he has suffered a loss, using the methodology Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman