DRN-3312102
The complaint
Mr C complains that Next Retail Limited trading as Next Directory (Next) lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided credit that was unaffordable for him.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr C opened a shopping account with Next. He had an initial account limit of 
£125. In November 2017 Mr Cs credit limit was increased to £2,000. He actively accepted 
that increase. 
In November 2018 his credit limit was reduced to £1,500 when Next received further 
information from a credit reference agency. Mr Cs limit was reduced again to £150 in 
February 2019 to prevent further borrowing by Mr C.
 
Mr Cs account was suspended in April 2019 as he had fallen further into arrears. Mr C 
entered a debt management plan.
Mr C says that when he first applied for the account Next should have checked his credit 
record. He says if they had done so that they would have seen that he was a student with a 
very small income. He says that Next shouldnt have increased his credit limit either because 
he couldnt repay it within a reasonable period. He says Next should have realised he was in 
trouble because he only ever made the minimum repayment.
Mr C wants the outstanding balance on his account cleared.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Next hadnt irresponsibly supplied Mr C with credit or failed to 
monitor his account appropriately. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so his case has been passed to me to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Cs complaint.
Next needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C could afford 
to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, Mr Cs borrowing history and his income and expenditure. 
The credit check results provided by Next didnt show anything negative to suggest it would 
have been unreasonable to have opened his account or to have increased Mr Cs credit limit 
in November 217. Given the large increase, I think Next ought to have taken steps to build a 
picture of Mr Cs financial situation, for example by asking for Mr Cs income and 
expenditure.
Our adjudicator requested evidence from Mr C of his financial circumstances from 2017 in 
the form of bank statements and his credit file so that they could understand what Next might 
have seen if it asked for more information at the time. Unfortunately, Mr C could not provide 
these. He told us that he did not have a credit file because he didnt have any credit. The 
adjudicator explained that he would still have had a credit file (not least because he did have 
credit with Next) but Mr C was still unable to provide one. So, I cant tell what Next wouldve 
seen if it had completed the checks I think would have been necessary and proportionate at 
the time of the credit increase. 
I can see that Mr C fell into arrears in January 2019. Up to that point he had been making 
regular repayments in excess of the minimum required. In February 2019 Mr Cs credit limit 
was reduced to £150 to prevent further spending. And Nexts checks began to show that the 
credit was becoming less affordable for Mr C. Mr C made no further payments on the 
account from February 2019 and his account was suspended in April 2019.
I dont think the way Mr C used his account and the period he had held the balance should 
have on its own shown Next that he might have been experiencing underlying difficulties 
before the point at which he fell into arrears. And it seems that Next then took prompt action 
to prevent further spending. 
On balance, I have not seen any evidence to suggest that Next treated Mr C unfairly in any 
way.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint which means Next Retail Limited does not need to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman