DRN-3543384
The complaint
Mr P complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans (Likely Loans) 
lent him money on high interest loans which he was unable to afford to repay. He also 
complained about the high rate of interest.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr P with the following loans:
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
Loan 1 2/5/2019 £1,000 12 months £109.78 10/2/2020
Loan 2 10/02/2020 £906.89* 12 months £99.56 3/9/2020
Loan 3 3/9/2020 £1028.37* 18 months £84.69 12/10/2021
*includes repayment of the balance of the previous loan.
Mr P complained that the interest rate was very high. He couldnt afford to pay the loans with 
such a high interest rate and pay his bills.
Likely Loans said Mr P was advised of the interest rate in the loan agreement documents he 
signed. It further said that from the information it obtained, the loans were affordable and 
sustainable. It explained that it carried out a credit check for each loan, and verified Mr Ps 
income and assessed his regular outgoings, by using ONS (Office for National Statistics) 
data..
Our adjudicator said that in respect of all the loans, Likely Loans acted reasonably and that 
she hadnt seen any evidence to indicate that Likely Loans should have concluded the loans 
werent sustainable.
Mr P didnt agree, he believed Likely Loans didnt fairly check his credit history and that the 
interest rate was too high.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Likely Loans had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
The loans were for relatively small amounts, two were for 12 months (which are short term 
loans, also known as payday loans, according to the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
regulations), and one for 18 months. Bearing that in mind I think that Likely Loans carried out 
proportionate checks in respect of each loan i.e. it did what was necessary to get an overall 
picture of Mr Ps finances without the need to do more exhaustive checks. I should add that 
a credit report might not show the full extent of a consumers debts since some loan 
companies dont register their data with every credit agency. And if any loan/credit had been 
taken out recently at the time of the application that too might not show. With that in mind it 
is up to the applicant to tell the loan company if there are any other debts it might not have 
taken into account.
Likely Loans have advised that in respect of each loan, the original credit check report isnt 
available. But it did process the data I received into its system and has shown us the data extracted. It has also provided an up to date (at April 2022) credit report which has data 
going back six years.
loan 1
The data showed that Mr P had credit commitments for loans for around £494 and a total 
revolving credit (like credit cards) debt of £16. He had several defaults on his record but 
was currently up to date. He also had an old County Court Judgment (CCJ) which at the 
date of application was 44 months old. With the cost of the new loan and an income of 
£1,655, this meant that his credit commitments would be near to 37% of his income. which 
was rather high.
But I have noted that Mr P was assessed to have monthly disposable income of around 
£432, taking into account the new loan instalments. And his credit record didnt show any 
recent payday loans so I dont think the information obtained by Likely Loans showed that 
Mr P was struggling with debts or credit. So I think the loan was affordable and that Likely 
Loans made a fair lending decision.
loan 2 
Mr P requested further money from Likely Loans before his first loan had been repaid. The 
credit checks showed that his credit commitments had decreased. Although his spending 
with credit cards had increased to £942. However even taking that into account, by the time 
this loan was issued, with the new loan instalment (having paid off loan 1), Mr Ps credit 
commitments were about 20% of his income.
His monthly disposable income was less, about £271, but as he appeared to be paying off 
his loan debts, I think it was reasonable for Likely Loans to assess that the loan was 
affordable. Again I think it made a fair lending decision.
loan 3
Again Mr P requested more funds before hed finished paying for the previous loan. He still 
had the same debt on credit cards and his credit commitments, with the new loan instalment 
had gone up to around 26% of his income. No further defaults were shown on his record. He 
was assessed as having a disposable income of around £280 a month taking into account 
the new loan instalments
I think, although there were indications that Mr Ps spending on credit had increased, he was 
still able to afford the loan. I have taken into account that he seems to have paid the 
instalments for both previous loans without difficulty or at least without raising any such 
difficulty with Likely Loans. So I think Likely Loans made a fair lending decision.
interest rate
In respect of the interest rate its unfortunate that people with bad credit records (such as 
loan defaults or CCJs) wouldnt have access to cheap lending. The loans here, two of which 
were payday loans, were available to people with poor credit records but the interest rates 
charge reflect the risk to the business. Here the interest rate charged for all three loans was 
69.9%. It might be helpful if I explain that the interest rate that businesses are allowed to 
charge for payday loans (up to 12 months) is capped so that the borrower wont be required 
to pay any more than the total amount of the loan by way of interest. In respect of loan 1 the 
interest on £1,000 was about £317, on loan 2, about £288, and on loan 3 over a longer 
period, about £496. So the rates charged here were within the rules. And Ive noted that 
Likely Loans kept the same rate for loan 3 though it didnt have to.Mr P would have been sent all the documents which clearly set out the interest rate, to sign 
and would have had 14 days at the start of the loan to decide whether he wished to continue 
with the loan. He did so, and didnt complain about the loans until hed been paying for loan 
3 for five months. Im sorry if he got into financial difficulty, but on the evidence Ive seen I 
think at the time of applying for each loan they were reasonably assessed as being 
affordable and Likely Loans has charged the interest rate that it said it would charge in the 
documents.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman