DRN-3381099
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Frenkel Topping Limited gave them unsuitable advice to take 
out a whole-of-life insurance policy.
What happened
In 2004, Mr and Mrs W received advice from Frenkel Topping as they had a potential 
Inheritance Tax (IHT) liability they wanted to cover. At the time their potential liability was 
around £146,000. Frenkel Topping advised Mr and Mrs W to take out a reviewable joint 
whole-of-life policy set up to pay out on the second death. Frenkel Topping advised Mr and 
Mrs W to put the policy in trust for their daughter. The policy was set up on a maximum basis 
 this is that it is designed to provide the highest amount of cover for the lowest premium. 
The premium would be set for 10 years when it would then be reviewed, and every five 
years after. The policy cost £15 per month, which was the minimum premium available. After 
medical underwriting, the policy provided a sum assured of around £278,000.
In 2014, Mr and Mrs Ws policy was reviewed. The policy provider set out that to maintain 
the current sum assured for a further five years Mr and Mrs W would have to increase their 
premium to £22.91 per month. Alternatively they could reduce their sum assured to 
£216,330. Mr and Mrs W chose to increase the premium. In 2019, the policy provider set out 
that Mr and Mrs W would need to increase their premium to £78.82 to maintain their sum 
assured. Mr and Mrs W then cancelled their policy. They say the increase felt unreasonable 
and it wasnt explained to them the premium could increase by so much. They complained 
as they said they wouldnt have taken a policy if theyd have been told at the outset that the 
premium could rise that much in 15 years.
I sent my provisional decision on 17 February 2022. In this decision I explained that I didnt 
intend to uphold this complaint as I didnt think the advice Frenkel Topping provided in 2004 
was unsuitable. The full reasoning is copied below and forms part of this decision.
Frenkel Topping Limited agreed with my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with 
my provisional decision. They made the following points:
- They dont accept that it couldnt be foreseen that the premiums could increase by 
500% at the outset.
- They didnt cancel the policy immediately after the premium increased, and they 
didnt cancel it because they couldnt afford the premium, but rather they were 
concerned they may not be able to afford it in the future.
- The do not recall saying they didnt have an IHT liability in 2019 and may still have 
one but they wont be taking out another policy based on the experience.
- Having a low cost premium at the time the policy was sold wasnt the priority  it was 
providing cover that would be affordable in the future.
- If they had been given all the information they wouldnt have taken out the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Frenkel Topping nor Mr and Mrs W have provided any additional evidence to 
consider, so it follows that my findings remain the same as set out in my provisional 
decision. I repeat these below but beforehand will address Mr and Mrs Ws comments.
I note that they didnt cancel their policy because they couldnt afford the premium, and I 
referred to them being uncomfortable with future premiums in my provisional decision. I 
reached my decision on the understanding that the premium of around £78 per month wasnt 
unaffordable for them in 2019.
Ive addressed in the provisional decision findings, copied below, that I didnt think it would 
be reasonable for Frenkel Topping to have predicted the premium would increase by 500% 
by the second review. I understand that Mr and Mrs W feel they should have been told and 
they have drawn comparisons to being told about future pension performance, but when the 
policy was sold, the economic climate was very different. And whilst wed expect 
investments and pension illustrations to be given, this was a life insurance policy. Frenkel 
Topping explained that the premium would stay the same for ten years and the illustration 
provided explained the premium would likely need to be increased when the policy was 
reviewed  which is what happened. 
The increase in premiums still meant the policy was a lot cheaper than the alternative and 
provided almost double the cover. Ive also explained, below, that the cover they had 
allowed for flexibility to reduce the sum assured and therefore not experiencing such an 
increase in premium. So, Im not persuaded that this made the policy Frenkel Topping sold 
them unsuitable in these circumstances.
I understand that having a low cost policy wasnt the priority at the time of the advice. The 
priority was to provide cover for their potential IHT liability  Ive explained why, below, I 
believe this particular policy did this and why I dont think they wouldve taken the alternative 
which cost almost eight times more at the outset.
Mr and Mrs W say they dont recall saying they no longer have an IHT liability. This was 
something that Mr W mentioned during a phone call with our Investigator  he said he 
believes the allowances may cover their liability now. But I dont think this is relevant here as 
this decision is whether the advice they received in 2004 was suitable. And for the reasons 
Ive listed below, which are the same as those in my provisional decision, I think that it was.
Findings from my provisional decision
My role here is to look at the advice given to Mr and Mrs W in 2004 and decide whether it 
was suitable based on their circumstances at the time. I can see that they were looking for 
protection to cover a potential IHT liability. Looking at the assets they had at the time, the 
liability was around £146,000. Frenkel Topping recommended them a policy that would pay 
out over £278,000 if theyd passed away. This was almost double the cover they needed, 
however I can see that the policy they were offered came with a minimum premium level of 
£15 per month which meant that £278,000 was the minimum amount of cover they could 
have with this provider at the time.
I can see that the policy was set up on a maximum basis  this means it is designed to 
provide the highest level of cover for the lowest premium. And I think its clear thats what 
this policy did. Frenkel Topping said in its advice letter in 2004 that the policy being on a maximum protection basis ensures that your premiums will be maintained at a constant 
level for at least the first 10 years of the policy. After this point, a review will be undertaken 
and your premium levels and/or sum assured may be amended in line with your current ages 
and current protection market conditions. The letter goes on to explain that the premium of 
£15 is a minimum premium and will provide more cover than required. It also says that the 
plan isnt designed to produce any significant surrender value.
When looking at protection to cover potential IHT liabilities its important to consider the 
circumstances at the time. For example, if the potential liability is high and is unlikely to 
change in the future wed expect advisors to think about protection policies that could last 
over a long term period without the premium increasing too much. These are often set up on 
a standard or minimum protection basis and dependent on what customers can afford. And 
sometimes wed expect advisors to consider non reviewable policies. But these types of 
policies are almost always more expensive than those set up on a maximum basis. I can see 
that was the case here. A policy providing less cover (£146,000) would have cost Mr and 
Mrs W £119.99 per month if it were to be set up on a standard basis.
In this particular case, Frenkel Topping needed to provide advice that was suitable to cover 
Mr and Mrs Ws potential IHT liability in 2004. I think that it did this. It provided a policy at a 
low cost that provided more cover than needed. This wouldve given Mr and Mrs W the 
scope to reduce their sum assured and still be covered for their potential liability in the future 
without significantly increasing their premiums. And from the notes Frenkel Topping made at 
the time of the advice, it appears that they had a relationship with Mr and Mrs W and 
intended to regularly provide additional advice should their circumstances change. I dont 
think, for Mr and Mrs W, having this policy in place was unsuitable. 
Its important to note that whilst policies set up on a maximum basis are expected to have 
future premium increases, the level of increase is hard for advisors to predict. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs W believe that theyd have never taken the policy if theyd been told at the outset 
their premiums could increase 500%. But I dont think it would be reasonable for Frenkel 
Topping, in 2004 when the economic climate was so different, to have predicted that level of 
premium increase. Its also important to note that Mr and Mrs Ws policy was increased to 
£78 per month just before they cancelled it in 2019. I find it hard to accept that had they 
been offered a policy that was £119 in 2004 they wouldve accepted this for a lesser amount 
of cover and maintained that policy throughout when they felt £78 was unreasonable for 
higher cover.
I understand that the premium increases have meant Mr and Mrs W felt uncomfortable 
maintaining their policy, because they couldnt predict what would happen in the future. But 
the policy, whilst in force, continued to provide the level of cover they required for less than 
the alternative option would have. And having life cover in place isnt unsuitable to ensure 
that any IHT liability can be paid and the beneficiary, in this case Mr and Mrs Ws daughter, 
could inherit her parents assets with the tax being paid for by the policy rather than the 
estate. I can see Frenkel Topping advised Mr and Mrs W to write the policy in trust for their 
daughter to ensure that it fell outside the estate, which is what Id expect if set up to cover 
any potential IHT liability. So, I dont think Frenkel Topping gave unsuitable advice in 2004.
Mr and Mrs W have provided details of their situation over the years, but Im only looking at 
whether the advice they received in 2004 was suitable. And, for the reasons Ive explained I 
think it is based on their circumstances. They were sold low cost cover which more than 
covered their IHT need  as it was the minimum amount available  and this couldve 
provided flexibility to reduce the sum assured rather than pay a higher premium. Ive noted 
that they no longer require this cover, but I cant agree that Frenkel Topping should repay 
them their premiums. They have had the benefit of life cover throughout and the policy met 
their needs at the time they received the advice.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman