DRN-4419536
The complaint
Mrs A & Mr L complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mrs A & Mr L are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around December 2017, Mrs A & Mr L were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mrs A & Mr L decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed.
In September 2019, the CMC made a claim on Mrs A & Mr Ls behalf under section 75 of the 
Act to Shawbrook. The CMC said that P had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mrs A & Mr L to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayment costs.
The solar panels would improve the properties council tax banding. 
No interest would be charged on the loan.
No information was given about the cooling off period. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs A & Mr L or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs A & Mr L and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
Mrs A and Mr L (through the CMC) didnt agree with the investigators view explaining that 
Mrs A & Mr L had been told the system would pay for itself within the loan term, but the CMC 
says it will take over 25 years for the panels to pay for themselves. They are therefore not 
happy with the service received and the workmanship provided. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 10 October 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding 
the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached a final decision. Neither Shawbrook nor Mrs A and Mr L made any 
further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs A & Mr L paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs A & Mr L could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs A & 
Mr L and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mrs A & Mr L say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The cost of the system 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Mrs A & Mr L have said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,925 and they 
were led to believe there would be no interest charged on the loan. 
On balance Im satisfied that Mrs A & Mr L were told that the cost of the system was £8,925. 
The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out 
that the cash price of the system was £8,925. The total amount of credit is £8,825 (after 
deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£16,949.80.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £94.29. But I note Mrs 
A & Mr L deferred their payments for a few months which is reflected in their credit 
agreement and their monthly payment is also marginally different at £93.61  but I dont think 
these differences make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,925, it 
would cost Mrs A & Mr L more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest-
bearing loan. 
Self-funding 
Mrs A & Mr L have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs A & Mr L could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs A & Mr L could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £122.01, which results in an average monthly income of £10.16. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs A & Mr L could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £221.06 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mrs A & Mr L the combined income and savings in year one is 
shown as £740.80 (which results in a monthly benefit of £61.73). This is shown in a table 
titled Putting it all together.
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £94.29 (which is £1,131.48). As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments 
and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs A & Mr L entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £94.29. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £94.29, to give an average difference between 
the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs A & Mr L could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. The table does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the 
consumers werent told that the FIT payment would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully 
thought about the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did 
form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I 
dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would 
be covered by the FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs A & Mr L that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs A & Mr L were told by P that the system would be self-funding 
over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 15 the overall benefits that Mrs A & 
Mr L could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs A & Mr L that the system would pay for 
itself by year 15, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs A & Mr L. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 1893.08 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs A & Mr Ls FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2024.88 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think explain why they havent been 
receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar panels. Since 
actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the savings achieved 
through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs A & Mr L couldve expected to 
receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as 
high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs A & Mr L entered into the contract.
Ive also gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. 
A sufficient inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Considering that I havent 
found any misrepresentation and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions used by P 
were reasonable, I think a court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship 
under section 140.
I understand Mrs A & Mr L were informed that having solar panels may lead to a change in 
their council tax banding. But the salesperson later apologised and explained that the 
system would lead to an improvement in the properties EPC rating. It doesnt seem like Mrs 
A & Mr L took any further action at this time and I think its unlikely that this was the main 
reason they purchased the system. So, while it looks like P may have not given clear 
information regarding this matter  I can see it also apologised for the error, and then 
appears to have provided the correct information. So, I dont think Shawbrook needs to do 
anything about this now. 
Mrs A & Mr L have also mentioned that theyre not happy with the workmanship from P in 
response to our investigators view of the complaint. They havent provided any details about 
what they mean by workmanship, and it doesnt look as though theyve complained about 
this before. As noted above, the system appears to be overperforming in terms of power generation which indicates it isnt faulty and working as it was intended. So, I also dont think 
Shawbrook needs to do anything further about this issue at this stage.  
Mrs A & Mr L have complained they werent given any information about their cooling off 
period. But their credit agreement and quote both set out their cancellation rights. The quote 
also had a cancellation form. I also havent seen any evidence that they wanted to or tried to 
cancel  so this issue doesnt alter my view of the complaint.  
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs A & Mr L 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly when declining 
the claim.
Neither Shawbrook nor Mrs A & Mr L have made any additional comments in response to 
my provisional decision. So, in the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no 
reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional decision. 
Having again carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs A & Mr L 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So overall, Im satisfied that Shawbrook did not act unreasonably or unfairly when 
declining the claim and I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman