DRN-4331297
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc would not allow her to transfer a 
conditional sale agreement to another person. 
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs G was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander. The agreement was for £5,140 over five years; with one monthly payment of 
£85.47 followed by 59 monthly repayments of £85.67. At the time, the car was more than 
eight years old, and had travelled 77,269 miles. 
 
Mrs G said that the car was always intended for her son. She said he was unlikely to obtain 
finance in his own name due to his personal circumstances at the time. She said she made it 
clear to the supplying dealer that the car would be his. She said the dealer told her it would 
be more straightforward for her to enter into the agreement in her own name, rather than, for 
example, her acting as a guarantor. 
 
She said the dealer advised her to register the car in her own name, and that she could 
change it at a later date to her sons name. She did this shortly after her son obtained the 
car. She said that in January 2023, Santander wrote to her advising her that theyd been 
made aware of the change of keeper by DVLA, and that she needed to settle the agreement 
in full if she had sold or transferred the car. 
 
Shes unhappy that Santander insist that she must settle the agreement in full. She said 
shes explained to them that she had not sold the car. She says the only thing that has 
transferred is the name and address on the V5 document. She said it was made clear to the 
dealer during the sales process that the car would be with her son and used by him, and that 
he lived 300 miles away from her. She said shes made that clear throughout and feels that 
the dealer, as Santanders agent, has deprived her of the opportunity to deal with the 
situation properly by pursuing other options, such as acting as a guarantor for her son. 
 
She would like Santander to transfer the agreement into her sons name, at the same rate of 
interest. Or shed like them to honour the original terms shed made in good faith, with the 
car remaining with her son, and with no threats of repossession as long as the payments are 
made. She said Santander had agreed that the car can be registered at her home address, 
in her son's name. 
 
She also confirmed that her son wishes to remain in the car, so termination of the agreement 
and returning the car is not an option they would consider. 
 
Santander said that term 4.4 of the terms and conditions Mrs G had agreed to said that she 
would keep the goods in her possession and under her control and would not sell or transfer 
the goods to anyone. They said it was possible to transfer the registered keeper to her son, 
but only if he lived at the same address. And because this was not the case, they said the 
account needed to be settled. 
 
They also said the dealer confirmed Mrs Gs son had collected the car, but they said it 
denied it knew anything about her intention to change the registered keeper with DVLA. 
 
Our investigator wrote to Santander and explained that she was likely to reach the view that  
the agreement was likely misrepresented to Mrs G and that she was likely to recommend the 
agreement be ended. She explained to Santander that this option didnt suit Mrs G, and 
asked them if they would consider either transferring the credit agreement to her son's name 
or allow the V5 to be changed to her son's name. 
 
Santander said that they could not transfer the existing agreement to Mrs Gs son, but they 
could consider a new finance agreement, that would be subject to a credit search. They also 
said the V5 document has to match the agreement holders name, so would not be willing to 
change the name on the V5, especially as they do not live at the same address. 
 
Our investigator considered whether or not there had been a misrepresentation, and 
concluded there hadnt. She said that the dealer had said that the V5 could be transferred to 
Mrs Gs son, but there was nothing to show the dealer informed Mrs G that a change of 
ownership would be in breach of the finance agreement.  
 
So she was satisfied that there wasnt enough information to show that there had been 
a false statement of fact that induced Mrs G into taking out the agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs G was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.  
 
The information that Mrs G gave to the dealer was clear  in an email sent the day before 
her son was collecting the car she said: I forgot to say earlier, you know this finance is in my 
name but the car is for my son, please can you make receipts/documents out to him, v5 
also. He will be the owner and keeper. He's sorted insurance also. 
So she made her intentions clear during the sales process.  
 
But this information was given after she had signed and returned the conditional sale 
agreement and related paperwork to the dealer. This is relevant because section 56 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making the dealer the agent of Santander during 
the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs G entering into the finance agreement.  
 
This means that Santander are responsible only for information given by the dealer before 
the agreement was entered into. 
 
Mrs G has supplied a copy of the email chain she had with the dealer. This shows she made 
the statement to the dealer about the car being for her son a few hours after shed returned 
the signed conditional sale agreement and associated papers.  
Theres no evidence to suggest Mrs Gs request was contradicted or challenged by the 
dealer. Indeed, the dealer acknowledged receipt of this email, and responded asking for 
insurance documentation. But that doesnt mean that Santander are responsible for what the 
dealer said or didnt say at that point. Thats because the information was never passed onto 
them, and as Ive said above, the statement was made by Mrs G after she signed the 
agreement, so the statement didnt form part of the antecedent negotiations. 
 
Ive gone on to consider whether or not the dealer made a false statement of fact. I cant see 
that they did. They confirmed that Mrs G could transfer the V5 to her son  that is true, and 
that is what she did. 
 
Mrs G entered into the conditional sale agreement  this is a legally binding contract. She 
knowingly made that application, and signed the agreement, on the basis that her son wasnt 
likely to obtain credit. Under that contract Santander owned the car and allowed Mrs G to 
use it under the terms of the agreement. The car wouldnt belong to her until the agreement 
was fully settled. So its normal, and reasonable, for businesses like Santander to include 
specific terms that protect their asset, the car. 
 
In this case term 4.4 states You will keep the goods in your possession and under your 
control and will not sell, transfer, mortgage, lend or give the goods to anyone.  
 
Im satisfied that it is reasonable for Santander to rely on that term as they are the legal 
owner of the car. 
 
I think its worth pointing out that even if I was to uphold Mrs Gs complaint, the remedy she 
is seeking is not available to her. I say this as if this was the case, I wouldnt direct 
Santander to change the title of the agreement to her sons name.
This agreement is between Mrs G and Santander and cant simply be transferred  it would 
require an application for a new agreement to be made by her son, and Santander would be 
required to conduct the necessary credit and affordability checks. So there is no guarantee 
that the credit would be granted. And Santander would not have to offer the same interest 
rate as the original agreement due to the changes in the economy and market since the 
agreement was entered into. 
 
Im satisfied that Santander has acted reasonably and in line with the terms of the 
agreement that Mrs G entered into. So I wont be asking them to anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint about Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman