DRN-2760819
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society wouldnt set up a password which would 
have to be given before his account could be discussed over the phone.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr F informed Nationwide that he was concerned about possible 
fraudulent activity on his accounts and asked Nationwide to set up a password which would 
need to be given before his accounts could be discussed on the phone. Nationwide 
explained to Mr F that this wasnt a service that they offered. Mr F wasnt happy about this, 
so he made a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Fs complaint, but they confirmed that this wasnt a service that they 
offered and noted that they felt that the verification processes they already had in place were 
secure. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Nationwide 
werent obliged to offer the service that Mr F was requesting, so they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Fs concerns regarding the security of his accounts with Nationwide, but 
Im not convinced that it follows from these concerns that its unreasonable or unfair for 
Nationwide to decline to put into place a non-standard security measure, above and beyond 
the security measures they already have in place.
Like all banks and building societies, Nationwide have an obligation to ensure that they have 
processes and systems in place to verify that the person that they are speaking with is 
authorised to be able to access, discuss, and provide instructions for a particular account. 
Im satisfied that Nationwide have such processes and systems in place, and it wouldnt be 
within the remit of this service to instruct Nationwide to make amendments to the methods or 
processes that they employ in this regard.
What this service would be able to consider would be whether there had been any instances 
where Nationwides application of these processes and systems had led to any instance of 
financial loss or customer detriment, such that Nationwide should reasonably be instructed 
to take corrective action. But in this instance there has been no financial loss, and while I 
can appreciate Mr Fs frustration that Nationwide are unwilling to install the additional layer 
of security hes requested, I cant fairly say that there has been customer detriment, because 
I cant reasonably say that Nationwide have any obligation to meet Mr Fs request here, as I 
have previously explained.
Mr F has questioned whether Nationwides refusal to install a password on his account 
amounts to Nationwide not making a reasonable adjustment to make their services 
accessible. But its difficult to see how, by declining to add an extra layer of security, 
Nationwide could be considered as making their service less accessible here, especially as 
the password would be in addition to, and not in replacement of, the existing security 
measures that Nationwide already have in place.
And, if it is the case that Mr F was requesting that a password be put in place as a 
replacement to Nationwides existing customer verification measures, such that the 
password would be all that was required to be given to gain access to the account, then its 
clear that this would make Mr Fs account considerably less secure than it already is and it 
follows from this that I would consider it entirely appropriate that Nationwide should decline 
this request under these circumstances. 
All of which means that its difficult for me to conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Nationwide to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that 
Mr F was wanting, but I hope that he can understand, given everything I have explained 
above, why I have made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman