DRN-3936048
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly lent 
to him.
What happened
Mr W opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in September 2012 with an initial credit 
limit of £400. His credit limit was increased five times over the course of the agreement.
 
Mr W says that Barclaycard acted irresponsibly by providing him with the credit card and 
when it increased his limit. He says if Barclaycard had done adequate checks on his 
situation it would have seen that he wouldnt be able to repay his balance in a reasonable 
length of time. 
Barclaycard initially said it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr W and that it did all the necessary 
checks before it lent to Mr W  and when it increased his credit limit. However, our 
investigator thought that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld from the point at which Mr Ws 
credit limit was increased above £1,600. Our investigator considered Barclaycard ought to 
pay back the interest Mr W had paid on balances above that amount and any fees he 
incurred. Our investigator also said that once Mr W had cleared his outstanding balance, any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file after July 2015 in relation to the account 
should be removed.
Barclaycard accepted the investigators view but pointed out that the default Mr W incurred 
on his account in 2017 would be removed from his credit file automatically in early March 
2023  in less than a month from now. Barclaycard also provided figures to show that the 
compensation it would be directed to pay would not result in Mr Ws account being cleared.
Our investigator agreed with Barclaycards approach and explained why they thought it was 
not necessary to direct the adjustment of his credit file. 
Mr W did not formally accept the decision or the directed compensation. He thought his 
complaint ought to have been upheld from the point his account was opened. As Mr W did 
not agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ws complaint.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ws income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Barclaycard should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include 
things like understanding Mr Ws income, the total amount Mr W borrowed, and the length of 
time Mr W had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
As I have explained, Barclaycard has already accepted that, based on this services findings, 
it shouldnt have increased Mr Ws credit limit from £1,600. This was set out clearly in the 
investigators view and I see no reason to set it out in full here given none of the parties have 
suggested this is not the fair outcome. I also agree with the investigators view. 
I have looked again at the earlier lending to see whether I think Barclaycard acted fairly in 
those lending decisions  specifically the original decision to lend to Mr W; the increase in 
credit limit from £400 to £800 in April 2013; and the increase from £800 to £1,600 in in July 
2014.
There isnt complete data available about these lending decisions. Thats not unusual given 
the time which has passed since then. Barclaycard said that at the time Mr W applied for his 
credit card on 22 September 2012 checks showed that he didnt have any other debt and he 
didnt have any other credit cards. However, Barclaycards own checks showed that Mr W 
did have a debit balance elsewhere of around £1,379 or £1,355 (there are two sets of data). 
Mr W has been able to supply his bank statements from that time, so I have compared those 
to Barclaycards information.  Mr Ws bank statements from that time show that he was 
overdrawn on his current account by £1,355 shortly before his application. I note that the 
same set of bank statements show that Mr W had taken a payday loan in early July, but 
there is no evidence to suggest that it hadnt been paid back by the time of his application or 
that Mr W struggled to repay it.
 
So I have worked on the basis that Barclaycard would have seen from its checks that Mr W 
had £1,355 of debt and a recently repaid short term loan. Ive considered whether this ought 
to have been enough for Barclaycard to do further checks, but I dont think it was. 
Mr Ws bank account was a graduate account which would have been converted from a 
student account when he completed higher education. It is very common for students (even 
in 2012) to leave university with some debt. Mr W stated at the time of application he had an 
income of almost £15,000 which is supported by evidence from his bank statements. This 
means the overdraft equated to less than 10% of his gross income. On balance, I dont think 
Barclaycard needed to do any more checks given the information it saw and the relatively 
low limit provided to Mr W on account opening. 
About six months later, Barclaycard increased Mr Ws credit limit to £800. Barclaycard says 
it did the same checks, but it didnt provide a copy of those. Ive looked at Mr Ws credit card 
statements from the point of the account opening and hed been managing his account well, 
making payments on time. His financial circumstances, looking at his bank statements, had 
not changed for the worse. Mr W had opened a new bank account with Barclays and it was 
consistently in credit. I can see that he made a single payment to a short-term loan provider in the three months prior to the increase, which would have shown up on the checks 
Barclaycard did, but he didnt take out any new loans. His graduate bank account remained 
dormant with the overdrawn balance incurring a small amount of interest. 
 
Again, I think that its likely there was no reason for Barclaycard to consider the lending was 
unaffordable for Mr W on the basis of the information it most likely had. 
In July 2014 Mr Ws credit limit was increased to £1,600. This was double his existing limit 
and four times his original limit. And Mr W had incurred a late penalty and an overlimit fee on 
his credit card in January 2014. So, I think it would have been reasonable for Barclaycard to 
do more checks at this point. 
The types of checks businesses should complete isnt prescriptive. I think it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate for Barclaycard to have checked Mr Ws income and 
expenditure. And, of course, I cant know with any certainty what Barclaycard would have 
seen if it had done those checks eight or so years ago.  Again, I have looked at Mr Ws bank 
statements to get a picture of his income and expenditure at the time. Mr Ws graduate 
account was active again. It appeared that he had paid a considerable sum off his overdraft, 
although in the month or so prior to his increase the overdraft creeps up to a similar amount 
as that seen at account opening. I can see there are some larger payments to short-term 
loan providers, but no receipts from loans. Mr Ws Barclays account is in credit for the vast 
majority of the three month period leading up to the credit limit increase. His income is 
greater than his essential outgoings.
So, even if Barclaycard had asked Mr W about his income and expenditure, I dont think it 
would have reason to conclude that a credit limit of £1,600 would have been unaffordable for 
Mr W, so I only uphold Mr Ws complaint from July 2015 when his limit was increased to 
£4,800.
In summary, I think Barclaycard didnt act fairly when it increased Mr Ws credit limit above 
£1,600 because it didnt make appropriate and proportionate checks to ensure he could 
repay it sustainably. I think Mr W lost out as a result.
Putting things right
As I have explained before, Barclaycard has already accepted it shouldnt have increased Mr 
Ws credit limit beyond £1,600 and it has agreed to pay compensation in line with our usual 
redress in such cases. As I dont think Barclaycard should have increased Mr Ws credit limit 
from £1,600 I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances 
which exceeded that limit. However, Mr W has had the benefit of all the money he spent on 
the account so I think he should pay this back. Therefore, I direct Barclaycard to:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1,600.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr W along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. I understand that this will not be the case.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,600, Barclaycard 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr W for the remaining amount.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
Our investigator originally said that once Mr W had cleared the outstanding balance on his 
account to below £1,600, Barclaycard should remove any negative information about the 
account from Mr Ws credit file. Barclaycard explained that Mr W had made no payments on 
the account since he defaulted in March 2017. Even if Mr W paid back what he owed right 
now, Barclaycard wouldnt have time to remove the information from his credit file before it 
was automatically removed in March 2023  only a few weeks from now. For this reason, I 
do not direct any amendment to Mr Ws credit file.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to 
pay compensation as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman