DRN-2333547
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the advice she received from Usay Business Limited trading as Usay 
Compare.
Miss L brings her complaint through a third-party representative, but for simplicity, Ill refer to 
all submissions as being made by her personally.
What happened
Miss L was contacted by Usay towards the end of 2014 to discuss her private medical 
insurance renewal. During the initial conversation, Miss L explained that she was undergoing 
treatment for a problem with her shoulder and so it was agreed that Usay would call her 
back to discuss a potential switch once this was over. A few weeks later, she got back in 
touch with Usay and agreed to change insurers. This call was an advised sale. I should also 
note that Miss L is a vulnerable consumer.  
Miss L said Usay gave her bad advice which ultimately led to her losing the comprehensive 
cover she enjoyed with her existing insurer. She explained that she was misled because 
Usay told her that it could find her a cheaper policy with the same level of cover. Miss L said 
she was led to believe her pre-existing medical conditions would be covered by the new 
insurer by transferring her medical history. Miss L also said that Usay didnt fully explore her 
extensive medical history and so questioned how it was able to give her suitable advice to 
switch insurers.   
Miss L said that Usay initially told her it would not be in her interest to switch to a moratorium 
policy and yet this is exactly what happened.  
Usay stood by the advice it gave and said that the policy was suitable. It highlighted that by 
switching insurers it saved her £23 per month and that this was a good deal. Usay 
recognised at first it didnt want to switch her to a moratorium policy, but this changed when 
Miss L shared more about her medical history. Usay said it tailored its advice to better suit 
her needs. Usay also refuted that Miss L was vulnerable at the time it sold her the policy.  
Our investigator upheld Miss Ls complaint. He said that Usays actions concerned him 
because it was unable to see how its advice had severely impacted Miss L. He said that by 
switching her to the new insurer, she was left paying for a policy that offered her little benefit. 
He also acknowledged that because the new policy had excluded Miss Ls pre-existing 
medical conditions, she sought treatment through the NHS. And, was subjected to extensive 
wait times. Our investigator also said Usay didnt do enough to investigate her medical 
history and so found the advice given was unsuitable. He recommended Usay pay Miss L 
£4,500 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. 
Both Miss L and Usay disagreed with our investigators view. Miss L said the compensation 
was not enough. She said that shes had to self-fund some treatment or wait to be treated by 
the NHS because the new insurer would not offer her cover. Miss L said that, overall, her 
health has suffered as a result of the switch. She no longer has any private medical 
insurance because after losing the benefits of her original policy, shes been unable to find a 
policy that offers the same level of cover for all her pre-existing medical conditions at a cost 
thats not prohibitively expensive.
Usay initially accepted our recommendation for compensation but on a non-prejudicial basis. 
But because Miss L rejected our investigators view, it subsequently withdrew the offer. It 
also made several arguments rejecting our investigators findings. I wont list each point 
here, rather, Ill summarise the main arguments below, Usay said;
its unhappy that we appear to be questioning its integrity and decision-making on 
this case. It referenced its overall customer satisfaction scores and said that its low 
ombudsman referral rates are an indicator that it does the right thing by its 
customers;
it tailored its advice by switching Miss L to a moratorium policy because she recently 
had treatment on her shoulder at the time of sale. It said that the moratorium 
underwriting gave her the opportunity to not to have a permanent exclusion for this 
placed on the new policy;
it should not be held responsible for Miss L losing the cover she had previously for 
her pre-existing medical conditions. It said that it can only act on the information she 
shared about her medical history;
its advice has saved Miss L around £10,000. It said that because her previous 
insurer was a community-based scheme, had she stayed with it, her premiums would 
have risen significantly and would have likely become unaffordable. It said that even 
if we consider the advice it gave was unsuitable at the time, then we should bear this 
in mind;
Miss Ls pre-existing medical conditions are mainly chronic and therefore had limited 
claiming potential  meaning it would have been difficult for her to secure cover with 
the previous insurer for related problems and;
its advice was suitable and that it now objects to the amount of compensation 
recommended by our investigator. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all arguments, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint. I say 
this because I believe the advice given by Usay was unsuitable and I recognise the severe 
impact this has had on Miss L. Im also satisfied that the £4,500 compensation for the trouble 
and upset this caused is fair. Ill explain why.
Miss L enjoyed extensive and comprehensive cover with her previous insurer. Ive reviewed 
the policy and Im satisfied this was the case. Miss L is a vulnerable consumer because of 
the number of pre-existing medical conditions she suffers with, including myalgic 
encephalomyelitis (ME), fibromyalgia, depression, bels palsy, back and neck pain and 
inflammatory arthritis. I accept Usays arguments that some of these conditions are chronic 
and so there would have been limited potential to claim for related conditions on the original 
policy. But I should make clear that she would have been covered for acute flair ups for 
some of her pre-existing medical conditions. And so, I can appreciate Miss Ls strength of feeling that shes lost out here as its unlikely that she would have ever been able to meet 
the new insurers moratorium criteria and stay symptom or problem free for two years.  
Having listened to the sales call I must say that Id have expected Usay do more than it did 
to better understand Miss Ls medical history. I say that because this was an advised sale, 
and therefore it was Usays responsibility to ensure that the product it recommended was 
suitable for Miss Ls demands and needs. 
There wasnt much of discussion about Miss Ls medial history. The advisor was aware 
shed recently had treatment on her shoulder and so he explained this would not be covered 
by the new policy. But when he asked about her other medical conditions, Miss L mentioned 
there were several visits to her doctor, and a long stay in hospital, although she couldnt 
recall all the information at that moment. I think at this point, Usay should have identified 
Miss L was potentially vulnerable because it ought to have been clear that her medical 
history was complex. I think Usay should have recognised that Miss L may have needed 
some help to go through this in a bit more detail and it should therefore have given this 
aspect of the conversation more thought.
In addition to her shoulder problems that required cortisone injections, she mentioned shed 
been hospitalised for a serious back problem which required surgery and she was still taking 
pain relief and her issues with bels palsy. Miss L followed on from this by saying shed had 
quite a bit of treatment for several health issues in the past. I think it reasonable to suggest 
that at this point, Usay should have realised it needed to ask more questions to better 
understand Miss Ls medial history so it could make appropriate suggestions about whether 
she should switch insurers. 
Usay initially said it would not have been in Miss Ls interest to switch insurers on 
moratorium basis and I agreed with that advice. I say that because switching to a 
moratorium policy would have meant Miss L would have lost cover for many of her pre-
existing medical conditions that were covered by her existing insurer. Also, any minor 
treatments she chose to have through her GP would potentially reset the moratorium clock. 
Miss L had been with her insurer for several years and so enjoyed comprehensive cover. 
However, Usay went against the advice it initially gave and decided to switch her to a new 
policy on a moratorium basis. And Im satisfied this product was unsuitable for her demands 
and needs. 
I considered the product to be unsuitable because she lost all the previous cover she 
enjoyed with her existing insurer. And I dont think Usay made this clear during the call. I 
think Usay gave misleading advice about transferring her medical history to the new insurer 
and that she would enjoy exactly the same level of cover as soon as the switch took place. 
I found some of the techniques it used to sell the new policy pressured. 
Usay repeatedly told Miss L that it could save her money immediately if she switched to the 
new insurer. It continually said things like I definitely want to switch you and I want to save 
you money right now which felt like there was a decision that needed to be made 
immediately. There wasnt much of an opportunity for Miss L to speak during the call. The 
advisor continually talked over her and didnt appear to listen or take on board what was at 
stake. Usay said it saved Miss L around £20 per month by making the switch  but I think the 
level of cover she lost was worth significantly more. And, had things been made clearer, I 
think Miss L would not have agreed to leave her existing insurer. 
Miss L attempted to move back to her original insurer when she realised how much cover 
shed lost. She was offered a policy but had lost cover for her pre-existing medical 
conditions. During the time Miss L was with the new insurer there were several conditions 
where she had to either self-fund her treatment, or experience significant delays waiting to be treated by the NHS because those conditions were not covered. 
Miss L self-funded some counselling sessions for her depression, whilst waiting for treatment 
on the NHS as this wasnt covered by her new policy. There were other medical problems 
where she sought treatment on the NHS because her new policy would not offer her cover. 
Ive listed some here for contextual purposes; a cardiologist referral to discuss an ECG, a 
gastroenterologist, blood tests related to her fainting episodes, X-rays due to elbow 
problems, an occupational therapist, neurologist, CT and MRI scans related to an acute flare 
up of her bels palsy.  
Theres no guarantee that all those conditions would be covered by the original policy. But 
Im satisfied some of them would have been. Thats why I say the money she saved on her 
monthly premium didnt compare to the level of cover she lost. Particularly because Miss L 
had to wait extensively to be seen through the NHS. And so, she lost out by switching as she 
expected to have the appropriate level of cover in place. 
Usays obligation to Miss L was that it must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of 
it he product it recommended so that she could rely on its judgement. Im not satisfied it did 
this here for all the reasons Ive explained. I also considered the information it recorded for 
Miss L demands and needs. I should say the information it recorded was sparse. It simply 
said it needed to change her insurer. I think the reason for the limited information was simply 
because it didnt complete the necessary checks that were relevant to better understand her 
personal circumstances. 
Usay has made arguments about the money Miss L saved by switching insurers. Its given 
calculations for her anticipated monthly premiums based on whether shed stayed with her 
original insurer. Usays argument is that the price of her existing policy would have become 
unaffordable because the premium would have increased significantly over the years. I 
should say though thats not relevant to this complaint because Im considering the advice it 
gave Miss L at the time it sold her the new policy. And so, any argument that theorises 
whether the existing policy were to become unaffordable, based on hindsight, isnt relevant 
or helpful here. 
Im satisfied Usay hasnt treated Miss L fairly for the reasons Ive explained. She should 
have been able to rely on the advice given during the call, however, the advice was 
unsuitable because it didnt fulfil its obligations under ICOBS. Usay didnt do enough to fully 
understand Miss Ls medical history and so making misleading guarantees about the new 
policy offering the same level of cover wasnt fair in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint. Its not an exact science when it comes to deciding how much compensation 
should be awarded. But Im satisfied Miss Ls trouble and upset, along with her loss of 
expectation is severe and its for those reasons I think the £4,500 recommended by our 
investigator is fair.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Usay Business Limited trading as Usay 
Compare must now pay Miss L £4,500 for the overall trouble and upset it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman