DRN-2688883
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy with the compensation Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) offered for its delay 
and lack of communication when dealing with her buildings claim following an escape of 
water.
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
There was an avoidable delay of about a month drying out Ms Ss front room.
Once drying was completed, there was a further delay of almost six months before 
repair work started. Aviva doesnt have an explanation for the delay.
During that time, Ms S chased progress with Avivas contractor without response. 
Aviva acknowledged that no one took ownership.
After repairs, Ms S reported a further leak. The home emergency engineer said it 
was from a radiator pipe which had been damaged when the floor was replaced as 
part of the repairs. Aviva didnt think it was the primary cause, but it couldnt be sure. 
The specialist report confirms that the flooring was laid without the correct expansion 
gaps, and the leak happened very soon after it replaced the flooring, so Aviva treated 
the claim as a continuation of the original claim. 
Aviva noted in its records that it was responsible for around 14 months of delays and 
that compensation was warranted. The evidence indicates delays of more than two 
years. While some of the delays couldnt be helped, most were avoidable. Aviva said 
the repairs couldve been done sooner if Ms S accepted the cash settlement and 
arranged the work herself. But she could reasonably expect Aviva to do the work 
under the terms of her policy, so I dont think its fair to suggest she contributed to the 
delays.
Overall, its clear that Ms Ss home was in a state of disrepair for around three years, 
the majority of which was due to Avivas delays, poor communication and failure to 
lay the flooring correctly. If it had dried out her home and laid the floor correctly and 
promptly, the extended works couldve been avoided. Aviva offered £900 
compensation, but Im satisfied that an additional £900 (£1,800 in total) is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited must:
pay Ms S compensation of £1,800, (or an additional £900 if it has already paid its 
original offer of £900), by way of apology for the delays and lack of communication 
which resulted in the repairs taking so long to complete.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman