DRN-4065267
The complaint
Mrs S, through her representative, complains that Evolution Insurance Company Limited 
unfairly declined a claim under her Absence of Easement indemnity policy. 
Where I refer to Evolution, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for 
which it takes responsibility. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only 
summarise the key events here.
In 2022, Mrs S made a claim on her policy in relation to the development of a building 
adjacent to the block of flats in which she resides. The development changes the lay-out of 
open space between the two buildings, which Mrs S says interferes with the access to her 
property and her ability to park.
Mrs S says she previously benefited from being able to temporarily park outside her block for 
means of loading / unloading her car, or for deliveries. In addition, there was sufficient space 
for cars to turn around. But this is no longer the case since the development of the new 
building. The development also obstructs the basement ventilation shafts, affecting the use 
of the basement car park.
Evolution declined the claim, for two reasons:
1. Mrs S failed to give Evolution immediate notice of the circumstances giving rise to 
the claim, as required by the policy. It says she was aware of the issues in dispute 
since at least April 2020 but didnt submit her claim until two years later.
2. Mrs S hasnt suffered a loss as defined by the policy as shes still able to access the 
front of her property by foot and has vehicular access to the basement car park. The 
policy doesnt cover the right to park outside the property or obstruction to ventilation. 
Mrs S raised a complaint on the basis that shes covered for situations where her means of 
access is prevented, defined by the policy as any road or footpath in useproviding access 
to or egress from the property  which is the case here. She says the claim was notified to 
Evolution as soon as she believed the circumstances likely to give rise to a claim had arisen.
As Evolution maintained its position, Mrs S brought her complaint to our Service. But our 
Investigator didnt uphold it. He was satisfied Evolution had declined the claim in line with the 
policy terms and hadnt acted unfairly. 
Mrs S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Late notification
The terms and conditions of Mrs S policy says:
The insured shall give immediate notice to the Insurer of any circumstances likely to 
give rise to a claim and at the expense of the Insurer shall do and concur in doing 
and permit to be done all things necessary to minimise the loss.
From the information provided, I understand that the residents association for the block of 
flats in which Mrs S resides wrote to the developers in 2020 to express their concerns over 
the planning application. A letter of claim was sent in May 2021 which specifically raised the 
issues relating to parking at the front of the property and the ability to turn vehicles around in 
whats referred to as the turning head. Im aware court proceedings were subsequently 
issued which Mrs S says was to protect the easements to the property. 
Mrs S says a claim was raised to Evolution as the residents association had begun to 
experience difficulty in raising the further funds required to continue with litigation. So it was 
only at that point that she believed the circumstances likely to give rise to the claim had 
arisen.
I dont agree. Whilst Mrs S may not have been aware that shed need to make a claim under 
her indemnity policy until 2022, the policy terms are clear that it isnt when the claim arises 
that it should be reported  rather its when the circumstances that the claim arises from 
occur. Mrs S was aware of those circumstances in 2020, to the extent that a solicitor, on 
behalf of the residents association, had written a letter of claim clearly stating the 
interference with the propertys access.  
As such, Im satisfied that Mrs S didnt notify Evolution immediately  as required by the 
policy. Under the policy terms, its a requirement for cover to be provided that claims are 
notified in accordance with the term set out above. The strict application of the policy term is 
that a breach of the condition means Evolution has the right to refuse the claim. 
But that doesnt necessarily mean cover wouldnt be provided, if the late notification didnt 
prejudice Evolution from dealing with the claim or increase the risk of the loss. This stance is 
taken from the FCAs Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) and the 
Insurance Act 2015, which forms our approach to claims involving late notification.
Evolution says that if it had been notified of the claim earlier, it couldve instructed solicitors 
to engage with the developers to try to ensure that Mrs S rights of access were respected, 
but it wouldnt have gone as far as to engage in litigation and it certainly would not have 
issued proceedings. It says the potential loss suffered by Mrs S wouldnt have justified the 
costs and risks of litigation. 
Whilst I appreciate Evolutions position here, it also says there is no cover under the policy 
for this claim. So Im not persuaded the delay in notifying the claim has prejudiced Evolution 
from taking action when its stance is that it wouldve refused cover. 
On this basis, I dont intend to consider this complaint point further. But if the claim was later 
found to be covered, this policy condition would need to be revisited to determine whether 
the legal action taken has prejudiced Evolutions position or increased the risk of the loss.
Policy coverThe Absence of Easement indemnity policy provides cover for:
Loss sustained in the event of any claimant establishing or attempting to establish 
on or after the commencement date a legal right to prevent the insured and all 
persons authorised by the insured from using the means of access and/or services 
(including access and excavation for necessary inspection maintenance repair and 
renewal of services) in connection with the insured use of the property on the 
grounds that the insured does not have a legal easement to use the same.
The policy has the following definitions:
Means of Access  any road or footpath in use throughout the twelve month period 
immediately preceding the commencement date providing access to or egress from 
the property. 
Services  any pipes, wires or cables in use throughout the twelve month period 
immediately preceding the commencement date connecting to the property.
Simply put, the policy provides cover where Mrs S is prevented from using any road or 
footpath to gain access to her property which shed benefited from for the twelve months 
prior to the start of this policy. 
Looking at the circumstances of this claim, its clear the way in which Mrs S can access her 
property will change as a result of the development. But Im not persuaded her access is 
prevented  as required by the policy. 
I say this because there is still access to the front of her property by foot. Whilst she wont be 
able to temporarily park immediately outside in order to unload / load her car  or use the 
turning head as a means to turn her car around  this doesnt prevent her from accessing 
the property. Im aware there is space for cars to pull up near to the front of the property 
(approximately 15 metres away) for deliverers and drop offs. So again, whilst the way in 
which Mrs S accesses her property has changed, its not prevented.
Furthermore, Mrs S still has vehicular access to the basement car park, and Ive seen no 
evidence to suggest access is prevented as a result of the obstructed ventilation shafts. 
Because of this, Im inclined to agree with Evolution that the claim doesnt fall under the 
policy cover available. So it follows that I dont think Evolutions rejection of the claim on this 
basis was incorrect or unfair. 
Evolution has said that its prepared to reconsider the claim if, after the works are completed, 
Mrs S has suffered a loss covered by the policy. I think this is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman