DRN-2166944
The complaint
Ms R feels that Etika Finance UK Limited has treated her unfairly in relation some cosmetic 
goods and services she purchased from a salon with a finance agreement.
What happened
In June 2018 Ms R entered into a contract for some cosmetic goods and services. These 
goods and services were supplied by a salon and paid for through a loan provided by Etika. 
This was a fixed sum loan agreement for a total repayable amount of £2400 to be repaid 
over twenty-four monthly repayments. She signed the agreement electronically.
The salon has closed and initially Etika didnt feel it needed to do anything because Ms R 
complained before the salon stopped trading. So Ms R complained to this Service.
The Investigator issued an opinion which found that the contract Ms R agreed was made up 
of fourteen elements of which eight were provided to Ms R. As the salon is no longer trading 
it cannot provide the remaining six elements of the contract. So the Investigator felt Ms R 
should receive a price reduction reflecting this breach of contract. So the final position was 
that taking into account the payments made Ms R still had an outstanding debt with Etika 
and she should pay that.
Ms R feels she should pay nothing further. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms R raised her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is also relevant in this complaint as it covers contracts where 
goods and/or services are provided.
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Ms R has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, she can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider (Etika here) provided certain conditions are met. Etika accepts 
that Ms R should receive a significant reduction in what she owes in light of the 
acknowledged breach of contract through the salon closing and thus not providing the 
outstanding elements of the contract.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship. I think this is made out here also. Bearing in mind 
Etika has acknowledged that the entire course of treatments hasnt been provided and thus 
a breach of contract has occurred, I need to consider how this matter should be resolved 
fairly between the parties.
As Ive said it isnt particularly clear what level of goods and services Ms R has received. Her 
recollections arent particularly precise which is understandable as these events were some 
time ago. The Investigator found the contract had fourteen elements to it, of which eight 
were provided. We do know the total cost so calculations have been provided to Ms R to 
explain what a fair position would be with regard to her finance agreement with Etika taking 
account the breach of contract which has happened here. Ms R doesnt feel she should have 
to pay anything further but hasnt disputed the investigators findings with regard to what 
goods and services have been provided and which havent. Having considered everything 
here I think it fair to take the position that the contract had fourteen elements, that eight were 
provided and six were not. Furthermore I think it fair that Ms R pays for the goods and 
services she did receive and doesnt pay for those that she didnt receive. 
The total price was £2,400. This divided by the fourteen equal parts of the contract means 
the value of each element is £171.42. I therefore feel Ms R should receive a price reduction 
of £1028.52 (6x 171.42) to represent the six elements of the contract not provided. The total 
price was £2,400 and this therefore means the total amount Ms R is liable for on this 
agreement is £1371.48 minus the payments shes made to Etika. 
Ms R has said that the treatment wasnt completed so she hasnt had the full benefit of the 
treatment. If Ms R wants to complete the treatments she could ask Etika to replace the 
missing treatments with alternate treatments. But then Ms R would have to pay the full 
£2400 of the contract which Im not persuaded she wishes to do.
The Consumer Rights Act states that goods provided must be of a satisfactory quality. It also 
says services must be provided with reasonable skill and care. It is clear Ms R received both 
goods and services here in relation to her skin. It is also clear that Ms R had treatments at 
the salon and used the products provided. Ms R says the treatments didnt fix the issues she 
had when she started. But it is clear the contracted elements of treatment werent 
completed. So it maybe that had they been completed these issues would have been 
resolved. And Im not persuaded that Ms R has suffered any harm here. I should add for 
clarity that even if Ms Rs arguments had been made out here this service cannot award for 
loss of amenity. So if she feels she has suffered such a loss then she should take 
independent legal advice on that specific matter.
Ms R has made many arguments as to why she shouldnt have to pay for anything received 
from the salon and I shall now address those key outstanding arguments here.
She says Etika didnt do enough with regard to the salon and should have known it was a 
scam. But this service hasnt seen persuasive evidence that this salon was a scam. After all 
it is clear that goods and services were provided over a period of time by the salon. 
Furthermore it must be remembered that although the law does place Etika in the same 
shoes as the salon for the purposes of the Act in situations such as these, Etika is not one 
and the same as the salon. It had a relationship with the salon and provided finance to its 
customers, but they are separate legal entities. So Etikas liability here isnt endless.
Ms R has argued that she was subjected to aggressive sales techniques. But she hasnt 
really described these in any persuasive detail. And clearly she returned to the salon on a 
number of occasions. And I can see it was a significant time between making the agreement 
and cancelling the direct debit agreement and complaining. Taking all we know into account 
Im not persuaded Ms R didnt have free choice in agreeing to what she agreed to here. So I dont think Etika has treated her unfairly in expecting her to pay a fair amount under the 
agreement for the goods and services she did receive.
Putting things right
 In short, Ive considered everything that Ms R has said. I appreciate how Ms R feels about 
the whole situation. There is a clear breach of contract and I think it fair that Ms R doesnt 
pay for those parts of the contract she didnt receive. And on balance Im not persuaded that 
the goods supplied were of an unsatisfactory quality or that the services provided were not 
carried out without reasonable skill and care. So Etika can ask Ms R to repay the 
outstanding but reduced amount as Ive described above. It should remove any adverse 
entries on Ms Rs credit file between the date of the salon ceasing trading and date of this 
decision. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Etika 
Finance UK Limited. It should reduce the outstanding amount Ms R owes by £1028.52 to 
reflect the elements of the contract not provided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman