DRN-2608293
The complaint
Mrs C complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with RCI Financial 
Services Limited (RCI) was misrepresented to her.
What happened
Mr C brought a complaint on behalf of his wife Mrs C. As Mrs C is the name on the finance 
agreement and for simplicity, I will refer to her throughout this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint RCI, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs C acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant legislation explains that finance providers are liable for what they say and for 
what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes out the credit 
agreement. So, if the dealership provided a false statement of fact (a misrepresentation) that 
induced Mrs C to take out a finance agreement she would not otherwise have taken out, I 
would think RCI were responsible and Id ask them to take some further action.
I think its likely that there was a misrepresentation here. RCI have explained that Mrs C 
received a 2019 and not a 2020 model of car. They say there wasnt a 2019 diesel version of 
this car with the specification Mrs C says she was promised. Whilst that may be the case I 
have to decide if its most likely Mrs C was told the car would be provided with the features 
she complains where missing. I think thats likely because:
the dealerships representative who sold the car to Mrs C emailed her on 9 
September and said, I have checked every spec sheet and nowhere does it say that 
any of these options are an optional extra on top of the standard spec so I can't see 
why it wouldn't have them. I think that supports Mrs Cs suggestion the dealership 
would have told her the car did have these options when she enquired;
Mrs C questioned the missing features the day after she took receipt of the car and I 
think that supports her testimony that she was told to expect those features;
the dealership appear to have opened a case with Jeep to dispute the missing 
features. That suggests the dealership believed the functions should have been 
present and that strengthens Mrs Cs argument she was told the functions came with 
the car;
Mrs C has provided advertisements from the groups Glasgow dealership that she 
downloaded in September 2020, just after she took receipt of her car. There are two 
but for slightly different models. One is for a very similar model (1.6 Multijet 120 
Limited 5dr instead of 2.0 Multijet 140 Limited 5dr). I think it would be very likely to 
carry the same internal specification as the model Mrs C eventually financed. The 
specification of that car on the groups advert shows the presence of forward collision 
warning, 8-way electric adjustable front seats + driver memory and speed sensitive 
power door locks. I think that supports Mrs Cs testimony that these features were 
promised to her.
Im also persuaded that had Mrs C known the functions were not going to be provided she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the deal. I say that because she complained about the 
problem straight away and because I dont think she would have pursued this issue so 
determinedly if it wasnt very important to her.
So, I would agree that this car has been misrepresented to Mrs C and RCI should therefore 
take some action to put her, as far as possible, back in the position she would have been in 
if the misrepresentation hadnt happened.
Putting things right
RCI should cancel the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mrs C. 
They should refund any deposit she may have made and add 8% interest to that deposit as 
Mrs C has been deprived of that money.
Theyll also need to refund all the finance instalments that Mrs C has paid and, as shes 
been deprived of that money, they should add 8% interest to that refund as well.
But its only fair for Mrs C to pay for any use shes had from the car. Shes explained that 
shes driven about 1,000 miles and so I think the investigators suggestion that RCI retain 
one monthly finance instalment is a reasonable one to compensate them for the loss in value 
of the car they will experience due to the mileage completed.
Mrs C has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to raise the them with 
the dealership and with the manufacturer and shes had to escalate her complaint to this 
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In the circumstances I think RCI 
should pay her £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell RCI Financial Services 
Limited to:
end the finance agreement;collect the car at no cost to Mrs C;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any finance instalments Mrs C has paid, retaining one in respect of fair use. 
Add 8% simple interest to this refund from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
pay Mrs C £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Cs credit file in respect of 
these issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman