DRN-1225527
 
The complaint
Miss N says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, I'll only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Miss N bought the policy in 2004 over the phone, to cover a store card she took out in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ns case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats passed, there isnt still a recording of the call where Miss N 
was sold PPI. But from what Ive seen of the process for these sales at the time, the staff 
member was instructed to make it clear the policy was optional. And by the point of this sale, 
Miss N had already had her store card for about eight months, so she wouldve known she 
didnt have to take out PPI in order to be approved for the card. Overall, I think its most likely 
that AXA made Miss N aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it at the time.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss N, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Miss N enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Miss N about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. While Miss N was self-
employed, the policy still covered her, and she shouldnt have found it significantly harder to 
claim. And she doesnt seem to have had any other significant cover.  So the policy would 
have been useful for Miss N in case something went wrong. And so I dont think that better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
My final decisionFor the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman