DRN-3509318
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains about the handling by Starling Bank Limited 
of its application to open a new account under the Business Banking Switch Scheme.
Mr B, a director of W, brings the complaint on W's behalf.
What happened
In February 2021, W applied to open a bank account with Starling under the incentivised 
Business Banking Switch Scheme. This was shortly prior to the deadline for applications 
under the scheme.
Mr B had recently switched an account for another business (which I shall call E) to Starling 
and received the incentive payment. 
Starling required all persons with significant control (PSCs) to go through their onboarding 
process, which included video verification. 
In considering Es application, Starling had advised Mr B to remove his father from the PSC 
register on Companies House, even though his father continued to own more than 25% of 
Es shares. Following this step, Starling did not require Mr Bs father to go through the 
onboarding process. 
In considering Ws application, Starling explained that its previous advice was wrong. It said 
Mr Bs father should be reinstated on the PSC register for W so that the register accurately 
reflected all PSCs. It then required Mr Bs father to go through the onboarding process 
before Ws application could be approved.
However, Mr Bs father has early-stage dementia and was unable to complete the required 
steps. Starling referred the case to its vulnerability team to consider if Mr Bs father might 
complete the onboarding process in a different way, but this team said it required evidence 
of mental capacity. Therefore, although alternative approaches were available for some 
applicants (eg those with impaired voice/hearing), it was unable to propose an alternative in 
the circumstances of this health condition.
Starling informed Mr B that the only way to avoid the required checks was for Mr Bs father 
to divest his shareholding below 25% so that he ceased to be a PSC of W. As this did not 
happen and as the required checks on Mr Bs father were not completed, Ws application 
was not approved.
Mr B complained. He said that Starling had provided advice in Es application, on which 
basis he had then submitted an account application for W. He also said that Starling had 
been discriminatory in not finding an alternative means by which to complete its checks on 
his father. Mr B said that these failings had caused W to miss out on the incentive payment.
Starling apologised for providing the wrong advice to Mr B in the context of Es application. 
However, it said that it had processed Ws application properly, including requiring the 
checks on all PSCs as set out in its onboarding procedures. Starling apologised that the 
onboarding team didnt ask more questions upfront to understand better the health condition 
of Mr Bs father. But it said that it had considered whether there were alternative means by 
which the checks might be conducted and determined that, in the circumstances, this wasnt 
possible. 
Mr B brought Ws complaint to our service. Our investigator reviewed all the evidence 
provided by both sides and found that, although Starling had provided wrong advice in the 
context of Es application, it had acted reasonably in Ws application. He said Starling could 
not be expected to apply a wrong process in the second application once it had identified its 
error in the first. He also said that Starlings onboarding procedures were reasonable, and 
that Starling had considered whether alternative procedures were possible in the health 
circumstances of Mr Bs father. He concluded that Starling need take no further action.
Mr B did not agree. He reiterated that:
Starlings advice within Es application had established a reasonable expectation that 
Ws application would also be successful. He said that, had he realised what checks 
Starling would require in Ws application, he would have applied to a different bank. 
He demonstrated that it would have been possible to open an account elsewhere 
without his father being required to record a video through evidence of a successful 
account application to a different bank for a business in which Mr Bs father also had 
significant control.
Starling appeared to have applied a blanket approach which assumed anyone with 
dementia was not capable of managing their own affairs, which was wrong and 
discriminatory. He said that his father fully understood what was happening. He said 
Starling had asked no questions about his fathers condition and made no 
accommodation for his circumstances. 
As the matter could not be resolved, it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between W and Starling and considered 
all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider 
central to this complaint. There are two key issues:
Did Starling act reasonably in requiring Mr Bs father to be onboarded within Ws 
account application process, particularly in light of the advice provided to Mr B in the 
context of Es application?
Was Starling reasonable in the steps it required of Mr Bs father to be onboarded?
I consider each in turn.
Requirement for Mr Bs father to be onboarded
Starling operates within a regulatory environment in which it has established procedures to 
verify the identity of its customers, conduct anti-money laundering checks and ensure the 
security of those operating accounts. Starlings procedures include ensuring all PSCs are identified and onboarded before a business account is opened. I believe this is reasonable 
and reflects good practice.
Different banks onboard their customers in different ways. Starling requires all PSCs to 
conduct a video verification process. I do not believe this is an unreasonable element to 
include in its standard procedures. 
It is not in dispute that Mr Bs father is a PSC of W, according to the standard definitions of a 
PSC, as he owns over 25% of Ws shares. It is also not in dispute that Starling was wrong to 
instruct Mr B, in the context of Es application, to change Es PSC register. Starling has 
apologised for this. I can see how this encouraged Mr B to think that Starling would consider 
Ws application in the same way but, having identified its error, I do not believe Starling could 
reasonably proceed in the same way. Starlings policy is clearly to require all PSCs to be 
onboarded within its business account opening checks, and it would have been acting 
irresponsibly to forego those checks simply because it had erroneously made that mistake in 
a previous case. 
For these reasons, I think Starling acted reasonably within Ws account application to require 
Mr Bs father, as a PSC of W, to be subject to its onboarding procedures. I note that Starling 
did also advise Mr B of the alternative option for W, which was for Mr Bs father to divest his 
shareholding to below 25%.
I acknowledge that this decision put Mr B in a difficult position as, by the time the required 
process was explained, and the challenges to completing the checks on his father were 
identified, it was too late to submit an application to a different bank with less burdensome 
procedures. However, I do not believe I can hold Starling responsible for that. Starling made 
a mistake in Es application. Had that mistake not been made and had Starling therefore 
rejected Es application due to not being able to onboard Mr Bs father, it is possible that 
Mr B would have submitted account applications for both E and W to a different bank. 
However, I cannot say what other bank that would have been or what actions that bank 
might have required from Mr B and his father to be onboarded. Mr B has provided evidence 
from another bank concerning a partnership application, but it is not clear how that bank, or 
any other, would have considered applications from E and W. I also note that time was tight 
with the deadline for applications approaching in February 2021. For these reasons, I do not 
believe I can reasonably conclude that, on the balance of probabilities, in the absence of 
Starlings mistake in Es application, both E and W would have successfully opened 
accounts elsewhere in time to benefit from the incentive scheme payment. Therefore, I do 
not believe that Starlings mistake with regard to Es application caused W loss. 
Steps required by Starling for Mr Bs father to be onboarded
Starling has apologised that the onboarding team didnt ask more questions upfront to 
understand better the health condition of Mr Bs father. However, Starling did refer the need 
to onboard Mr Bs father to their vulnerability team to consider whether, in the circumstances 
of Ws account application and his health condition, an alternative process could be followed. 
This appears to me to have been an appropriate step to take. No alternative was proposed 
as the team said it was necessary for all applicants to have the mental capacity to apply for 
the account, which included PSCs. This is consistent with Starlings terms and conditions, 
which require all PSCs to have the capacity and authority to enter in the agreement and to 
manage the account on behalf of the company. The response from Starlings specialist 
vulnerability team does not, therefore, appear to me to be unreasonable. 
Mr B noted that, where a customer has a voice or hearing impairment, Starling was willing to 
accept the customer holding the required words in front of the camera. But I can appreciate 
why Starlings specialist team did not think this would be appropriate in the health circumstances of Mr Bs father. The team determined that, in his circumstances, it was 
important that the process demonstrated his mental capacity, as a PSC, to enter into the 
agreement and manage the account, which they determined was best achieved through 
video verification. I do not believe the decision not to offer the accommodations given to 
other customers with other heath conditions was unreasonable.
For these reasons, I dont believe that Starling acted unreasonably in the steps it required of 
Mr Bs father to be onboarded.
Overall, I have sympathy for Mr B that he was unable to successfully transfer Ws account in 
time to benefit from the incentive payment, but I do not believe I can hold Starling 
responsible. For this reason, I do not require Starling to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman