DRN-3459099
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the way State Bank Of India (UK) Limited (SBI) dealt with the 
maturity of their fixed deposit bond. They say they suffered stress and unnecessary 
inconvenience due to the way things were handled.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P invested in a joint fixed deposit bond that was due mature on 5 May 2021. As 
they hadnt received any information about the maturity, Mr P emailed SBI on 26 April 2021. 
On 30 April 2021, concerned as they didnt receive a reply to their email, Mr P telephoned 
his local l branch. He says during the call he was told the interest offerings currently 
available and if he wished roll over his investment, he could provide instructions by email. 
But if he wished to close and withdraw funds, then a personal visit to a branch was 
necessary. Following this SBI sent him an email detailing the interest rates available. The 
email also said, To give your instruction kindly visit the branch as your email address is not 
registered in our system hence, we will be unable to accept your instruction via email.
As it was now close to the maturity date, Mr P visited his local branch on 4 May 2021 and 
gave an instruction to reinvest. 
Following this Mr and Mrs P raised a complaint. They were unhappy with the way the 
maturity had been handled and felt if the maturity pack had arrived in a timely manner, Mr 
Ps branch visit would not have been necessary. And they were unhappy with the timescales 
they were given to make a decision on how to proceed with the maturity proceeds. 
SBI responded to the complaint. It explained it didnt send out the maturity letter as the 
system failed to generate the letter due to a technical issue. But as Mr and Mrs P had 
previously held other deposits, they were aware of the maturity process. So, when they did 
not receive the maturity letter, they visited the branch prior to maturity to provide their 
instruction. And as the instruction was given prior to maturity, it didnt have any impact on 
their decision of renewing the deposit.
It did give Mr and Mrs P the option to break the fixed term deposit and provide a new 
instruction, but they decided to leave the term deposit as it is. It offered Mr and Mrs P £70 for 
the inconvenience it had caused them  and credited this to their account. 
Mr and Mrs P remined unhappy and thought that they should receive a higher compensation 
payment. They referred their complaint to this service for an independent review. 
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. In summary, she found that while errors 
had been made, the compensation offered was in line with what we would expect 
businesses to offer for stress and inconvenience, in situations such as this.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. In summary, they said they didnt feel the investigator had 
accurately consider the inconvenience of having to visit a branch to give their instruction as 
Mr Ps suffers from mobility issues. They also said the reduced timescales they had to make 
a decision about what to do with the maturity proceeds did impact them as they had 24 
hours to decide rather than the month they should have had. As no resolution could be 
agreed the complaint has been passed to me to make a financial decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint relates to the way SBI handled the maturity of Mr and Mrs Ps 
bond. It is acknowledged by SBI that things were not handled as they should have been. It is 
accepted that an error led to no maturity pack being sent. This had a knock-on effect that led 
to Mr P having to visit a branch to provide their instruction to reinvest. 
Ive considered the impact SBIs errors had on Mr and Mrs P. Im satisfied they havent 
suffered a financial loss as a result of the way SBI handled the maturing of their bond. They 
were able to make a decision in time for their funds to be reinvested. I also note that SBI 
offered to allow them an option to break the deposit and invest in an alternative product, but 
they didnt take up the offer and stuck with the decision they made. 
But they have suffered practical and emotional impact as a result of the way things were 
handled. So, Ive considered whether the offer (of £70 compensation) made by SBI is 
sufficient to compensate them for this. 
I recognise the situation has caused worry to Mr and Mrs P in respect of not knowing what 
was going on leading to them making several inquiries as the maturity date closer. I note an 
email wasnt responded to adding to the worry. There was confusion about whether they 
needed to visit a branch to give their instruction.  Mr and Mrs P also say the short timescales 
to make a decision about what to do with the maturing funds was concerning. I accept that 
they would have had more time to decide if things happened as they should have. While this 
hasnt caused them to lose out financially, I can see it put additional stress on them when 
deciding what to do with their savings. 
Mr and Mrs P also suffered inconvenience through having to chase things up by email and 
then by phone. SBI has conceded Mr and Mrs P should have been able to avoid a branch 
visit because the maturity instructions (they didnt receive) would have given them the option 
of providing the documents by post. But due to the failure to provide the maturity pack, there 
wasnt time to post their instruction and they had to visit the branch. Mr P has told us that he 
suffers from mobility issues, so it was inconvenient to have to visit a branch and caused him 
additional pain. And this was also a time where there were restrictions still in place due to 
the pandemic. So, I understand that having to visit the branch was something that did have a 
reasonable impact on Mr P. 
Ive considered all of the impact Ive been told about. Using financial services wont always 
be totally hassle free and I dont think compensation will always be fair for things that arent 
more serious than the normal nuisances of everyday life. But I accept that the level of worry 
and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs P does warrant a monetary payment. I note SBI 
did quickly take steps to put things right for Mr and Mrs P. Overall, I am satisfied that the 
offer made by SBI is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and sufficiently compensates 
them. I understand this has already been paid, so I dont require SBI to anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman