DRN-2178022
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited under his home 
emergency policy.
What happened
Mr D booked his annual boiler service under his HomeCare policy. However, British Gas 
then changed the appointment the day before it was due to take place. Mr D said that British 
Gas didnt tell him. When Mr D complained, British Gas apologised for changing the 
appointment and offered him £20 compensation. It also moved the rearranged appointment 
to a date that fitted with Mr Ds availability.
Mr D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
British Gas had acted in line with its terms and conditions and that the way it resolved the 
complaint was reasonable.
As Mr D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that it was very frustrating and inconvenient for Mr D to have his annual 
service appointment moved, particularly as he said he arranged it a long time in advance. 
Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions about rearranging annual service 
appointments and they say:
In periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
So, the terms and conditions explain that sometimes British Gas will need to rearrange the 
annual service. In this instance, it appears that British Gas had high demands on its service 
due to dealing with a lot of breakdowns. Whilst I can understand that Mr D wasnt happy that 
British Gas changed the appointment, I cant see that British Gas breached its terms and 
conditions by doing so.
Ive also looked at whether British Gas told Mr D in advance that the appointment needed to 
be changed. British Gas said that it left a voicemail for Mr D telling him that the appointment 
had been changed. British Gas only keeps its phone records for three months, so it hasnt 
been possible to listen to the call recording or confirm the phone number that was called. 
However, British Gas has provided a note from its records that said it left Mr D a voicemail 
explaining that his appointment that was due to take place the next day needed to be 
cancelled because it was dealing with breakdowns. It also gave the date of the new 
appointment.
Mr D has said that he didnt get a voicemail from British Gas and that if it left the message on 
his landline that he only used that for the internet. He said that British Gas didnt call his 
mobile phone or send him an email. I cant say for certain what happened here, but based 
on the information available, I think that its more likely than not British Gas did leave a 
voicemail message for Mr D. Ive no reason to think that British Gas record of the call is 
inaccurate, so I think it did leave a voicemail for Mr D. It appears that British Gas might have 
left this on Mr Ds landline number and I dont think it was likely that British Gas would have 
known that Mr D didnt use his landline for phone calls. Although Mr D might have expected 
British Gas also to try his mobile phone and to send him an email, I dont think that there was 
any requirement to do so or for it to think that there was a specific reason to follow up on its 
voicemail through another contact method.
Mr D has also said that by changing the annual service appointment this meant that it didnt 
take place every 12 months. Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions and these 
explained what an annual service meant, which was:
a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boiler, appliance or central 
heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with the relevant laws and regulations.
It also explained that a period of agreement was:
the day your agreement starts until your agreement runs out, as detailed on
your statement.
So, on that basis I also dont think it breached the terms and conditions by there being more 
than 12 months between services as a result of the appointment being changed. The terms 
and conditions say that it will take place in each period of agreement, not every 12 months, 
so that can be more than 12 months apart.
Mr D was also concerned that British Gas rearranging the appointment could have increased 
the likelihood of his boiler suffering a breakdown. Although I can understand this concern, 
Ive seen no evidence that this actually happened and so this seems to be a hypothetical 
situation. I cant really comment on that beyond saying that if Mr Ds boiler did have 
problems due to the rearranged appointment, he should raise this with British Gas in the first 
instance so that it can investigate. He can then refer his complaint to this service if he is 
dissatisfied with British Gas response.
Mr D has also complained about the way that British Gas dealt with his complaint, including 
the time it took to speak to British Gas on the phone and how long it took British Gas to send 
the responses to his complaint. However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so 
isnt something that I can consider.
So, looking at the complaint as a whole, I can understand that Mr D was unhappy that British 
Gas changed his appointment, but I think its more likely than not that British Gas did leave 
him a voicemail to tell him this. I also havent seen anything that suggests that British Gas 
broke its terms and conditions by changing the appointment. Im aware that British Gas 
offered Mr D £20 compensation for the inconvenience caused and I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case. It therefore follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint or require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman