DRN-2961119
The complaint
Mr P complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited proportionately settled a claim he 
made on his motorcycle insurance policy following the theft of his bike. Reference to MCE 
includes its agents.
What happened
Mr P took out a motorcycle insurance policy with MCE online. After his bike was stolen, he 
made a claim to MCE.
MCE said Mr P had answered the question he was asked about his no claims bonus (NCB) 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to avoid his policy, not deal with his claim and keep the premium hed paid.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and complained to MCE. He didnt think hed answered anything 
incorrectly, and he certainly didnt think hed answered anything incorrectly deliberately or 
recklessly.
MCE looked into Mr Ps complaint. It said it still thought Mr P had answered the question he 
was asked about his NCB incorrectly, and it said this was a qualifying misrepresentation. But 
it said it no longer thought the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, instead, it 
thought the misrepresentation was careless. It said this meant it wouldnt avoid his policy 
and it would deal with his claim. But it said it was only proportionately settling his claim.
Mr P remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He maintained hed not answered 
anything incorrectly and thought MCE should deal with his claim in full. He said he wasnt 
able to travel without his bike and wants compensating for this. He also said he has incurred 
legal fees in trying to defend himself and wants MCE to reimburse him for these too. And he 
is worried about the potential impact on his future policies of having to declare hes had a 
policy avoided.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. 
She understood that Mr P didnt think hed answered anything incorrectly when he took the 
policy out. But she thought the evidence provided by MCE was more persuasive and thought 
it more likely than not he had answered the question incorrectly. She thought MCE had 
shown us this answer was a qualifying misrepresentation and she thought it was fair it 
treated it as careless. She thought MCE was entitled to settle Mr Ps claim proportionately 
and didnt recommend it do anything more.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I understand Mr P feels strongly about this 
case and wont be happy with this answer. Ill explain my reasoning.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
MCE thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered the question he was asked about his NCB. MCE said when Mr P took the policy 
out, he said he had five years NCB, but after he made the claim it found this NCB was for a 
car not a bike. MCE said Mr P was asked how many years bike NCB he had. And it said on 
application there was a pop up which clearly explained this NCB needed to be earnt on a 
motorcycle policy and that any NCB earnt on a car policy wouldnt be accepted.
Mr P disputes this. He said he was asked about his NCB only. Hes said there was no 
mention of bike NCB or any explanation that NCB earnt on a car policy wouldnt be 
accepted.
Theres no dispute surrounding Mr Ps answer. Both he and MCE agree he answered the 
question with 5 years. What is in dispute is what question he was asked.
Both MCE and Mr P have submitted evidence to support their position. Mr P is adamant he 
never answered anything incorrectly, and thats evidence in itself. But hes also provided 
screenshots which support his position. In the screenshots hes asked, Do you have any No 
claims Bonus to be used on this policy. And next to that theres a drop-down box allowing 
him to choose the number of years he wants to let MCE know about. Theres no mention of 
the NCB needed to be used on a bike policy previously.
But MCE has also provided screenshots of the questions it says Mr P was asked when he 
took out this policy. These screenshots as Mr Ps asked to provide Number of years Bike 
NCB. Theres a question mark next to this question indicating further information to help. 
And MCE has provided a screenshot of the advice which pops up when this is hovered over. 
It says: Please enter the number of current years UK bike no claims bonus you hold. Your 
No Clams can only be used on one bike at a time and must have been used on a bike policy 
within the last three years. 
So here we have two different questions, and evidence to support both questions being 
asked. But Mr P took out this policy in May 2020 and MCE has said it updated its website in 
November 2020. And the wayback machine supports this  although it doesnt show the full 
journey, it does indicate the website has been updated. The screenshots Mr P has provided 
were created in December 2020, after the website updated.
I understand Mr P will disagree with me on this point, and I can understand why. I appreciate 
he says he remembers what he answered, and I dont disbelieve what he remembers. But 
Im conscious that what someone remembers isnt always exactly what happened. I think its more likely than not that he was asked the questions MCE has provided us with. Im more 
persuaded thats the case based on the evidence provided.
And based on the questions MCE has provided, I think MCE are acting fairly and reasonably 
when saying he failed to take reasonable care. This question clearly says the NCB must 
have been used on a bike policy, and Mr Ps wasnt, it was used on a car.
MCE has provided evidence from its underwriting criteria to show that Mr P was given a 
discount for saying he had five years NCB that he wouldnt have been given had he said 
hes had zero years NCB.
This means Im satisfied MCE has shown Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered the question about his NCB. And Im satisfied its 
shown us it would have acted differently had that misrepresentation not been made. This 
means Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
MCE has treated Mr Ps misrepresentation as careless. As thats the most favourable 
outcome for Mr P, Im not going to interfere with that decision.
As Im satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions MCE can take in accordance with CIDRA.
MCE has shown it would have entered into a contract with Mr P had he not misrepresented 
the number of years NCB he had. As its treated his misrepresentation as careless it must 
still deal with his claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. But it may settle this claim 
proportionately. And thats what its done in this case, so Im satisfied thats fair and 
reasonable.
Mr P is worried he has to let other insurers know hes had a policy avoided. But to be clear, 
this policy ultimately wasnt avoided. It was initially, but MCE agreed this decision was 
incorrect.
Ive considered whether any compensation is due to Mr P for MCEs initial error  of avoiding 
the policy and refusing his claim. But in this case, Im not recommending any be given. This 
is because while I understand Mr P has said hes been without a bike, this is still the case 
after MCE proportionately settled his claim as hes said the proportionate settlement isnt 
enough for him to purchase a new one. Had it proportionately settled his claim in the first 
instance, hed be in the same position of not being able to afford a replacement bike.
Ive also considered whether any compensation is due for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by first avoiding Mr Ps policy before settling his claim proportionately. But again 
here, in this case Im not recommending MCE pay any. As set out above Im satisfied MCEs 
decision to proportionately settle his claim is fair and reasonable. So, I need to consider 
whether any distress and inconvenience was caused by avoiding his policy and declining his 
claim that wouldnt have been caused had MCE said it was proportionately settling his claim 
in the first instance. I appreciate he wouldnt have had the worry of declaring his policy being 
avoided, but I dont think this in itself warrants compensation in this particular case. Mr P 
remains extremely unhappy with MCEs final position, so had it reached that decision first, I 
think its more likely than not hed still have remained unhappy.
And I dont require MCE to reimburse Mr P for any legal fees hes had to pay. We are a free 
to use service and its not required to have legal representation to bring a complaint to us. 
Ultimately, it was Mr Ps decision to seek legal representation.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman