DRN-2893332
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out the PPI in 2001 at the same time as applying for the mortgage. 
Although it was a joint mortgage the PPI was set up just to cover Mr C.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they were told that they had to take out the PPI if they wanted the 
mortgage to be agreed.
Nationwide no longer has any paperwork from the sale which is not surprising given how 
long ago it took place. However, from what we know of Nationwides sales process at the 
time, the PPI was usually presented as optional. And I havent seen any evidence that would 
lead me to conclude that something different happened in this case.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs C have said, but Ive also considered how 
long ago the sale took place and how this may have affected Mr and Mrs Cs memory of the 
sale. And in fact Mr and Mrs C have told us that they cant remember how the policy was 
sold to them.
On balance, I consider that Mr and Mrs C probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that 
they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so. 
 
Nationwide needed to provide Mr and Mrs C with sufficient information for them to be able to 
make an informed decision about whether or not the policy was right for them.
Mr C says he had an existing term only policy. But that sounds like it was life insurance and 
therefore the PPI was not replicated his existing cover. Mr C says he would have received 
some sick pay from his job. However, the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay and potentially for longer than Mr C would have received full pay for. A mortgage is a 
significant financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs C had an 
interest in protecting their repayments. Overall, I think Mr and Mrs C had a need for the 
policy and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, he didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might have been 
excluded under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C have said they werent told that they could purchase PPI from another 
provider. But Nationwide did not have any obligation to highlight any other products available 
on the open market. It just had to provide sufficient information about the product that it was 
selling.
As I consider that Mr and Mrs C had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
consider that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they are 
no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman