DRN-2644946
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs H are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined to cover a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G and Mrs H were on holiday when Mrs H became unwell and was taken to hospital. 
Theres limited medical evidence about the cause of Mrs Hs illness but she was placed into 
an induced coma. Mrs H then developed problems with her feet which needed more 
treatment. 
AXA declined the claim on the basis that a brief medical report indicated that Mrs H needed 
to be placed into a medically induced coma because shed been drinking alcohol. They 
considered that the issues with Mrs Hs feet were connected to her hospital admission. Mrs 
H says that she wasnt drunk and that everyone drinks on holiday. She says that the issue 
with her feet was unrelated to her admission to hospital. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, he said that AXA had fairly declined the claim on the basis of the medical 
evidence and that it wasnt unreasonable for them to consider the two issues to be 
connected. 
Mrs H didnt agree as she said the two issues werent related. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions contain an exclusion which says cover isnt provided for: 
You drinking too much alcohol or alcohol abuse where it is reasonably foreseeable 
that such consumption could result in an impairment of Your faculties and/or 
judgement resulting in a claim. We do not expect You to avoid alcohol on Your trips 
or holidays but we will not cover any claims arising because You have drunk so much 
alcohol that your judgement is seriously affected and You need to make a claim as a 
result. 
In relation to Mrs Hs admission the medical report says: 
Client was in a coma due to alcohol abuse with intubation. Upon discharge, she was 
recommended to stop drinking, continue the medical prescription and do a follow up. 
I dont think AXA has unreasonably declined Mr G and Mrs Hs claim because: 
The medical report clearly states that Mrs H was placed in a coma due to alcohol 
abuse. So, I dont think its unreasonable that they relied on the exclusion in the 
policy and declined the claim. I appreciate that Mrs H disagrees with the contents of 
the medical report. But shes not provided any persuasive evidence to confirm that 
the contents of the medical report is incorrect or inaccurate. Our service also had the 
report translated independently and it confirms that Mrs H was treated for a coma 
following alcohol consumption
AXA isnt responsible for the standard of care in the treating hospital. But I would 
expect them to respond appropriately if Mr G or Mrs H raised concerns about the 
standard of care. But no concerns were raised until after Mrs H was discharged, so 
AXA didnt have the opportunity to offer Mr G and Mrs H any additional support once 
she was transferred to the ward from intensive care
I think Mrs Hs problems with her feet began with her admission to hospital. The most 
likely cause, based on the medical evidence, is bed sores or blood being taken from 
Mrs Hs feet. The contact notes confirm that the first reports of the issue with Mrs Hs 
feet were following her being placed in a medically induced coma. I appreciate that 
Mrs H was released from hospital, and then had further treatment for complications in 
relation to her feet, but Im satisfied the issue stemmed from her admission to 
hospital. As that isnt covered under the policy, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
AXA to decline the claim for the treatment for her feet.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman