DRN-3057795
The complaint
Mr W complains that an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services Ltd should 
have advised him to take out an L&G fixed term annuity with a guarantee period - to match 
another one he already had - instead of the value protected fixed term annuity with LV= that 
it recommended.
He also complains that it failed to remind him of his cancellation rights when he first realised 
the L&G annuity would give him a higher income.
What happened
Mr W approached Quilter in July 2020 with a preconceived idea of using the transfer value of 
his defined benefit (DB) pension to obtain a higher tax-free cash sum and income, via a 
fixed-term annuity for just under 11 years until he reached his 67th birthday. This was only 
one of a number of pensions Mr W was drawing. The reasoning was that he had a particular 
income shortfall until his and his wifes state pensions would begin at around that age. And 
the higher tax-free cash would fund additional national insurance contributions for Mrs W to 
top up her state pension so that this income could better utilise her tax allowances.
Mr W says that he told the adviser he was happy with taking out another fixed term annuity 
with L&G as they paid the highest income over an 11 year term. But owing to legislation 
introduced in 2015 he was required to take independent advice when transferring his DB 
pension. My understanding is that the annuity Mr W already held with L&G guaranteed the 
same income to be paid to his wife for the rest of the term, if he died during that term. 
The quotes Quilters adviser obtained on 11 September 2020 were based on a single life 
annuity payable until age 67, which had value protection of 100% of the original purchase 
price (before adviser charges had been taken). This meant that Mrs W would receive a lump 
sum equal to the purchase price less the income hed received up to the point of his death 
during the term. As L&G didnt provide annuities on this basis, it didnt return a quote. LV=s 
quote from a purchase price of £48,109 after tax-free cash was £4,264pa.
Quilters suitability report issued on 25 September 2020 indicated that Mr W and the adviser 
had a discussion about death benefits and your preference is for the lump sum death 
benefits. Mr W subsequently confirmed receipt of this report, but he explains that time was 
limited because the LV= quote was only guaranteed not to change until 11 October. The 
transfer value from the DB scheme was also only guaranteed until 14 October. As a result 
he felt he was rushed into signing paperwork at a hastily arranged meeting on 30 September 
2020.
The LV= policy came into force on 25 October following receipt of funds from the DB 
scheme. Mr W suggests he then obtained a comparable quote from L&G on an online 
comparison site on 6 November, and it was about £11 per month higher than the income he 
was getting. He complained to Quilter that same day, but it didnt respond to his complaint 
until 10 December. Part of its reply said that Mr W could have been within his 30-day 
cancellation period when he complained, which Mr W feels is frustrating and futile advice 
given that Quilter could have told him this at the time.
In Quilters response to the complaint, it said that the adviser had queried why income
was prioritised over capital for the death benefits on Mr Ws existing L&G policy, and Mr W 
had confirmed this was all that L&G offered. So Quilters recommendation was that the lump 
sum death benefit better suited Mr Ws needs, and he agreed with that advice as his wife 
was unlikely to particularly have a shortfall in income on his death.
Mr W didnt agree and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of 
our investigators issued an initial view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld, for these main 
reasons:
- Mr W had made clear that the complaint wasnt about the suitability of transferring 
out of the DB scheme, but rather which type of annuity was appropriate.
- He wasnt satisfied that Mr W wanted the highest possible income at the expense of 
the most appropriate form of death benefit for his wife.
- It was understandable that the adviser hadnt explored the income level from L&G, 
given that it didnt provide death benefits in that preferred form.
- So, the recommendation was suitable for Mr W regardless of whether L&G might 
have provided a higher income (with a different format of death benefits).
- Mr Ws cancellation rights were mentioned in the key features document LV= issued 
to him and would have been discussed during Quilters advice.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he wouldnt have wanted to cancel the 
policy without Quilters help - out of a concern that any money returned to him might be 
heavily taxed, and funds returned to the DB scheme would make him liable for a charge to 
recalculate the transfer value. 
He also reiterated that he did want the absolute maximum income from a fixed term annuity 
at the time.  But in any event, there was little difference between the value protection on the 
LV= annuity and the guarantee period he had on his L&G annuity.
As agreement couldnt been reached, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept what Mr W is saying, which is that he found a quote online from L&G on 
6 November 2020 that paid about £135pa more than he is getting from LV=. What I dont 
know is whether that matched his LV= annuity in all other ways than the format of death 
benefits (for example the exact length of payment term in months, and whether the same 
adviser fee was allowed for). As annuity rates frequently change, that may or may not have 
been the same rate quoted on 11 September: the date the LV= quote was guaranteed from.
For that reason the investigator recently contacted L&G and it was able to confirm that it 
would have quoted £106pa more than LV= for an exact 11-year term (rather than to Mr Ws 
67th birthday) from 11 September 2020 and based on the same adviser fee. The investigator 
has relayed this information to Mr W but I dont consider this is the most relevant quote, as it 
includes no value protection or guarantee period at all. Its evident in Mr Ws complaint that 
he does want to provide a subsisting benefit to his wife.
L&G has also confirmed that its fully guaranteed fixed term annuity (again for 11 full years) 
would have quoted £59pa more than LV= on 11 September 2020. I dont know if L&G could 
have quoted for a duration up to Mr Ws 67th birthday only, but if it could then I expect the 
income would have been slightly higher than this.So, although the difference might have been more marginal than it appeared to Mr W when 
he looked in November 2020, I understand why he would nevertheless have preferred to 
have this slightly higher income. But if I am to require Quilter to put him in that position, I 
need to decide whether its done anything wrong.
I realise Mr W may feel he only went to Quilter because the law required him to, but from 
Quilters point of view it was required to provide him with suitable advice  not to simply 
rubber stamp the annuity product hed already shown a preference for. In my opinion 
Quilters suitability report  which acts as a record of what was discussed  does show that 
the format of death benefits was considered as part of the recommendation. And I would 
expect it to have been, because any annuity purchase carries the key risk of loss of funds on 
early death. The report mentions the following:
Your preference is for the lump sum death benefits payable from the recommended plan as [Mrs 
W] would have sufficient guaranteed income in the form of the spouses pension from your [other 
DB] Scheme and in the future her State Pension.
On this basis, I dont consider that the adviser did anything wrong in only looking for quotes 
from providers that offered value protection rather than a guarantee period. The difference is 
that the guarantee period would pay out the remaining income on Mr Ws death steadily over  
the rest of the term as an income. The value protection would pay out all the remainder of 
the purchase price on death straight away as a lump sum. 
Whilst neither death benefit would be taxable under current legislation as Mr W would have 
died before age 75 in that event, there is an intrinsic value in receiving a lump sum death 
benefit in a single upfront payment - rather than as a stream of income. The value protection 
on the LV= annuity was also based on the purchase price before the adviser charge was 
deducted, whereas the income level that would continue to go to Mrs W under a guarantee 
period is calculated after the adviser charge was deducted.
As a result, Im not surprised that the initial income level of the L&G quote would be higher 
than the LV= quote. The potential higher cost of the death benefit to the annuity provider is 
being priced into the quote. I dont think the two quotes can therefore be compared on a like 
for like basis. It may or may not be the case that L&G was marginally more competitive when 
considering annuity products that were identical, but the overriding point here is that there 
was no obligation on the Quilter adviser to obtain quotes for a product he didnt consider was 
suitable for Mr W.
Cancellation rights
Mr W says it was frustrating for Quilter to raise the question of cancellation rights. But I dont 
think Quilter was only intending to suggest (in a letter being sent on 6 December 2020) that 
Mr W could try cancelling the annuity at that point. I think it was also pointing out that hed  
the option of trying to cancel from the moment he found the higher L&G quote (or for that 
matter, if he reflected after the 30 September meeting that he felt too rushed into proceeding 
just to secure the transfer value and rates already quoted).
I have to agree with the investigator that Mr W was informed about his cancellation rights 
during the sale  not only in the product providers literature but also in the suitability report 
emailed to him on 28 September which reads:
you will receive a notice setting out your right to change your mind within 30 days. In
practice however, once pension monies are transferred the Trustees are under no obligation to 
accept a return of the fund should you change your mind as reinstatement is time-consuming and 
extremely costly. It is not usual for Trustees to permit reinstatement. FOR THIS REASON, YOU 
SHOULD DOUBLE-CHECK THAT YOU FULLY UNDERSTAND EACH AND EVERY ASPECT OF 
MY RECOMMENDATION NOW, AS ONCE THE TRANSFER HAS TAKEN PLACE, IT WILL NOT BE REVERSIBLE AND YOUR ENTITLEMENT TO ANY BENEFITS UNDER THE FINAL SALARY 
SCHEME WILL BE LOST.
This strongly suggests that the most beneficial time to cancel would have been before the 
DB scheme had sent the funds across, as Mr Ws ability to cancel after that point was in no 
way ensured. I note that Quilter had been told Mr Ws scheme had been closed a number of 
years previously, so from this it doesnt sound likely that they would have been willing to 
accept the funds back  even if only to transmit them onwards to a different provider. This 
may have needed to be treated as a reinstatement of the pension first, if only briefly. 
So, it may be a moot point that Quilter didnt remind Mr W of his cancellation rights 
immediately in response to the complaint. But in any event, I think Quilters position that the 
adviser wasnt permitted to get involved when the complaint was made  and it first needed 
to be passed to the complaints department  is also a reasonable one.
Nevertheless in my view Mr W still had an opportunity to reflect in the ten days or so which 
followed the 30 September 2020 meeting if he felt it was rushed. As he was already 
receiving a fixed term annuity from L&G which he says he prefers, its unclear to me why he 
didnt put that point of view forward again after the adviser made his recommendation - or 
check for the same quotes he did on 6 November somewhat sooner than he did.
Mr Ws responses on this point also suggest that he did consider trying to cancel, but was 
under the impression that this would involve returning the funds to him personally. I dont 
think that can be inferred from what the adviser told him in the suitability letter, and it 
wouldnt be consistent with unwinding the transaction as if it hadnt taken place. But as Ive 
said above, there is some doubt whether by this point the DB scheme would have accepted 
the funds back.
My final decision
I havent been persuaded that Quilter gave Mr W unsuitable advice to buy a fixed term 
annuity with value protection, rather than a guarantee period. In my view Mr W had adequate 
opportunity to query that advice and/or cancel the application before funds were received, if 
he didnt agree with the advisers recommendation. I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman