DRN-3198448
The complaint
 Mr M has complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) acted unfairly by 
continuing to apply charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
 Mr M complained to RBS about charges applied to his bank account since December 2001. 
RBS said it applied all charges in line with the terms and conditions of the account and that it 
had as a gesture of goodwill previously refunded charges on a number of occasions. 
Mr M bought his complaint to this service asking for all charges to be looked at dating back 
to December 2001. An ombudsman issued a jurisdiction decision on 3 December 2021 
saying that we couldnt look at charges applied before August 2013 as Mr M had bought his 
complaint too late.
An adjudicator looked at this complaint and thought that RBS should have stopped charging 
overdraft fees from 1 July 2019 as by this point it was clear Mr M was in financial difficulty as 
he hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. 
RBS disagreed with our adjudicators view but agreed to refund all interest, fees and charges 
applied to the account from 1 July 2019 in line with our adjudicators view. RBS advised that 
after the refund Mr M would still be £600 overdrawn and that he should get in contact with 
RBS to arrange a payment plan to clear the remaining balance and that it would like to lower 
the overdraft limit to £700. 
Mr M didnt wish to accept this offer and has asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Firstly, to be clear my decision only addresses the charges applied to Mr Ms account after 
August 2013 as an ombudsman has already decided that we wont look at charges applied 
before this date. 
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what RBS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
And in this case after a detailed review of Mr Ms statements, Im in agreement with our 
adjudicator that by July 2019 it was clear Mr Ms overdraft was unsustainable as his account 
hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance over a number of months. 
RBS has told us that Mr M is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have been 
made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by his overdraft 
from July 2019. So while Mr M has been left with a balance and he might be unhappy with 
this, RBS has offered to do what Id normally expect it to do here.
All the interest, fees and charges RBS shouldnt have added will be removed from what Mr 
M now needs to pay. So what Mr M is left with to repay are the funds which he used and 
benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left him with a debt 
that he wouldnt otherwise have been left with. Indeed, this is supported by Mr Ms 
statements over the years which at the times which show significant transactions to parties 
other than existing creditors. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Mr M spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Mr M to repay these funds. So Im satisfied that what RBS has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr M to 
decide whether he wishes to accept RBSs offer.    
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr M is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman