DRN-1793685
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly increased the cost of their 
household insurance. They also feel that it withheld information from them about the fact that 
they could obtain a cheaper policy online.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M jointly held a combined buildings and contents home insurance policy, which 
was provided by Tesco. They took out their policy in August 2009  at this stage their 
insurance was provided by a different company. However, in 2011 Tesco took over as Mr 
and Mrs Ms insurer. At this stage Mr and Mrs Ms policy cost £601.40. Their policy renewed 
each year until 2018 when it was cancelled.
In August 2018, Mr and Mrs M received a renewal invitation from Tesco, which quoted a 
policy premium of £1,386.31. Mr M contacted Tesco customer services, as he said hed 
done in previous years, to invite it to reduce the premium price. 
Mr M says Tesco informed him that it could reduce the premium by up to £200. But it 
explained that if he wanted a cheaper policy hed have to apply for a quote online. 
Following Mr Ms discussion with Tesco, he compared the insurance market online. After 
doing so, Mr M was able to find a substantially cheaper policy, also with Tesco. This policy 
was underwritten by an insurer which Ill refer to as L within this decision. And the policy 
cost £326.09.  
Mr M said that, in addition to this policy being much cheaper, it was more comprehensive 
and better suited his needs than the Tesco policy hed been offered at renewal. So, he 
contacted Tesco to query why it hadnt been able to quote him the premium hed been 
offered online. He also wanted to know why he hadnt been previously told hed be able to 
obtain a much cheaper policy online. 
Mr M stated that Tesco couldnt offer him the online premium price of the policy hed seen 
online. And he said Tesco informed him that it had decided not to inform customers that 
policies could be obtained cheaper online. He also stated he was told that his premium may 
have been more expensive due to two claims which related to an escape of water and a 
claim for accidental damage. 
Mr M thought it was unfair that he hadnt been offered the policy hed been able to obtain a 
quote for online. He also thought Tesco should have informed him he could have obtained a 
cheaper policy online over the years hed held cover. He believed that this had led to him 
overpaying for insurance over the years; he thought that his loyalty had been exploited. And 
he disagreed that his claims history should have caused an increase in the policy premium 
as he said the value of the claim recorded had been unfairly inflated as a result of the work 
undertaken by the repairers Tesco had appointed. So, he complained.
When Tesco responded to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint it didnt uphold it. It explained that the 
premiums that Mr and Mrs M had been charged had been the best price it could have 
offered and had been correct for the cover it had provided. It stated that when Mr and Mrs M 
had contacted Tesco at renewals theyd received a discretionary loyalty discount. And it 
didnt agree that it had withheld information that Mr and Mrs M might have been able to 
obtain a policy cheaper online.  
Being dissatisfied with how Tesco had dealt with their complaint, Mr and Mrs M referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend 
upholding this complaint. He explained that new policy prices are often discounted, and 
thats partly why the new policy was quoted much cheaper. And he wasnt persuaded that 
Tesco had unfairly increased the price of Mr and Mrs Ms premiums over the years. So, he 
didnt recommend Tesco do anything further to resolve this complaint. But Mr and Mrs M 
rejected our investigators view of their complaint and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs M and Tesco but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs M experienced here. Its clear that they 
feel Tesco has been overcharging them for the policies theyve held since 2011 and that 
theyve been disadvantaged by renewing their policy each year. Id like to make it clear to Mr 
and Mrs M that I cant look at anything prior to 2011 because this is the point at which Tesco 
became their insurer. And I can only address what it may or may not have done in this 
decision.
Id like to also make it clear at the outset that I dont have the power to tell a business what 
its insurance should cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. Within my role I can look at whether Tesco has treated Mr 
and Mrs M fairly during the time they held their policy.
When considering whether Tesco has treated Mr and Mrs M fairly - I would need to satisfy 
myself that it had unfairly increased the cost of their policy over the years. In assessing this 
issue, Ive considered a number of things including how Tesco would treat policyholders in a 
similar position to Mr and Mrs M. Ive looked at information about the cost of the annual 
premiums Mr and Mrs M paid over the years, what Tesco has said about how the premiums 
were calculated, and what Mr and Mrs M have told us about their complaint. 
Tesco acts as an intermediary when it comes to a policyholders renewal. So, it can only 
offer a premium thats based on its current underwriter. It isnt Tescos role to search for 
potentially cheaper insurance policies that may be available online. And its told our service it 
has no panel members that only accept online quotes.
Mr and Mrs M have provided the cost of their new policy with our service. Its not in dispute 
that their new policy is very much cheaper than the premium Tesco offered in its 2018 
renewal invitation. I can see the renewal invitation quoted an annual premium of £1,386.31, 
which had increased from £916.26 the previous year.Mr and Mrs M seem to believe that, because their new policy was substantially cheaper than 
the price of their renewal quote, this indicates that Tesco has been unfairly increasing the 
cost of their premiums over the years. And I can understand why they may think this. But I 
think its important to point out that, while the quote Mr and Mrs M obtained is with Tesco, 
the insurance is provided by a different underwriter  namely L. Its therefore not the same 
as the policy Mr and Mrs M were offered at renewal.
The insurance market is very competitive. So, its not uncommon for new policies to be 
cheaper as a result of introductory offers in order to attract new customers. These discounts 
are generally recovered by increases in the following years. In addition to this, different 
insurers calculate premiums in different ways and their assessment and weighting of risk can 
vary too. So, the fact that Mr and Mrs M found a cheaper policy elsewhere doesnt 
necessarily mean Tesco unfairly increased their premiums each year.
Tesco has told our service that it calculated Mr and Mrs Ms renewal prices in accordance 
with its pricing structure. And its said it calculates the premiums for its policies in line with 
the risk the customer presents and the cover provided. 
Ive carefully reviewed the information Tesco has provided our service about the increases in 
Mr and Mrs Ms premiums since their policy started. Although the premiums increased from 
£601.40 in 2011 to £916.26 in 2017, the increases have been gradual year-on-year, as 
might be expected with inflation and the increases in Insurance Premium Tax. 
Tesco explained that during the latter years that Mr and Mrs M held their policy with it there 
was an insurance premium tax increased from 5% to 12%. It also stated that a new rating 
structure was introduced in 2016, which caused some pricing changes. It isnt uncommon for 
insurers to change how they evaluate risk and calculate prices. And our service cant tell a 
business how to approach the assessment of risk.
There was a higher premium increase during 2018, which I can understand may have 
caused Mr and Mrs M to believe they were being overcharged by Tesco. But its explained 
that the increase in premium from £916.26 in 2017 to £1,386.31 in 2018 was in part caused 
by two claims for an escape of water being settled during 2017. It stated that an earlier claim 
in October 2015, which was for accidental damage, caused a slightly higher than usual 
increase in the policy premium from 2015 to 2016.
Ive carefully considered the level of engagement Mr and Mrs M had with Tesco over the 
years they were on cover. Tesco has provided business records, which show that from 2011 
onwards, Mr and Mrs M engaged with it over the telephone on a regular basis. Theres 
evidence of discussions about payment difficulties, additional cover being added to the 
policy and issues regarding claims Mr and Mrs M were pursuing with Tesco over the years. 
It doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs M engaged much with Tesco prior to 2016 in relation to 
the cost of their premiums. But I havent seen enough to show that the premium increases 
from 2011 until 2016 were caused by anything other than inflationary and Insurance 
Premium Tax increases. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs M have been disadvantaged as a result 
of a lack of engagement.
I can see from what Mr M told our service that he contacted Tesco at renewals from 2016 
onwards in efforts to reduce the premium it had offered. In 2016, for example, Mr and Mrs M 
were invited to renew their policy for £1,097.72. But, following their discussions with Tesco, a 
loyalty discount was applied, which reduced their premium to £846. In 2017, they were 
quoted £1,235.88 but renewed for £916.26 following their discussions with Tesco about 
whether it could discount their premium. Ive seen evidence that when Mr and Mrs M contacted Tesco and made changes to their 
policy the premiums were recalculated. In addition to price increases I can see Tesco 
applied loyalty discounts to reduce the cost of Mr and Mrs Ms policy. It also restructured 
payments on occasions where Mr and Mrs M were reportedly suffering financial hardship. 
So, Im satisfied Tesco appropriately reviewed the cost of Mr and Mrs Ms policy, and 
engaged with them, during the times they made contact.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, there appears to be a clear rationale that led to the 
increases in premiums over the time that Mr and Mrs M was insured with Tesco. I think the 
increases also take into account inflation, Insurance Premium Tax rises, a pricing structure 
change and Mr and Mrs Ms claims history. Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs M were 
overcharged. And the evidence Ive seen satisfies me that their premiums were calculated 
by Tesco in the same way it would have done for any other customer in their circumstances.
I can also see that, since the introduction of new rules, Tesco informed Mr and Mrs M on 
their renewal invitation that they may be able to obtain insurance cover cheaper elsewhere if 
they shopped around. This information is displayed in a prominent position that can easily be 
seen on Mr and Mrs Ms renewal invitation. Each invitation also clearly showed Mr and Mrs 
M how much theyd paid for insurance the previous year. I therefore think the information Mr 
and Mrs M were provided at renewal was transparent.
Mr and Mrs M appear to believe Tesco ought to have told them they could obtain insurance 
cheaper online. But Im satisfied it gave appropriate warnings in its correspondence that 
cheaper insurance might be available elsewhere  I dont think it needed to be any more 
specific than this and our service wouldnt expect an insurer to specify how a policyholder 
could obtain a cheaper policy elsewhere.
Finally, Mr and Mrs M told Tesco and our service that theyre unhappy that their claims 
history may have caused an increase in the policy premium. They said the value of the claim 
recorded had been unfairly inflated as a result of the work undertaken by the repairers Tesco 
had appointed. As our investigator explained to Mr and Mrs M, this part of their complaint 
hasnt been referred to our service. So, it isnt something I can comment on within this 
decision.
I realise Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with this decision. I appreciate that theyve been 
with Tesco for a number of years and feels its taken advantage of their loyalty as a result of 
them being longstanding customers. But, for the reasons outlined above, I dont think that 
happened here. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Tesco increased the price of 
their premiums unfairly. And I dont think it treated Mr and Mrs M differently from any other 
consumer in their position, which, as Ive already explained, is the main test of fairness we 
use. Im therefore not going to direct it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman