DRN-2165417
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
The PPI was sold as part of a package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) 
when Mr and Mrs H took out a further advance on their mortgage in 2003. The PPI part of 
the policy covered them for accident, sickness and unemployment. The plan also included 
life insurance and critical illness cover. Ive only considered the PPI element of the plan here.
The PPI would have protected Mr and Mrs Hs monthly mortgage payments if either of them 
was off sick, or if they lost their job. Mr and Mrs H paid a monthly premium for the PPI. When 
the policy started, the benefit of the PPI cover was split equally between Mr and Mrs H. So it 
would have paid 50% of the full monthly benefit if either of them had made a successful 
claim. It looks as if the policy was amended at a later date so that the PPI only covered 
Mr H. After that, the full monthly benefit would have been paid if Mr H had made a 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have told us there was no mention of them taking out PPI. They say the 
cover was added without their knowledge. And they say they were happy to have life 
cover, but they didnt require PPI. 
Halifax no longer has all the documentation that Mr and Mrs H signed when they took out 
the mortgage or the further advance. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given 
how long ago these events took place. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the 
information I have. 
Ive seen Mr and Mrs Hs application for the further advance. It includes a section about 
PPI. Theres a note on it to say that TMPP had been quoted for separately. Ive taken 
into account what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, and the 
documents weve seen in the past. And Im satisfied that the paperwork in these cases 
made it clear that the PPI was optional. Im also satisfied, on balance, that Mr and Mrs H 
would have had a complete a separate application for the TMPP, and that PPI would 
only have been included in the plan if theyd indicated that they wanted it. 
Overall, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs H decided to take out PPI because they 
wanted the benefit of the protection it offered. But I can understand how they may no 
longer remember this, so long after the event.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. Based on what we know about 
the way these sales took place at the time, I think thats likely to be right. This is to 
Mr and Mrs Hs advantage, as it means Halifax had a responsibility to check that it was 
suitable for them. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time. 
If Mr or Mrs H had made a successful claim under the policy for accident or sickness, it 
would have covered 50% of the monthly benefit for up to 24 months per successful 
claim. Although Mr and Mrs H have told us they were both entitled to relatively generous 
benefits from their employers, 24 months is significantly longer than either of them would 
have been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same level of benefit if 
either of them had made a successful claim for unemployment. Whats more, the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to any payments that Mr and Mrs H received from 
their employers. So they could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses. 
Ive also borne in mind that the mortgage was a significant, long-term financial 
commitment, secured on Mr and Mrs Hs property, and the consequences of not keeping 
up with their monthly mortgage payments could have been serious. So I think the 
PPI could have been useful to Mr and Mrs H, particularly as theyve told us that aside 
from payments from their employers, they didnt have any other means to fall back on if 
theyd been off sick, or if theyd lost their job.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that they chose to 
take out the PPI. So they appear to have wanted this type of cover, even if theyve 
understandably forgotten this now, so many years later. And based on what theyve told 
us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have been 
affected by any of the policys main exclusions and limitations. 
From the further advance application form, it looks as if Mr and Mrs H were given a 
separate quote for the PPI. So I think its likely that they knew how much theyd have to 
pay for it. But even if Halifax could have given Mr and Mrs H clearer information about 
the cost of the policy, it was competitively priced and Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
Mr and Mrs H couldnt afford it. The policy provided a good level of cover. And as they 
were paying for it monthly, they could have cancelled it at any time with no further cost if 
their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr and Mrs H off taking it out.Ive taken account of all Mr and Mrs Hs comments, including what theyve said about not 
having been told they could buy a PPI policy elsewhere. But Halifax wasnt obliged to 
provide information about policies that may have been available from other providers. So 
this doesnt change my conclusion that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman