DRN-2585737
The complaint
Ms B complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called PDL
Finance Limited, trading at the time as Mr Lender. Ms B says she was lent to irresponsibly
and the loans caused her financial problems.
We now know that Ms B took out 10 loans from Mr Lender between September 2010 and
August 2013.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this case in January 2021, setting out why I 
thought the complaint should be partially upheld, albeit to a slightly lesser extent than had 
been recommended by our adjudicator. I said loan numbers 4  10 should never have been 
provided as they were unsustainable. That PD should be read in conjunction with this 
decision. 
I then asked both parties to provide any further submissions or information to me within one 
month. 
In my PD, I said that I didnt think loans 1, 2 or 3 were unsustainable for Ms B and I 
explained why this was. By loan number 4, however, I noted how the amounts being lent to 
Ms B had increased quite a bit. I explained this caused the repayments from this point 
onwards to form such a proportion of Ms Bs disposable income as to be problematic and 
risky. From loan number 4 onwards I therefore said all the loans were all unsustainable. 
I also said in my PD that from the point of loan number 8 onwards, an emerging pattern of 
repeated lending had become clear: Ms B wasnt merely borrowing to deal with short-term 
cash-flow problems; she was borrowing regularly, to address shortfalls in her income and to 
meet an ongoing need. Ms B was having to consistently take out high interest, short-term 
lending over a sustained period and the indebtedness caused by this type of borrowing was 
harmful, in my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems that following my PD, neither party wants to send in any new information or 
arguments. However, Ms B said she was broadly happy with decision. So, theres no reason 
for me to change any of the findings I set out in my PD. And as Ive comprehensively 
explained my rationale Im not going to go in to any more detail.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Ms B, Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Ms B paid on loan numbers 4 - 10;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges on these 
from the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation loans 4 
 7;
the number of loans taken from loan 8 onwards (loans 8 -10) means any 
information recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans 8 - 10 
should be completely removed from Ms Bs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Ms B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold Ms Bs complaint and require PDL Finance Limited to pay the 
compensation as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman