DRN-3199008
The complaint
Mr T and Ms O complain about the way that Skipton Building Society dealt with an 
application for a further advance on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr T had a mortgage with Skipton. In July 2020, he applied to add Ms O to the mortgage 
and to raise some additional borrowing to fund an extension. They said that the company 
that underwrote the structural warranty of their home had gone bust  so Skipton required 
them to obtain a new warranty.
Mr T and Ms O said they spent a significant amount of time sourcing and arranging a new 
warranty  and that the process was extremely complex and expensive, with little support 
from Skipton. They arranged a new warranty on 17 September 2020. But when they went 
back to Skipton it had cancelled the application. Mr T and Ms O said they were left with no 
choice but to start the work on their property due to their personal circumstances, funded by 
their savings.
Mr T and Ms O said that they had to chase Skipton once the second application had 
completed  and they didnt receive the funds until 21 January 2021. And then Skipton 
collected two payments - for both the old and new mortgage. Although it was refunded after 
a complaint.
Mr T and Ms O complain that Skipton:
Handled the application badly and didnt treat them well.
Failed to identify the issues with the warranty during the interview  if it had then they 
could have made an informed choice about whether to proceed or if there was a solution 
at ana earlier stage.
Ignored their initial complaint.
Gave them incorrect information  for example it told them the application had been 
placed on hold when in fact it had been cancelled.
Forced them to take this product because Mr T would have had to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC) to use another lender. This is mis-selling by proxy.
Communicated poorly.
Took an incorrect amount for the first repayment.
 The investigator said that Skiptons offer of £200 was fair.
Mr T and Ms O didnt accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
The compensation wasnt fair.
The investigator hadnt acknowledged how difficult it was to obtain a structural warranty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It would be unusual in my experience for a lender to ask questions about a structural 
warranty on a property during the early stages of a mortgage application. That is something 
that would usually only come to light during underwriting or conveyancing, which is what 
happened here.
Skipton was entitled to cancel the application when it found out there was no structural 
warranty in place. This was a legitimate commercial judgment that it made about the risk. It 
was entitled to make such a decision as there was an increase in borrowing here. I accept 
that it was a stressful and daunting experience for Mr T and Ms O to sort out a new structural 
warranty. But it was for Skipton to decide whether it needed a new retrospective warranty or 
not. I dont consider that it could fairly be required to compensate Mr T and Ms O for the 
stress and inconvenience they suffered in arranging the new structural warranty. 
Nor could I say that Skipton was responsible for Mr T and Ms Os builders starting work 
before the mortgage was in place. It was their decision to proceed before they had a 
mortgage offer. Of course, I understand the urgency of the matter for them, but that was not 
as a result of any failure by Skipton. 
When Mr T took out the mortgage originally he agreed to the ERC. That was his decision. 
Skipton did not guarantee that it would approve further borrowing in the future. So there was 
always a risk that Mr T would be left with the choice of staying as he was or incurring an 
ERC to move lender if Skipton could not lend him the amount he needed. But I dont 
consider this was as a result of Skipton acting unfairly or unreasonably.
I accept there has been a breakdown in communication here in respect of both the 
application and the complaint handling. It seems there was some avoidable confusion about 
whether the application was on hold or cancelled and a delay of around two months. When 
the application was restarted in November 2020, it was progressed in a reasonable 
timescale, bearing in mind the amount borrowed had increased.
Skipton has explained it collected the direct debits for both the old and new mortgages 
because the direct debits had been requested for both mortgages before the funds were 
used to repay the existing mortgage. It has accepted it made a mistake, apologised and put 
things right quickly.
It isnt in dispute that Skipton could have handled this application better than it did. But Mr T 
and Ms O have told us that the distress and inconvenience they suffered was largely as a 
result of sourcing a new structural warranty and the work on their home. But for the reasons 
Ive explained, neither of those things were as a result of any error by Skipton. So I cant tell 
it to compensate them for that.
Looking at what did happen, in all the circumstances, I consider Skiptons offer of £200 fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience its handling of the matter caused to Mr T and Ms O.My final decision
Skipton Building Society  has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Skipton Building Society 
should pay Mr T and Ms O £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman