DRN-3638769
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D complained Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (Legal & General) 
unfairly declined Mrs Ds Permanent and Total Disability claim under their critical illness 
policy.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs and Mr D took out a Decreasing Term Assurance with Critical Illness Cover policy (the 
policy) with Legal & General in July 2002. The policy was set to run for 24 years and 
provided cover in the event either Mrs or Mr D died or suffered a critical illness during the 
policy term. It also provided Permanent and Total Disability cover (PTD). 
Mrs D contacted Legal & General in February 2019 to make a claim for PTD benefit as she 
said she was unfit to work due to a series of health problems. Legal & General explained 
that as Mrs D had not been in gainful employment prior to her claim, in accordance with the 
policy terms, her claim would be assessed on her ability to perform four or more defined 
functions. It declined the claim as it said the evidence didnt support Mrs D met the relevant 
definition of PTD.  
Mrs D referred a complaint to this Service. She said Legal & General had unfairly declined 
her claim and had assessed it against the wrong criteria. She said shed worked for her 
husbands company before being fully incapacitated, so she said she should be assessed on 
her ability to work in any occupation ever again. 
One of our Ombudsman considered the complaint and concluded Legal & General had 
acted fairly. The Ombudsman was satisfied Legal & General had fairly considered the claim 
under the functions definition, as the evidence supported that Mrs D had not been in gainful 
employment since 2002. While the Ombudsman noted Mrs Ds symptoms started much 
earlier, she was persuaded the earliest Mrs D could be considered incapacitated was 
March 2017. This was the date Mrs D started claiming Employment Support Allowance 
(ESA) and by her own admission was too poorly to go to work. The Ombudsman wasnt 
persuaded the evidence demonstrated that Mrs D was unable to perform four or more of the 
listed functions. She also noted there were treatment options that remained open to Mrs D. 
So, she was satisfied Legal & General was entitled to turn down the claim. 
Mrs D asked Legal & General to consider further evidence relating to her employment 
history to support that she had been working prior to her disability. Legal & General 
considered the additional evidence but didnt change its conclusions. So, Mrs D referred a 
second complaint to our Service. She disagreed with L&Gs decision to assess her claim 
under the functions definition and maintained shed been employed in April 2017 and should 
therefore be assessed on her ability to carry out any occupation. 
Another one of our Ombudsmen considered the complaint and concluded Legal & General 
had acted fairly. She wasnt persuaded the evidence Mrs D had provided was enough to 
show shed been in gainful employment before the onset of her disability, so she thought 
Legal & General had acted fairly by considering her claim against the functions definition. 
The Ombudsman also wasnt persuaded the additional medical evidence Mrs D had 
provided demonstrated that she couldnt perform four or more of the listed functions. 
Mrs D contacted Legal & General again in May 2021 and asked that it consider a PTD claim 
backdated to 2005, when she said she last worked. Legal & General refused. It noted 
inconsistencies in what Mrs D had said about her work history, and said the evidence didnt 
support the symptoms she was experiencing in 2005 would have prevented her from being 
able to work in any occupation ever again. It said this was supported by the fact Mrs D had 
said she was able to work for her husband in later years (even though this wasnt considered 
to be a gainful occupation for the purposes of the policy). It said, in line with what our 
Ombudsman have previously said, it wasnt prepared to consider any claim before 
March 2017, when she first sought to claim ESA. But Legal & General arranged for Mrs D to 
have an independent medical examination (IME) so her current ability to perform the listed 
functions could be independently assessed. Legal & General also accepted that it hadnt 
handled her claim as well as it should have, so it offered her £350 compensation.
Mrs D underwent an IME in December 2021. The report concluded that while Mrs D clearly 
struggled daily due to her complex medical problems, she was not unable to perform four or 
more of the functions. As such Legal & General declined the claim again. 
Mrs D complained to the Financial Ombudsman as she believed Legal & General had again 
unfairly declined her claim, this time from 2005. She said its reasons for doing so were also 
contradictory. She noted it had declined her original claim on the basis that she wasnt in 
gainful employment in 2017 but had said she couldnt claim from 2005 as she was later able 
to work. She explained the discrepancy with her employment history was simply an error 
when completing her original claim form. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied 
Legal & General had fairly declined Mrs Ds claims from 2005 and following her recent IME. 
She was also satisfied that Legal & General had offered Mrs and Mr D fair compensation for 
the failings in its claims handling.  
Mrs and Mr D disagreed and asked for their complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman 
for a final decision. Mrs D explained that while shed been able to complete some minor 
administrative tasks for her husbands company in later years, the last time she was able to 
work was 2005. After that she was unable to travel to work, work regular hours or even 
regular days. She noted that shed been awarded the higher rate of Personal Independence 
Payment (PIP) for both mobility and daily living elements. She also noted some of the 
problems shed had with her healthcare. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mrs Ds various diagnoses as well as the difficulties shes faced while 
pursuing her claim. Despite my sympathy, I cant order Legal & General to pay a claim 
unless theres clear evidence to show the policy terms and conditions have been met in full. I 
have to be fair and objective to both parties. Having reviewed this file carefully, I am not 
upholding this complaint. 
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs and Mr D. I dont underestimate the 
significance this decision will have on their life and want to reassure them that I havent taken this decision lightly. But for the reasons Ill explain I dont think Legal & General has 
acted unfairly, so I cant ask it to accept this claim. 
I think its important that I set out clearly what I can and cant consider as part of this 
decision. As the Financial Ombudsman Service has already considered two of Mrs Ds 
earlier complaints those issues are treated as resolved. As such, I wont be considering 
which definition Mrs Ds recent claim should be considered against, as this has been fairly 
concluded by my Ombudsmen colleagues. My review has therefore focused on two issues, 
whether Legal & General should reasonably have accepted a backdated claim to 2005, and 
if not, whether the latest medical evidence supports that Mrs D is currently permanently and 
totally disabled, as defined in the policy terms. 
Backdated claim to 2005
Mrs D asked Legal & General to consider a new claim on the basis that she felt shed been 
permanently and totally incapacitated since 2005, when she left her last employment. 
Legal & General said that, as well as having questions about Mrs Ds employment history, 
the medical evidence didnt support that the symptoms she was experiencing at the time 
would have prevented her from working in any capacity ever again. I think its conclusions 
were reasonable. 
If it were accepted that Mrs D was in gainful employment prior to 2005, although there 
remain doubts over this point, the relevant policy definition of PTD is:
If the Life Assured, before age 65, is engaged in a gainful occupation immediately before 
the onset of disability and is, by reason of sickness or accident, totally unable to follow any 
occupation and in the opinion of Legal & General is likely to remain so permanently. Such 
decision will be based on all the medical evidence available.
While its evident from the available medical records that Mrs Ds ill-health dates back many 
years, its not clear that she was permanently or totally incapacitated due to her ill-health as 
far back as 2005. 
I can see from the medical evidence that Mrs D was diagnosed with iron deficiency anaemia 
in October 2005, and that this caused her tiredness, some breathlessness but this alone 
would not be enough to show that she was totally or permanently incapable of working in 
any occupation ever again. 
I cant see any objective evidence from the time to show Mrs D was totally unable to follow 
any occupation due to her health, although undoubtedly it was causing her difficulties. I think 
its also significant that the Ombudsman who considered Mrs Ds first complaint concluded 
that her incapacity could only be considered from 2017 and that various treatment options 
remained open to Mrs D in 2020, which meant her incapacity couldnt be deemed 
permanent. It therefore follows that her condition couldnt have been permanent in 2005, as 
treatment options were still being considered 15 years later. 
I think its also significant that Mrs D had previously described her problems as starting much 
later than 2005. In an email to L&G from August 2021, chasing an update to her claim, 
Mrs D said As I have said many times my problems began in 2010 when I was diagnosed 
with Pernicious Anemia. 
In view of all the evidence, and while Im sympathetic to the fact that Mrs D has clearly been 
struggling with her health for many years, I cant conclude the evidence supports a 
successful PTD claim from 2005. So, I cant say Legal & General has treated Mrs and Mr D unfairly by declining the claim. 
Claim assessment following IME
Legal & General arranged for Mrs D to have an IME to assess her abilities in line with the 
functions test set out in the policy:
If the Life Assured, before age 65 is not in gainful occupation immediately before the onset 
of disability, and suffers through illness or accident, a mental or physical irreversible 
disability, which in the opinion of The Chief Medical Officer of Legal & General, results in the 
Life Assured being permanently unable to perform, without the direct assistance of another 
person, four or more of the following functions:
i. mobility - the ability to move from one room to another adjoining room or from one 
side of a room to another to get in and out of bed or a chair without requiring physical 
assistance of another person
ii. continence - the ability to voluntarily control bowel and bladder functions such as to 
maintain personal hygiene
iii. dressing or undressing self - putting on or taking off all necessary items of clothing 
without requiring assistance of another person
iv. washing and bathing self - washing or bathing to the extent needed to maintain 
personal cleanliness without requiring assistance of another person
v. eating - all tasks of getting food into the body once it has been prepared
vi. toileting - getting to and from the toilet, transferring on or off the toilet and associated 
personal hygiene
The Occupational Therapist (Ms C) that carried out the assessment in December 2021 
concluded that Mrs D was able to perform all key areas of Activities of Daily Living as per 
her policy, albeit with some difficulties. Given that Ms C was able to observe Mrs D carrying 
out many of these activities, I consider her evidence carries significant weight. As such I 
think Legal & General was fair to rely on this evidence to decline the claim. 
I appreciate Mrs Ds GP had suggested that her various health conditions impacted on her 
day-to-day activities. But the evidence wasnt enough to prove she was totally unable to 
perform four or more of the functions. 
While its clear Mrs D has a complex medical history, which sadly impacts on her daily 
activities and quality of life, the evidence doesnt support that she meets the policy definition 
of PTD. So, I cant say Legal & General acted unfairly by declining her claim.   
Legal & Generals claims handling
Legal & General accepts that it didnt manage Mrs Ds request for a further claims 
assessment as well as it should have. There were delays in requesting and then chasing 
further medical evidence. There were also errors in its correspondence. I think its likely this 
caused Mrs D unnecessary and avoidable upset and frustration. Particularly as her claim 
had been ongoing for some time and given that she was unwell. But I consider 
Legal & Generals offer of £350 is fair compensation for this. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman