DRN-3698776
The complaint
Mr G has complained about how Utmost Life and Pension Limited (Utmost) dealt with his 
lump sum withdrawal request. Utmost didnt act as it was instructed, and Mr G missed out on 
a tax-free lump sum withdrawal. Mr G wants to be compensated for this. 
What happened
In 2020 Mr G wanted to withdraw a tax-free lump sum from his flexible drawdown plan and 
instructed annual tax-free lump sum withdrawals of £43,000 for the following four years. 
The first payment was made in March 2021. In 2022 Mr G wanted to alter the amount of 
withdrawal to £10,000. He completed the withdrawal form but during a phone call on          
28 February 2022 was advised that he hadnt completed both parts of the two-part 
withdrawal form and that the payment of £43,000 was still in the process of being issued on 
25 March. Mr G said to allow that payment to go through and then for the withdrawal 
instruction of £43,000 to be cancelled. But the payment wasnt made as Utmost hadnt 
received the relevant payment forms.  
Mr G wasnt happy and complained to Utmost. It didnt uphold his complaint. It said;
During the call of 28 February 2022 Mr G had been advised that Utmost would 
require a completed cash lump sum and regular payment form and a payment reply 
form to make the payment.
A letter had been sent to Mr G on the same day confirming the regular payments of 
£43,000 had been cancelled and enclosed the forms he would need to complete.
Mr G had called again on 1 March to confirm he wished to take a single income 
payment of £43,000 and he was told he would need to return a completed cash lump 
sum and regular payment form. But the form wasnt received by Utmost, so no 
payment was made. 
Mr G didnt agree. His recollection of the phone call was different. He wasnt happy with the 
outcome and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
She accepted there may have been some confusion about the requests and changed 
instructions, but Utmost couldnt process the payment without the completed 
application. 
Mr G had been through the process before and ought to have expected to do so 
again in line with the business agreed terms and conditions. 
Utmost had sent Mr G a letter which Mr G didnt open it as he thought the withdrawal 
was organised. But it wasnt unfair of Utmost to write to Mr G and expect him to read 
the letter.
Utmost had acted in line with its processes, and it wasnt for this service to interfere 
with a business procedures.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigator. He was concerned that Utmost hadnt been able to 
provide call recordings as they had been referred to in conversations he had with Utmost. 
His recollection was that during his call of 28 February he asked for the £43,000 withdrawal 
to proceed on 25 March and for it to be cancelled after that.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Utmost hasnt been able to provide recordings of the calls that took place on 28 February or 
1 March but it has been able to provide us with its notes for all of the calls had with Mr G. I 
note there were several requests for changes to both the annual regular payments as well as 
ad hoc payments. From the call notes provided by Utmost and relevant to this complaint, Ive 
listed below a timeline of what happened;
28 February 2022  At 15.03 Utmost called Mr G as it still needed a correctly 
completed payment form to amend his regular payment to £10,000 plus an ad hoc 
payment of £10,000. Utmost was to send the form by first class post. The phone note 
goes onto say Agreed to stop £43k income due March 2022. 
At 15.30  Utmost spoke with Mr G. He wanted to switch into a less risky investment. 
Later Mr G Mr G called Utmost as he wanted the annual payment of £43,000 to be 
paid as soon as possible as he was concerned about market movements. He gave a 
revised income instruction and asked for previous ones to be ignored. He wanted the 
annual payment of £43,000 which was due in March.
A letter of confirmation of the amended instructions was sent to Mr G on the same 
day.
1 March 2022  During a call to Mr G an ad hoc payment of £43,000 was agreed and 
discussed. Utmost could make the payment once it had received the payment form it 
was to send to him. The call note says Currently, client just wants an ad hoc of £43k 
with no income. 
It was this payment instruction form that was never received so no payment was 
made. 
On the same day Utmost had received the earlier payment form from Mr G stating he 
wanted to take a single payment of £10,000 and amend the regular payment to 
£10,000. As the form had been completed prior to this later amended request it was 
agreed during the call that this earlier instruction would be disregarded, and Mr G 
would send in a new payment form with his new instructions. 
12 April 2022  At 13.59 Mr G called Utmost and said he had returned his ad hoc 
payment form for £43,000 but Utmost said it hadnt been received. A new payment 
pack was sent to him by first class post. Utmosts note of the call says, Please note, 
the income payment was stopped on Mr [Gs] instruction & my letter of 28/02/22 
confirmed this.At 15.34 Mr G called Utmost as he had been expecting a payment of £43,000 around 
25 March. He was advised that his instruction had been cancelled. Mr G said this 
wasnt correct. 
Mr G called again at 16.30 disputing the letter that had been sent to him on             
28 February but which he said he had only opened that day.
I appreciate that Mr G doesnt agree with Utmosts records about the phone calls, and he is 
unhappy the recordings cannot be retrieved. Clearly having those call recordings would have 
been very useful when considering this complaint and Ive borne this in mind when reviewing 
the complaint file. And I dont doubt Mr Gs recollection of what was said during those calls 
but equally I dont think it is unreasonable of me to review the contemporaneous phone 
notes that were made by Utmost at the time of those calls. And I think it is unlikely that those 
call notes have been altered since they were made. 
But I have also considered other records available and not just the phone notes. 
Clearly there was some confusion during the calls, and I think a misunderstanding may have 
arisen during the calls of 28 February. After the first call the phone note says Agreed to stop 
£43k income due March 2022. But I dont think Mr G was aware of this as evidenced by his 
later call of the same day to say he wanted the March 2022 payment of £43,000 to be paid 
as soon as possible because of his concerns about the stock market. 
This suggests to me that Mr G was under the impression the £43,000 instruction was still in 
place as he went onto ask that the previously talked about instructions  the amendment to a 
£10,000 regular payment and the ad hoc payment of £10,000  be ignored. 
Clearly, I cant know for sure what was said and agreed during those calls, but I think it most 
likely this is where the confusion came about. Mr G wanted to continue with the regular 
£43,000 payment which he told us he understood was going ahead as usual and that Utmost 
would ignore his earlier call to amend instruction payments.
Even if I am right about this point and that a misunderstanding had arisen, while I could 
solely make a finding on the balance of probabilities, I think its only right I consider this in 
the context of the other evidence that is available. 
After the calls of 28 February 2022 Utmost wrote to Mr G on the same day to confirm what 
was discussed during those calls. The letter said; 
You have chosen to receive regular withdrawals of £10,000 before tax per annum, 
payable to you yearly started 25 March 2022. You have also chosen to receive a 
one-off lump sum of £10,000 before tax. 
Further correspondence said;
Your regular payments of GBP43,000 paid annually from 25 March 2022 have been 
cancelled with immediate effect. Enclosed with this letter is a revised projection of 
benefits showing the effect of the proposed reduction to your regular income, to 
GBP10,000 annually and the single income payment of GBP10,000 
Mr G needed to return the payment reply form and the cash lump sum and regular income 
payment form. 
Unfortunately, Mr G didnt open that letter until 12 April 2022. Even though I appreciate that 
Mr G has told us the reason for that was because he thought everything was in order, I cant find that Utmost was at fault. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Utmost to have written 
to Mr G with the expectation that he would read the letter upon receipt. 
Mr G is adamant that Utmost didnt carry out the instructions he gave during his phone calls 
and as Ive outlined above, I think it most likely there was a misunderstanding during those 
calls. But as Ive already said, bearing in mind the conflicting testimony and phone notes, it 
would be difficult for me to solely make a finding of who was at fault without consideration of 
all of the facts surrounding this complaint. 
The correspondence of 28 February made clear what Utmost understood from the calls and 
the instruction that Mr G had given. If Mr G had opened that letter at an earlier date, he 
would have discovered that Utmosts understanding wasnt a reflection of what he wanted. 
So irrespective of the call notes  and in the absence of the actual recordings  Im satisfied 
that Utmost did inform Mr G of the action it would be taking for the income payments from 
his plan. If it had misunderstood his instruction and an error had been made, that could have 
been corrected at the time and payment could have completed.
I accept the point that Mr G has made that it would have been unlikely for him to have not 
taken advantage of the annual lump sum tax exemption. And the phone notes from 
subsequent calls suggest that he was under the impression that payment was being made 
as during the follow up call of 1 March an ad-hoc payment of £43,000 was discussed and 
agreed. 
But I think at this time Mr G was referring to his usual regular payment which he thought was 
still in place. However, Utmosts records show that the regular income payment of £43,000 
had been stopped, which I think is why it referred to the payment as being an ad hoc 
payment rather than a regular payment in the later call. However, for that payment to be 
made  now that it was an ad hoc payment  Mr G would need to complete and return 
further forms. And those forms werent received so no payment was made. 
And on the same day, Utmost had received Mr Gs amended instruction forms for the regular 
payment of £10,000 and an ad hoc payment of £10,000 but as a result of the call, it was 
agreed that instruction should be ignored, hence that payment not being made either. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont find that Utmost has done anything wrong. While 
I think there was a misunderstanding during the calls Mr G had, Im satisfied that 
misunderstanding would have been corrected if Mr G had opened the letter of 28 February. 
But as that letter wasnt opened and any error corrected or Mr G returning any completed 
payment form sent to him on 1 March, I dont agree that Utmost has been unfair in its 
treatment of Mr G.
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint and I wont be asking Utmost to do anything 
more.
Its clear that Mr G feels strongly about his complaint and no doubt he will be disappointed 
by my decision. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I reached that decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 Catherine Langley
Ombudsman