DRN-2351235
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy which Mrs R took out in connection 
with a mortgage in 1995.
The PPI initially cost around £34 per month. It would have paid a monthly benefit of £490 for 
up to 36 months per successful claim for accident or sickness, and for up to 12 months per 
successful claim for unemployment. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she said 
that Mrs R had a long-term medical condition when she took the policy out, and she wouldnt 
have been able to claim successfully on the policy if shed been unable to work as a result of 
that condition. So she didnt think Santander should have recommended the policy to Mrs R.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R 
and to Santander on 6 October 2020. I summarise my findings:
It isnt in dispute that Mrs R realised that the PPI was optional. Shes explained that she 
wanted to take the cover to protect her mortgage payments and monthly costs in case of 
unemployment. She says shed previously thought she couldnt have the PPI, due to her 
medical condition, but she was pleased to learn that she could, in fact, take out the 
insurance, although it would exclude sickness cover for her condition.
Mrs R and Santander agree that Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs R. This meant 
Santander had a responsibility to check that the PPI was suitable for Mrs R. But I didnt 
think it was unsuitable, based on what Mrs Rs told us about her circumstances at the 
time.
Mrs Rs told us shed have been entitled to between three and six months pay from her 
employer at the time if shed been off sick. If shed made a successful claim on the 
policy, it would potentially have paid out for significantly longer than shed have been 
entitled to sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay that Mrs R received from her employer. So she could have used that to 
meet other expenses. And she wouldnt have had to use her savings to meet her 
monthly mortgage payments.
I acknowledged that Mrs R wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim for her 
on-going medical condition under the policy. But she was aware of this when she took 
out the policy. Mrs Rs provided a copy of a letter she enclosed with the PPI application 
form. She explained that, for safetys sake, shed checked with the insurer that she was 
eligible for the PPI, and the insurer had confirmed that she was, although the policy 
would exclude any benefit relating to her medical condition.
I didnt know exactly what was said at the meeting when Mrs R discussed her mortgage 
and PPI requirements with Santander. It seemed likely, judging by the letter Id referred 
to, that Mrs Rs medical condition was discussed, and Mrs R followed up the discussion 
by contacting the insurer to check the position. But even if Santander didnt discuss 
Mrs Rs medical condition with her, I couldnt fairly say that shed lost out as a result. 
This was because it was apparent that Mrs R knew that she wouldnt be able to make a 
successful claim on the policy if she needed time off work due to her on-going medical 
condition. But she decided to go ahead and take the policy in any event. That is a 
decision that she was free to make. So I couldnt fairly uphold the complaint on the basis 
on which the adjudicator recommended that it should be upheld.
I noted, however, that Mrs Rs main reason for asserting that the policy was mis-sold is 
not related to her medical condition. Shes explained that she discovered when she was 
made redundant that she couldnt make a claim on the PPI because she hadnt signed 
on at a Job Centre, and that was required for a claim to be processed. She says that at 
no point during her meeting with Santander was this requirement mentioned, nor was it 
mentioned on the leaflet she was given about the cover before she applied. And she 
says that if shed been told about the requirement, she wouldnt have taken out the 
policy.
Id thought carefully about this point. But being registered as unemployed was a common 
condition for making an unemployment claim, and was used in many PPI policies. I didnt 
consider it to have been particularly onerous. It was usual for anyone wishing to make an 
unemployment claim to have to register as unemployed. It's one of the ways an insurer 
has of checking that someone's both genuinely out of work and actively looking for work. 
And while I understood that Mrs R might have preferred not to register with the 
unemployment service, it would, nonetheless, have been open to her to do so.
The policy included detailed terms and conditions. Santander couldnt reasonably have 
been expected to highlight all of them to Mrs R. And I didnt think it would have been 
unreasonable of Santander not to anticipate that Mrs R might not be willing to register 
with the unemployment service. So I wasnt persuaded that I could fairly conclude that 
Santander failed in its duty to check that the policy was suitable for Mrs R if it failed to 
draw her attention specifically to this condition. And while Id thought carefully about what 
Mrs R has said, I didnt think this was sufficient reason to uphold the complaint.
I acknowledged that it was possible that Santander didnt point out the main things the 
policy didnt cover. But from what Id seen, aside from the exclusion of cover for Mrs Rs 
existing medical condition - which Id discussed above - she didnt appear to have been 
affected by any of these.
Id borne in mind that the mortgage was a long-term financial commitment, secured on 
Mrs Rs home, and the consequences of falling behind with her mortgage payments 
could have been serious. Mrs Rs mentioned that she wanted the PPI to protect her 
mortgage payments, and I was satisfied that it could have been useful to her.It may be that Santander could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But the policy was competitively priced and provided a good level of cover. So I thought 
it was unlikely that clearer information about the cost would have put Mrs R off taking it. 
And since she was paying for the PPI monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time 
without further cost if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no longer 
wanted the cover.
I was sorry to disappoint Mrs R. It was clear that she feels strongly that the policy 
shouldnt have been sold to her. But for the reasons Id sent out, I didnt think that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Further submissions
Santander hasnt commented on my provisional decision. But Mrs R has provided extensive 
further comments.
Mrs R says I missed the point of her complaint. Shes dissatisfied that I spent what she 
considers to have been unnecessary time focussing on the medical issue. Shes also 
commented that she considers various parts of my provisional decision to be irrelevant, as 
they involved things that she never complained about. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ill deal first with what Mrs R has said about her medical condition being irrelevant. 
I understand and accept that Mrs R didnt complain that her medical condition made the 
policy unsuitable for her. But our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld 
because Mrs R wouldnt have been able to claim successfully on the policy if shed been 
unable to work as a result of that condition. I issued a provisional decision because 
I disagreed with the adjudicators conclusion. And I needed to explain why. 
As Ive mentioned above, Mrs Rs also commented that she believes various other aspects 
of my provisional decision to have been irrelevant, because they related to aspects of the 
sale that she hadnt complained about  for example, whether it was made clear that the PPI 
was optional. But in reaching my provisional decision, I looked at all aspects of the suitability 
of the policy for Mrs R. I considered the arguments that Mrs R herself had put forward. But 
having decided that I didnt find that the policy had been mis-sold on those particular 
grounds, I also considered whether there was any other reason that I thought the policy was 
mis-sold.
Mrs Rs reiterated that she had savings when she took out the mortgage and PPI, and could 
have used those to meet her monthly mortgage payments in the absence of redundancy pay 
from her employer. But Ive borne in mind that Mrs R had chosen to protect her savings by 
not taking out a smaller mortgage. As I said in my provisional decision, having the PPI policy 
would have meant that she didnt have to use her savings to make her mortgage payments. 
She could have continued to keep hold of them, or used them to meet other expenses if 
shed lost her job. So I dont think the fact that Mrs R had savings made the policy unsuitable 
for her.I turn now to Mrs Rs central assertion - that the policy was mis-sold because it wasnt made 
clear to her that shed have to register as unemployed in order to claim for unemployment. 
She says it was only when she received a claim form after being made redundant and 
waiting until the 12-week waiting period had ended that she discovered the requirement to 
sign on at a Job Centre. She says she hadnt even thought of doing that, as shed thought 
shed get some kind of payment from the PPI policy. Shes explained that she didnt pursue 
the claim because she didnt want to sign on. She says signing-on was just not something 
I would ever have done. And she says if the requirement had been made clear, she 
wouldnt have taken out the policy.
Mrs R says that as a lay person she didnt know this requirement was standard in many PPI 
policies. She says that just telling the consumer that theres a 12-week waiting period to 
make an unemployment claim, without emphasising the need to start a critical process upon 
which any claim is contingent constitutes a failing to clearly explain or highlight the policys 
significant exclusions and limitations. She considers that Santander failed to to highlight a 
key exclusion that would result in my not getting the benefit I thought I was paying for, i.e. 
being able to make a claim without registering as unemployed. 
Ive thought about what Mrs R has said. But I disagree. As I commented in my provisional 
decision, the policy included detailed terms and conditions. Santander couldnt reasonably 
have been expected to highlight all of them to Mrs R. I accept that Mrs R may have been 
reluctant or unwilling to register as unemployed. But I dont think it would have been 
unreasonable of Santander not to anticipate this. And if it didnt draw Mrs Rs attention to the 
requirement, I dont accept that this amounted, as Mrs R suggests, to a failure to highlight a 
significant exclusion or limitation. 
Mrs R has also commented that the information sheet about the policy which she was given 
when she applied for the PPI included a section on eligibility. In that section, it said that if a 
self-employed person became unemployed, they would, among other things, have to register 
with the Department of Employment in order to be covered by the policy. Shes commented 
that theres no mention of that in the bullet point that highlighted the requirement to be in full-
time employment or working at least 16 hours per week. Ive considered this point. But the 
bullet point about being in employment didnt mention the requirements for making an 
unemployment claim at all. And I dont think it could reasonably have been inferred from this 
that thered be no particular requirements for an employee to make an unemployment claim, 
or that an employee wouldnt need to register with the unemployment service.
The information sheet that Mrs Rs referred to said that full details of the terms and 
conditions of cover were available in the certificate of insurance, which would be sent to the 
policyholder if they took out the PPI. I think its likely that Mrs R received this, and if shed 
been dissatisfied with any aspect of the policy, she could have cancelled it.
Finally, Mrs R has commented that in my provisional decision I stated that I didnt expect to 
change my view, and that she believes that to be an erroneous foregone conclusion. 
I explained in my provisional decision that Id look at any more comments and evidence that 
I got by 9 November 2020, and that my final decision was likely to be along the lines set out 
in my provisional decision unless the information changes my mind. Mrs R provided further 
comments and Ive considered the complaint again alongside her further comments. I realise 
that Mrs R will be disappointed, but having done so, my view remains unchanged. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman