DRN-3702589
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about two life and critical illness policies sold by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. Mr and Mrs W believe that undisclosed commission, paid between Barclays and the 
insurer, was unfair and have referred to the Supreme Court judgment of Plevin against 
Paragon Personal Finance Ltd.  
Mr and Mrs W have asked that the premiums paid to both policies, along with interest, are 
refunded.  
Mr and Mrs W are represented in this complaint by their son, but for ease I have referred to 
all submissions as if they were made by Mr and Mrs W. 
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs W sought advice from Barclays and were advised to take out a joint life 
mortgage decreasing term assurance policy and a level term assurance policy. Both policies 
also included critical illness cover and were provided by an insurer who Ill refer to here as L. 
I understand the policies were taken out to cover borrowing that Mr and Mrs W had, so the 
borrowing would be repaid on their death or critical illness. 
A previous complaint about the suitability of the policies has already been concluded, so I 
will not comment on that further in this decision. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to Barclays about the potential unfairness caused by the payment 
of undisclosed commission between Barclays and L. Mr and Mrs W referred to the Supreme 
Court judgment of Plevin against Paragon Personal Finance Ltd and believe the same 
principles apply to the sale of their two policies. In summary, that the high level of 
undisclosed commission paid between the parties resulted in an unfair relationship and had 
Mrs Plevin known about the high levels of commission, she would not have agreed to take 
out the PPI policy. 
Barclays did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and amongst other things explained that 
the Plevin judgment only applied to PPI policies. And that in Mr and Mrs Ws case, 
commission was actually disclosed to them at the time of the sale. 
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to our service where it was considered by several 
investigators. Ultimately, they explained that they did not consider there were sufficient 
grounds to uphold the complaint as the commission details of both policies were set out to 
Mr and Mrs W at the time the policies were sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I believe I will disappoint Mr and Mrs W further as I have not upheld their 
complaint. The complaint here is that Mr and Mrs W believe they have been treated unfairly 
as a secret or undisclosed commission was paid between Barclays and the insurer. Mr and 
Mrs W have referred to the Supreme Court judgment of Plevin against Paragon Personal 
Finance Ltd, which essentially found there was an unfair relationship between Mrs Plevin 
and Paragon and this was caused by high levels of commission that werent disclosed to Mrs 
Plevin at the time. 
As one of the investigators who considered the case has already set out, a key element of 
the Plevin judgment is S140A of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA), which relates to unfair 
relationships. Where S140A applies it imposes certain requirements on a lender and may 
make them responsible for things said or done by a third party who is associated with the 
lending. S140A does not apply to all forms of lending and it is not clear if S140A does 
actually apply in this instance. 
However, I do not consider it necessary to make a determination on that point as it would not 
in my view change the outcome of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. And I should add that it is for a 
court to make a determination on S140A CCA and I am required to make a finding on what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs W complain about secret or undisclosed commission but the policy illustrations, 
for both policies, state, 
Your premiums pay for the cost of life cover, critical illness cover, remuneration, 
expenses, charges and other adjustments.   
The decreasing term assurance policy then states, 
How much will the advice cost? 
The cost of providing advice which includes paying your adviser and providing 
supporting services in respect of this contract is approximately £765.55 immediately, 
and then from month 49, £0.79 each month until the end of the plan. 
The amount will depend upon the size of the premium and the length of the term of 
the contract. It will be paid for out of the premiums.
The level term assurance policy illustration provides almost identical wording but refers to 
approximately £1,519.79 being paid immediately and £1.58 being paid from month 49. 
Unlike the circumstances of the Plevin judgment, where the commission amount was not 
disclosed to Mrs Plevin, it was actually set out to Mr and Mrs W in the policy illustrations. 
The policy illustrations do include a number of key features of the policies, but Im satisfied 
the commission information was clearly set out and should have been obvious to Mr and Mrs 
W upon reading the illustrations. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W have said recently that they do not recall seeing the 
illustrations, but this does not however mean they were not provided at the time. Policy 
illustrations are a common feature when advising on life assurance and I think it more likely 
than not that they were provided to Mr and Mrs W at the time. Albeit I accept they may no 
longer recall seeing them, as it is approximately 20 years since they were provided. 
Mr and Mrs W have questions why the commission amounts were not set out in the policy 
documents but there was no requirement for this and there would be no need once already 
disclosed in the policy illustrations.
The key features of the policies, including the commission amounts, were set out in the illustrations for Mr and Mrs W to consider. Had they been unhappy about any of the features, 
including the commission amounts, they could have decided against taking the policies out. 
They proceeded in taking out the policies, having been informed about the amount of 
commission that would be payable for each policy and because of this I do not consider 
Barclays treated them unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the commission point. 
I should also add that even if the commission was not disclosed to Mr and Mrs W this would 
not automatically mean that they were treated unfairly by Barclays. When referring to the 
Plevin judgment Mr and Mrs W refer to the amount of the commission payment being unfair. 
In the Plevin case the undisclosed commission amounted to 72.8% of the cost of the policy 
and this was found to be so high that it did represent an unfairness to Mrs Plevin. The 
commission payments in Mr and Mrs Ws policies were both in the region of 15%. This is not 
an unreasonably high sum in my view and even they were not disclosed they would result in 
an unfairness. 
My final decision
I appreciate again that my decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs W but for the 
reasons set out above I have not upheld their complaint against Barclays bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman