DRN-3231784
The complaint
Mr L complains that Think Money Ltd (TM) didnt do enough when he sent money to their 
customers accounts as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary here. In 2021 Mr L was sadly the victim of a safe account scam. The payments 
relevant to this complaint total around £5,700 which Mr L sent from his account with his own 
bank S to accounts held with TM. Of this amount TM recovered and returned around 
£2,120.
Mr L complained to both S and TM. I understand that following the involvement of one of my 
Ombudsman colleagues on the linked complaint about S, they reimbursed Mr L with around 
£1,795 (which represented 50% of his outstanding loss). Mr L would like TM to refund him 
the rest. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
In summary he didnt think TM reasonably could have prevented Mr Ls loss and he didnt 
recommend that they needed to do more. Mr L disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman 
to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigators outcome and for similar reasons. I know this 
will be disappointing for Mr L, so Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied that TM correctly followed their account opening process for both of the 
accounts that received money from Mr L. I dont think there was anything at that stage that 
would have indicated that either account might later go on to be used in connection with a 
fraud or scam. So, I dont think TM could have prevented Mr Ls loss in relation to the 
opening of the accounts. 
Ive also looked at the activity on both accounts, this is before and soon after the arrival of 
the funds that Mr L sent. I can see TM took action on their customers accounts prior to Mr L 
becoming aware that hed been the victim of a scam and reporting this to S. This resulted in 
them recovering and returning around £2,120 from one of the accounts. I think the steps TM 
took in relation to the activity on their customers accounts was appropriate and what Id 
expect them to do in these circumstances. So, I dont think TM reasonably could have done 
more to mitigate any of the loss Mr L has suffered. 
Mr L has mentioned that he doesnt think S acted quickly enough upon receipt of his 
notification of fraud. I cant comment on the actions of S here. But as Ive mentioned above, 
TM took action before S notified them of a problem with Mr Ls payments. I dont think TM 
reasonably should have acted sooner or that anything they did negatively impacted on the 
amount of money they were able to recover. Because of this, there isnt a reasonable basis 
upon which I can ask them to refund the outstanding loss. 
Mr L has also mentioned that he thinks its not right that TM know the identity of their 
accountholders and that this hasnt been shared with the police. He also thinks our service 
could contact the accountholders and ask them to repay him. I can understand why Mr L 
would want to do everything he can to recover his money. But our service is here to resolve 
disputes between regulated financial businesses and consumers such as Mr L  we cant 
investigate crime. 
Here, TM themselves havent been a victim of crime, Mr L has. So it would be for Mr L to 
report matters to the police, this isnt something Id expect TM to have done on his behalf. 
There also isnt any basis upon which I can direct TM to share their customers details 
directly with Mr L. I am however confident that TM would share any relevant information with 
the police, upon a request from them to do so. 
I accept Mr L has been the victim of a scam. Im pleased it seems hes been able to recover 
the majority of the money he sent from the various banks involved in the wider 
circumstances surrounding this complaint. But this doesnt mean that TM are likewise 
required to provide a refund. And as I dont think TM did anything that caused Mr Ls 
outstanding loss, hindered its recovery, or that they treated him unfairly, Im not going to tell 
them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman