DRN-2432546
The complaint
Miss J complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim under her travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss J bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes, in March 2020. 
The policy included optional travel disruption extension cover for a holiday which was due 
to take place in May 2020. 
Unfortunately, Miss Js holiday was cancelled because of the situation surrounding Covid-19 
and she made a claim with Great Lakes for the money shed paid for accommodation. 
Great Lakes said Miss Js claim wasnt covered as shed been offered a credit note by the 
accommodation provider and the terms and conditions of her policy said Great Lakes 
wouldnt pay for costs which were recoverable from elsewhere. Unhappy, Miss J complained 
to Great Lakes before bringing her complaint to the attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Great Lakes had 
been unfair or unreasonable in turning down Miss Js claim. Miss J didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive had regard to these rules and to other regulatory guidance 
 as well as to Miss Js individual circumstances  when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The optional travel disruption extension section of Miss Js policy provides cover for:
unused travel and accommodation costsif you were not able to travel and use 
your booked accommodationas a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or regulatory 
authority in a country to/from which you are travelling issuing a directive:
a) Prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel
But this doesnt mean that every claim fitting these circumstances is covered. Like most, if 
not all, travel insurance policies on the market, Miss Js policy doesnt provide cover for 
costs which can be recovered from elsewhere. 
The optional travel disruption extension section of the policy has an exclusion which says 
the following are not covered:
any costs incurred by you which are recoverable from the providers of the 
accommodation (or their administrators) or for which you receive or are expected to 
receive compensation or reimbursement.
The policy also contains a general condition which says:
We will not pay for any costs which are recoverable elsewhere.
Miss Js accommodation provider said its booking terms and conditions provide for no 
refunds to be given. Instead, the accommodation provider offered Miss J a credit note to 
make a future booking which is valid for three years from May 2020. The accommodation 
provider has said if three years isnt long enough then its happy to extend the credit note 
further, and it has also offered to make the credit note transferrable to another person. 
I understand Miss J says she hasnt been reimbursed financially by the credit note. However, 
the credit note enables Miss J to use the same accommodation shed booked for the original 
trip which was insured under her policy with Great Lakes. 
Ive taken into account everything Miss J has said about her personal circumstances, 
including that childcare arrangements and leave from work mean shell be unable to go on 
the same trip again. However, the credit note which Miss J has been offered lasts until at 
least May 2023  and Miss J has the option of extending the credit note beyond this date 
and/or of transferring it to another person. So, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for 
Great Lakes to consider that the offer of the credit note means Miss J has recovered her 
accommodation costs from the provider. 
I understand Miss J says she was told when she bought the policy that a claim fitting certain 
criteria would be covered. Great Lakes isnt responsible for any information given by the 
seller of the policy but, in any event, every insurance claim will inevitably be subject to the 
full policy terms and conditions. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss J but I dont think her claim is covered under the terms and 
conditions of her policy, so I wont be directing Great Lakes to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman