DRN-4455072
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2021 Mr T saw a programme about cryptocurrency which was endorsed by a well-known 
celebrity. Around the same time, he received a cold call from someone claiming to work for a 
company Ill refer to as A, who said he could make money from investing in cryptocurrency. 
The broker said the investment would be low-risk and Mr T checked As website and didnt 
find anything negative. 
The broker told Mr T to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company Ill refer to as L and then load it onto an online wallet. Between 7 January 2021 
and 13 April 2021, he made six payments totalling £13,473.71 from his HSBC account. 
During this period, he received credits of £3,718.87 and £501.36, but he became concerned 
around April/May 2021 when a withdrawal request wasnt processed, so he contacted the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who told him hed been scammed.
In August 2021, Mr T was contacted by someone claiming to be a recovery agent appointed 
by the Cyber Crime Commission and the International Organisation of Securities 
Commissions (IOCSO) to distribute funds from A. They charged him £750 to register and 
gave an address in Switzerland and several telephone numbers used by individuals 
connected to the process. Between 4 August 2021 and 4 November 2021, he made 28 
payments to L totalling £114,691. During this period, he received credits into the account 
totalling £50,279.63.  
Mr T contacted HSBC when he discovered hed been scammed, but it said the funds were 
sent to an account in his own name, so the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code 
didnt apply. 
He complained to this service with the assistance of his representative who explained he is 
elderly and vulnerable, he isnt experienced in online investments and is not IT literate, so he 
wouldnt have been able to conduct effective due diligence. They said the scammer must 
have found Mr Ts details following research he did in March 2021, and that he fell for the 
recovery scams because he was desperate to recover money, he lost to the first scam. They 
said that HSBC failed to identify the transactions as unusual and to prevent his loss.
HSBC said there was no loss from Mr Ts HSBC account. It said there were previous large 
payments from the account, so the disputed payments werent out of character, and it had 
contacted Mr T, but it didnt make a difference. It said hed failed to undertake due diligence 
as the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had posted warnings about A around the time of 
the payments. And hed paid a merchant which had provided genuine cryptocurrency 
services so there was no prospect of a successful chargeback.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said for the CRM code to 
apply, the payment had to be made to an account held in another name, and the code 
doesnt cover card payments and international transfers. 
She didnt think the payments were unusual because the account had a history of large 
payments, and it wasnt unusual for Mr T to make multiple payments on the same day or to 
deposit funds into the account, which he then used on the same day. 
She noted there was a call on 21 August 2021, but the payments werent approved because 
Mr T was unable to confirm the beneficiary account details. In a further call on 22 August 
2021, Mr T confirmed he was transferring funds to his cryptocurrency account and that he 
wanted the transactions to go ahead. He said this was his first time trading, he hadnt been 
referred by anyone, and hed done his own research. The call handler explained they wanted 
to make sure he was sending funds to a legitimate account and warned him about scams. 
Our investigator noted Mr T denied the involvement of a third party, so HSBC was unable to 
provide a tailored warning. But she didnt think a more tailored warning would have made 
any difference as he was keen to recover the money hed lost, and hed received multiple 
credits into his account. 
She explained there was a further call on 3 November 2021 when Mr T tried to make a 
payment £15,300. During the call, he was told that criminals ask customers not to discuss 
payments with their bank and he denied that hed been asked by any third parties to make 
the payment. Again, she didnt think the warning was relevant to the circumstances, but she 
didnt think a more relevant warning would have made a difference. And as Mr T didnt 
disclose the involvement of a third party, HSBC didnt have the full facts to enable it to 
identify that Mr T was being scammed.
Our investigator concluded that Mr T was trying to recover money hed lost to the first scam 
and had been enticed by the credits he had received, and as he didnt disclose the existence 
of the third-parties in any of the calls, she didnt think there was anything else HSBC could 
have done to uncover or prevent the scam. 
Mr T has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He accepts the claim 
wasnt covered under the CRM code, but he believes the account activity was unusual. His 
representative has explained he received some money following his retirement in October 
2019. He told HSBC he was due to receive three lump sum payments and it advised him to 
transfer the funds out to accounts he held with other banks. They have said HSBC allowed 
the transfers out of the account to condition the account for all future transactions, which 
was unfair.
The representative accepts Mr T had made several larger purchases including a car and 
various holidays, but HSBC should have reverted to the typical nature of the account 
because between 6 May 2019 and 6 March 2020, over 90% of the transactions were under 
£400, so the scam payments unusual.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr T has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr T says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC has said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because Mr T paid an account in his own name, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Mr Ts payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr T).
Mr Ts own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Ts payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that HSBCs decision not to raise a 
chargeback request was fair.
Im satisfied Mr T authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Its not in dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr T didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC 
ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of 
a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr T when 
he tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect HSBC to intervene with a view to protecting Mr T from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on HSBCs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr T 
normally ran his account and I agree with our investigator that, based on the account activity 
in the months before, the payments werent unusual. This is because there was a history of 
large payments from the account, so the payments werent concerning.
Between 9 March 2021 and 4 November 2021, Mr T made several large payments to the 
scams which ranged from £6,000 to £15,300. I accept these were large payments, but there 
were several payments on the account which exceeded these sums, so Im satisfied that the scam payments wouldnt have seemed unusual. I also accept that some of the disputed 
payments put the account into an agreed overdraft, but it wasnt uncommon for Mr T to use 
his overdraft facility. And while he was paying a merchant that was associated with 
cryptocurrency, the payments were spread over several months, so by the time he made the 
later payments, L was an established payee. 
Mr Ts representative has argued that some of the larger payments out of the account should 
have been ignored for the purposes of identifying whether the scam payments were unusual 
because HSBC knew hed received money following his retirement and was transferring it 
out to accounts he held with other banks. While I accept some of the account activity might 
have been unusual because he was moving money hed received following his retirement, I 
wouldnt reasonably expect HSBCs fraud systems to distinguish this activity. And many of 
the payments were to accounts in Mr Ts own name, so there was little to distinguish them 
from the scam payments, which were also to an account in his own name.
Even though I dont think HSBC missed an opportunity to intervene, it did contact Mr T on 21 
august 2021 and 22 August 2021, so Ive thought about what happened when it did 
intervene. During the two calls, Mr T wasnt given a warning that was relevant to a recovery 
scam, but he was asked probing questions including whether there was a third party 
involved. Unfortunately, he didnt disclose the fact he was paying what he thought was a 
recovery agent, so HSBC couldnt reasonably have discovered the scam.
HSBC intervened again on 3 November 2021. During that call, Mr T was asked some 
questions about the purpose of the payment, but the warning he was given wasnt relevant 
to the circumstances. He was asked again whether there was a third party involved and he 
said there wasnt so, HSBC didnt uncover the scam.
Ive thought about whether HSBC could reasonably have done anything else during the calls 
which might have prevented Mr T from going ahead with the payments, and I dont think it 
could. This is because, Mr T didnt tell it he was paying recovery agents, he didnt mention 
the fact hed already been scammed, and he didnt tell it he believed he was paying recovery 
agents, so I dont think it would have made any difference if hed been probed further. I 
agree with our investigator Mr T was determined to go ahead with the payments because he 
thought he was dealing with genuine recovery agents who were going to help him to recoup 
the money he lost to the first scam. And hed received significant credits into the account 
which added to his confidence that the process was genuine. So, I dont think there was 
anything else HSBC could have done to prevent his loss.
Compensation
HSBC said it was unable to locate a folder Mr T had submitted in support of his complaint, 
but it was unlikely it would have made a difference given the funds were paid to an account 
held in his own name. It offered £500 compensation for its failings and confirmed the matter 
had been reported to its Data Protection Office. Im satisfied that was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances and I dont think Mr T is entitled to any more compensation.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr T has lost 
money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
HSBC is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman