DRN-1139356
Complaint
Miss N complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a new credit card in 2003.
Background
I can see Capital One has already paid back Miss N some money, for the commission it 
received from the sale. However, our adjudicator said the complaint about the actual mis-
sale shouldnt be upheld.
Miss N disagrees and still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place. Shes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. 
Capital One says its records show the PPI was sold to Miss N over the internet. Miss N also 
says this. Capital One sent us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks Miss N 
would have used during the online credit card application back in 2003. It says she would 
have been presented with a yes / no choice about having PPI with her new card. It says she 
would have had to choose one of the two options to be able to continue her way through to 
the next stage of the application and that she must have chosen the yes option on the 
screen for PPI to be added.
Theres no dispute Miss N was sold PPI. So I think shed have selected the yes option and 
then also started to see the PPI charges appearing on her monthly statements over quite a 
long period of time. I also think Miss N would have been sent a welcome letter explaining 
the PPI because Ive seen other very similar cases where this was done. 
So, on this basis I think its much more likely Miss N asked for the cover to be added and 
would have been able to see it was optional. I think if she hadnt agreed, she would have 
wanted to know what the letter was for and why the charges were occurring. On balance, I 
think she probably agreed to the PPI. 
This wasnt an advised sale and so it was for Miss N to decide for herself what she wanted 
to do. Capital One had a responsibility to provide clear information to allow her to make that 
decision.
Its certainly possible Capital One could have explained the policy in more detail than it did, 
although I can see there were some links about the price and other key features of the PPI. 
So I think Miss N probably had enough information to decide what she wanted to do. Even if I accept more could have been done by Capital One, I dont think this makes any difference 
to my decision.
This is because I think Miss N was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost of the cover, at 79p per £100 of 
the outstanding monthly card balance, seems affordable for her and the PPI would have paid 
off 10% of her outstanding credit card balance each month for up to a year if shed needed 
to claim. Looking at Miss Ns job and general circumstances, I think this would have been 
useful.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss N but I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay any money 
to Miss N. My understanding is that Capital One (Europe) plc has already paid back some 
money to Miss N for the commission it received from the sale.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman