DRN-1741059
The complaint
Ms T is unhappy with the increases in the premium of her home insurance policy held with 
UK Insurance Limited (UKI).
What happened
In 2010, Ms T took out the policy with Bank A. The policy continued to run until October 
2019, when it was cancelled and replaced with a new policy. As UKI was the insurer during 
the time Ms T held her policy, it was responsible for setting the price and is therefore 
responsible for this complaint.
In October 2019, following receipt of a cheaper quote from UKI, Ms T cancelled her policy 
and took out a new policy at a lower cost. Unhappy that the cost of her original policy had 
increased significantly over the years, Ms T complained to UKI. 
In her letter of complaint, Ms T said she thought UKI had treated her unfairly as she didnt 
think the annual premium increases were justified. She also said she could have obtained 
similar cover elsewhere for cheaper and was unhappy that she was paying more for her 
policy than the price available to new customers. To put things right, Ms T requested a full 
refund of the difference she paid for her policy and the price offered to new customers. She 
said shed like the offer to be backdated to the date on which her premium first increased 
and would like interest to be paid on the refund due.
Having reviewed her complaint, UKI offered to refund Ms T some of the cost of the policy as 
a gesture of goodwill. UKI offered to refund to Ms T the amount she paid above the 2013 
premium from 2014 up until 2019 (when the policy was cancelled). This totalled £1,644.73. 
The offer also included additional compensation set at 8% simple interest per year  to 
compensate Ms T for being out of pocket of that money. This totalled £197.82 (after tax).
Its offer came to £1,842.55, which it then rounded up to £1,900. It then offered an additional 
£100 as compensation for the trouble Ms T had been caused. So, in total UKI offered £2,000 
in an attempt to resolve the complaint. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. 
Having considered UKIs offer, he thought it was a fair way to resolve things. 
Ms T responded saying she didnt agree with the outcome as she didnt believe the gesture 
of goodwill offer went far enough to put things right. She said didnt think UKIs pricing 
strategy was fair or justified and didnt think UKI handled her complaint as well as it should 
have.
As the matter hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having carefully considered whats happened, I agree with our adjudicator. I think UKIs offer 
of compensation is fair. I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms T, so Id like to 
explain why Ive reached the outcome I have.
Firstly, I would like to make it clear that I dont have the power to tell a business what it 
should charge its customers for insurance products. If I did, I would be in effect determining 
or telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role.
Insurers will assess and treat risk differently and will charge different premiums based on 
their assessment of risk. One insurer may decide its taking a significant risk insuring a 
particular property, whereas another insurer might not  and there can different factors and 
reasons for each insurers decision. Ultimately, its up to an insurer to decide what it charges 
for insurance and I dont have the power to tell an insurer whether that price is too high or 
not quite right.
But I can look at whether UKI treated Ms T fairly throughout the time she held her home 
insurance policy with it. If I find that UKI hasnt treated Ms T fairly, I will look to see what 
compensation would be fair and, in this case, whether I think the amount UKI has offered is 
fair.
When Ms T first took out the policy in 2010, it cost £564.90 for the year. The policys cost 
increased over the years and in 2019 it had increased to around £1,500  so Ive looked to 
see what happened.
Aside from the first year (2010), when Ms T first applied for her policy over the internet, her 
policy automatically renewed each year. With automatic renewals there is a chance that if a 
customer doesnt engage with the renewal process or shop around for other suitable 
policies, they may find themselves in a position where they are paying much more for their 
cover than a new customer would pay for a similar policy.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. But where an insurer knew, 
or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with the renewals 
process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated these consumers fairly  
and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by increasing their 
premiums just because the customer didnt engage with the cost.
Looking at the contact Ms T had with UKI over the years, I can see that in 2014 Ms T called 
to make a claim on her policy. I can also see that in 2017, she requested some changes to 
her policy where she appears to have requested some additional cover. Using what I know 
generally about the insurance industry, both of these types things could impact on the price 
of the policy in subsequent years. So, while there have been increases to the premiums over 
the years, there may have some legitimate reasons for part of the premium increases. 
 
 
 
Having looked at Ms Ts journey overall, there were periods where Ms T didnt engage and 
the policy automatically renewed with the premiums increasing. In this case, UKI has offered 
to refund some of the cost of the insurance premiums Ms T paid in excess of her 2013 
premium up until the policy was cancelled in 2019. Essentially, its frozen Ms Ts premium 
at the 2013 price, which ensures she hasnt lost out on any subsequent premium increases from this from this point on. So, at any point between 2013 and October 2019, if the price 
rose above that of the 2013 premium, UKI has offered the difference of what she paid above 
that amount. Taking everything into account, I think this is fair.
In her submissions to our service, Ms T has told us she was able to obtain alternative 
policies for a lot less than what she was paying for her policy. She says this shows that UKIs 
pricing strategy generally isnt fair. While I dont doubt what Ms T has said about being able 
to obtain cheaper insurance elsewhere, I dont think this amounts a fair comparison to the 
policy she took out in 2010. Ill explain why.
Often, when new policies are taken out, they come with a significant initial discount which 
insurers aim recoup over the years through customer retention. This is often referred to as 
new customer discount and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of the insurance 
policy.  In addition to this, policies provided by different insurers may involve different 
benefits and/or levels of benefits and the level of service offered to customers may also be 
different. So, we do need to be careful when comparing the cost of insurance policies, as 
there may be some known and possibly some unknown factors that could impact on the 
overall cost of the policy.
Its also worth noting that more recently, online practices and price comparison websites 
have resulted in insurers offering slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now 
manage their policies online, thereby reducing administrative costs to insurers with the 
resulting savings being applied to a reduction in the cost a customer pays for their policy.
In addition to this, its worth mentioning that insurers can also have a different perception of 
the risk a customer presents  and again the cost between insurers can be different based 
on each insurers perceived risk of the thing theyre undertaking to insure. 
All the factors Ive mentioned above, could mean that the cost of the policy Ms T took out in 
2010 and renewed in subsequent years, would be different to the cost of a policy taken out 
more recently. So, while Ms T could take out a policy at a much lower cost today, for the 
reasons explained, I dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of different policies taken 
out at different times as if they were like-for-like.
Finally, following our adjudicators assessment of Ms Ts complaint, Ms T raised some 
issues about UKIs handling of her complaint. The handling of complaints is not itself a 
regulated activity and I cant see that Ms T has raised this issue with UKI in the first instance. 
This is therefore not something Ive looked as part of my assessment of Ms Ts complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, UK Insurance Limiteds offer to refund some of the costs of Ms 
Ts home insurance policy from 2013 until the policy was cancelled, is fair.
UK Insurance Limiteds further additional compensation offer of £100 for the trouble caused 
to Ms T is also fair.
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Margaux Stride-NobleOmbudsman