DRN-2349944
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy about the quality of a used car supplied to her by First Response Finance 
Limited (First Response) under a Hire Purchase Agreement.
What happened
Miss H purchased a used car for £2,995 in May 2019, the vehicle had covered 105,088 
miles and was eight years old at the point of purchase. Within a week of getting the car, the 
clutch broke down. As Miss H had her three-month guarantee, this was replaced at no cost 
to her. Further issues occurred in February 2020, Miss H saw the engine management light 
(EML) had become illuminated on the dashboard. At this point, the vehicle began to lose 
power and cut out. A local mechanic inspected the car and said that the engine, turbo and 
diesel particulate filter (DPF) had failed.  
First Response issued a final response letter to Miss H on 31 March 2020, they say the 
issues with the car were not present at the point of supply. And therefore, under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, First Response cannot be expected to carry out any repairs. 
They did offer to renew the agreement with another vehicle, Miss H was unhappy with this. 
And wants First Response to change the vehicle at no cost to her. 
One of our investigators here looked into this case, she felt that the issues were down to the 
general wear and tear of the car, they were not present at the point of supply. The 
investigator felt that First Responses offer to renew the agreement was fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint. And therefore, First Response were not required to do 
anything further. 
Unhappy with the response, Miss H says that First Response should supply her with a 
replacement vehicle at no cost to her. She has requested for this complaint to be looked at 
by an ombudsman. So, this matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. First Response is the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (the CRA) is relevant to this complaint, under the contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of goods is satisfactory. The 
quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard expectation of a reasonable person 
by considering any description of goods, price and all relevant circumstances a court would 
consider such as the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
The CRA says the quality of goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, lack of minor defects, safety and 
durability. If the goods supplied under the CRA are considered to be unsatisfactory quality, it 
would be considered a breach of contract. When deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case, I have thought about whether the quality of the car supplied by First Response was 
satisfactory. 
First Response supplied Miss H with a car that was eight years old and had travelled 
105,088 miles when it was supplied. And the price of the car was lower than it would have 
been if it had been supplied new. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect that parts of the car might have already suffered wear and tear. And theres a greater 
risk this car might need repair and maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-
worn when it was supplied. 
Based on the evidence I have from both parties, it seems likely there is a fault with the car. 
I can see there was an issue with the clutch, engine, turbo and DPF. But just because 
something has gone wrong doesnt always mean the goods are not of satisfactory quality at 
the point they were supplied.
Within a week of purchasing the car, the issue arose with the clutch. Ive seen that this was 
repaired at no cost to Miss H. And as the issue did not occur again, this was a suitable 
remedy to fix this problem. As Miss H continued to drive the car, Im satisfied that this issue 
has been successfully resolved. 
The car had successfully travelled a further 11,635 miles before any further issues occurred. 
At this point, the EML had illuminated on the dashboard. The vehicle then began to lose 
power and cut out. A local mechanic advised Miss H that the engine, turbo and DPF had 
failed. 
First Response says the mechanic who inspected the car told it that the issues were not 
present at the point of purchase. I havent been provided with any comments direct from the 
mechanic but nevertheless given Miss H was able to drive the car for nine months and cover 
over 11,000 miles Ive not seen enough evidence to make me think the faults with the turbo, 
engine and DPF were present or developing at the point of supply. From what I have seen, I 
think its most likely that the faults were the result of wear and tear someone might 
reasonably expect to occur on a car of this age and mileage. 
First Response say that the mechanic told them that Miss H continued to drive the car when 
the issue with the turbo occurred, which would have worsened the cars condition which is 
why a new engine is now required. The mechanic also advised that the continued use of the 
car would have caused the DPF issues which is why a replacement is now required. First 
Response said it was told the extent of the subsequent damages could have been prevented 
if the car was not driven. Miss H hasnt said she continued to drive the car while warning 
lights were appearing on the dashboard so its not clear she would have known there was a 
problem with the turbo. But nonetheless as Im not persuaded the original fault with the turbo 
meant the car was unsatisfactory when supplied, I dont find it makes any difference to my 
conclusion here whether Miss H continued to drive the car when she knew there was a 
problem or not. 
As Miss H purchased a used car, she paid a cash price of £2995. This would be considered 
a lot lower than the price she wouldve paid for a newer car. And on that basis, it would be 
fair to say that a used car would require maintenance much sooner than a newer car. 
I understand Miss H wants a replacement vehicle at no cost to her. However, as the issue 
with the clutch was fixed, Im satisfied that this was a suitable remedy. In regard to the other issues, I havent seen anything that would make me think that the car was not of a 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. And on that basis, I wont be asking First Response 
to do anything further. I also think that First Response have been fair and reasonable to offer 
Miss H the option of renewing her agreement with another vehicle if she wants to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I have decided not to uphold this complaint against First 
Response Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman