DRN-3215414
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim she made on her 
household insurance for a mobile phone.
What happened
 Ms N contacted Aviva to claim for a mobile phone worth around £700 that was lost away 
from home. Aviva told Ms N her policy did not cover the loss of the phone. Ms N told Aviva 
shed made sure when shed taken out the policy that mobile phones would be covered both 
inside and away from home. She said she was told by Aviva during a call that any single 
item worth up to £1,500 would be covered inside and away from home. And that her policy 
documents confirmed this. Aviva told Ms N it wouldnt have been possible for her to speak to 
anyone by phone because her policy was an online one. Ms N complained.
In its Final Response Letter to Ms Ns complaint, Aviva said that - because shed not 
selected personal belongings cover when she took out the policy - her claim wasnt covered. 
And that the single article limit listed on her schedule was not the same as personal 
belongings cover.
Ms N sent Aviva screenshots from various stages of its online sales process which she felt 
demonstrated the mobile phone would be covered. Aviva responded that the screenshots 
made it clear personal belongings cover would need to be selected for the lost phone to be 
covered away from home. And that the single item limit was not a cover in itself but rather a 
limit to any one item that can be considered under the personal belongings cover.
Ms N brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. Our investigator said it 
was reasonable for Aviva to decline Ms Ns claim because she hadnt selected personal 
belongings cover when she took out the policy. Ms N didnt agree with our investigators view 
because she felt her policy schedule showed that single articles up to £1,500 were covered 
away from home. Ms N asked for an ombudsmans decision.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Ms Ns complaint. I explained my 
provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
Ive reviewed Ms Ns policy schedule.
There is a sub-heading in bold, green text saying Personal Belongings in and away from 
your home:.
Underneath the sub-heading, it says Unspecified personal belongings and then alongside 
this text it says Not covered.
In the line below this, it says Single article limit (unless a specified item) and alongside this 
text it says £1,500.
In the next line beneath this, the text says Personal money and then not covered. 
So two of the three items listed under the personal belongings sub-heading have not 
covered alongside them. But alongside the single article limit, the schedule doesnt say not 
covered but instead says £1,500. So regardless of what options Aviva says Ms S may or 
may not have selected when she took out the policy, I dont think its unreasonable for Ms N 
to think that single items worth up to £1,500 would be covered if lost away from home 
because an amount of £1,500 is listed next to the single article limit on her policy schedule.
Aviva said that the £1,500 single article limit is a limit rather than a cover. But I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Ms N to be aware of this distinction because its not explained in her 
policy documentation.
Aviva also say Ms N didnt select personal belongings cover, so the single article limit 
wouldnt apply. But I dont think its reasonable to expect Ms N to know that the single article 
limit listed in her policy schedule would only apply if it also stated that personal belongings 
were covered because this isnt explained in her policy documentation.
Also Contents are defined in Ms Ns policy wording as Household items and personal 
belongings (including personal money and valuables up to the limits shown on your schedule 
that: you own; you are legal responsible for. so I think its reasonable to think that the 
definition of Contents includes Personal belongings. And the policy wording then defines 
Personal Belongings as items which you normally wear or carry with you so I think its 
reasonable to think that this definition would include mobile phones away from home. So 
even though Aviva say Ms N didnt have personal belongings cover, the definitions of 
Contents and Personal Belongings in her policy wording seem to suggest that personal 
belongings which are carried  such as mobile phones - are included within Avivas definition 
of Contents, which Ms N had cover for.
For the reasons set out above, I think its reasonable for Ms N to think that her claim for a 
mobile phone worth £700 lost away from home would be covered. So Im minded to instruct 
Aviva to accept Ms Ns claim and consider it in line with its usual claims handling processes 
and any other relevant policy terms. I intend as well to instruct Aviva to pay Ms N £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her in declining her claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms N accepted my provisional findings but Aviva didnt. 
Avivas response said that our investigators view confirmed that Ms N didnt choose 
personal belongings as part of her cover and that her policy terms were clear this wouldve 
needed to have been selected and included in her policy schedule for her claim to be 
covered. Aviva also said that its policy terms make it clear that the onus is on the 
policyholder to ensure they have the correct level of cover. Aviva also said - that should my 
provisional decision remain - it would be unfair to other customers who have made 
complaints in the past and had them rejected.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. 
Avivas response made reference to our investigators view and said that its policy terms 
about personal belongings were clear.  When making my provisional decision, I considered 
our investigators findings, some of which Aviva restated in its response. But Avivas 
response didnt provide any new information, evidence or arguments in relation to these 
points that Id not already considered when arriving at my provisional decision. 
Avivas response also said that my provisional decision was unfair to other customers. But 
my role is to decide only whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances specific to Ms Ns 
complaint. 
Aviva said that the onus is on the policy holder to ensure they have the correct cover for their 
requirements and that Ms N had been sent policy documents. But my provisional decision 
had already said that  given Ms Ns policy documentation - it was reasonable for her to 
think the mobile phone would be covered. And so that she had the correct cover.
So for the reasons Ive outlined above, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
finding that - regardless of the options Aviva said Ms N may or may not have chosen  its 
not unreasonable, given her policy documentation, for her to think that the loss of her mobile 
phone would be covered. 
So I shall be upholding Ms Ns complaint in line with my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ns complaint. 
I instruct Aviva Insurance Limited to accept Ms Ns claim and consider it in line with its usual 
claims handling processes and any other relevant policy terms. 
I instruct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Ms N £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused her in declining her claim.  Aviva Insurance Limited must pay 
the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Ms N accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman