DRN-3841440
The complaint
Evelyn Partners Financial Planning Limited trading as Tilney managed the investments in  
Mr Ms Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). It did that on a discretionary basis. In the 
main, Mr M says Tilney  failed on multiple occasions to honour an assurance given to 
[him] that [his] views will be taken on board and in doing so they ignored suggestions, 
concerns and requests regarding investment strategy made by [him] . He refers to an 
underperformance of around £900,000 in the SIPP. He believes the alleged failure by Tilney 
is the cause and he seeks redress for this.
What happened
Mr M says the following happened:
In 2019 he had discussions with Tilney on the matter of potentially transferring his 
final salary pension to a SIPP. By January 2020 he had committed to do so and to 
proceed with Tilney. He also signed its discretionary management service agreement 
in this month. He did that only on the basis of the assurance Tilney gave him that he 
would be able to intervene and influence investments in the SIPP.
He had an investment strategy, dating from around 2010, that he used, that he relied 
upon and that he shared with Tilney. This led to his agreement with Tilney, and 
Tilneys assurance, that he would be able to draw on his strategy to influence the 
management of his SIPP. This was agreed and assured before Tilneys appointment 
and was repeated thereafter.
In February 2020, as markets began to react to the onset of the pandemic, he told 
Tilney he did not want market exposure at the time, and that when that position 
changed a short/medium term investment in the Buy the (UK) Market (BUKM) 
would be his suggestion  before transitioning to a selective and focused investment 
strategy. Tilney did not accept his suggestion, but gave him the impression it could 
have done so if it wished. The former breached the assurance he had been given, 
and the latter conflicts with information he later discovered which shows its 
discretionary service investment protocols prohibited what he had suggested, so he 
was misled to believe otherwise. 
In August 2020, he reacted to the FTSE levels at the time (around 6,000) and asked 
Tilney to begin investing his SIPP in the markets. He also instructed an increase in 
the risk/strategy level for the SIPP  from Tilney Strategy 6 (TS6) to Tilney Strategy 
7 (TS7)  in order to maximise exposure to equities. Tilney delayed in making this 
change, and it remained outstanding up to around the end of 2020. It also delayed in 
investing his SIPP. By September 2020 less than half of the SIPPs cash value had 
been invested. His prompting in November 2020 then resulted in further investment, 
of just under half of the remainder cash value. Upon review of the investment 
transactions he discovered, in November 2020, that they had been made at poor 
prices because of the delay, less favourable than the prices at the time of his 
instruction. He suggested an alternative strategy to Tilney, but he was ignored again.
He did not have a dedicated Investment Manager (IM) until December 2020. In 
August 2021 she acknowledged that Tilneys investment process had been 
misunderstood and apologised for that. She confirmed the discretionary service was 
based only on Tilneys way, without reference to any alternative service for him to 
consider. He then learnt, in January 2022, about Tilneys advisory and execution only 
services. His BUKM proposal could have been executed in either of these services. 
Tilney should have offered these alternatives to him previously, given that his wish to 
be involved (when he chose to) in the SIPPs investments was very clear throughout. 
The objective he agreed with Tilney did not conflict with his wish for involvement 
(when he chose to). He did not want to spend time on the day-to-day minutiae of 
investments in the SIPP, but he wanted the option to influence investment strategy.
He complained to Tilney in December 2021, thereafter it mismanaged his complaint. 
The complaints process was stressful and time consuming. Within it, complaint 
issues were avoided, accusations were made against him and statements previously 
made by Tilney were denied. 
Mr M says the events in his case create, in addition to the main complaint issue, associated 
issues with regards to him being misled about Tilneys ability to undertake his BUKM 
proposal under the discretionary service and about alternative services that were available 
for his SIPP but not disclosed; with regards to Tilneys delay in moving his SIPP account 
from TS6 to TS7; with regards to its delay in investing his SIPP; and with regards to its 
mishandling of his complaint. 
Tilney disputes the issues, apart from that about moving the SIPP from TS6 to TS7. It 
accepts there was a delay in the move. It calculated that all but a specific investment in 
November 2020 matched the profile the SIPP would have had under TS7 and that a net loss 
of £1,286 was incurred from that investment when it was sold in May 2021. It offered Mr M 
£1,500 compensation in this respect (to cover the net loss and, in the remainder, to address 
the inconvenience caused). 
One of our investigators looked into the case and concluded that it should not be upheld. 
She mainly said:
The agreement Mr M signed in January 2020 presented two service options, 
discretionary and advisory. He ticked and selected the discretionary service. The 
options were differently defined in the document. Tilney made investment decisions 
and arranged transactions (on his behalf) in the discretionary service, in the advisory 
service it only made recommendations so the final decisions rested with him. 
Despite his selection, Mr M wanted to have additional involvement in the 
management of the SIPP than the agreement permitted. He wanted to deviate from 
Tilneys strategy for the SIPP but as Tilney had discretionary authority in its 
management it was entitled to make the final investment decisions. This was the 
service Mr M agreed to, so it was not wrong for Tilney not to alter its approach to 
meet his instructions.
TS6 was an appropriate profile for the SIPP. It matched Mr Ms FinaMetrica based 
risk profile assessment, which was an E within a scale of A to G (with A being risk 
averse and G being speculative). 
Mr M has stressed that he agreed to the discretionary service only because of the 
assurance Tilney gave him. However, there is a difference between Tilney listening 
to his opinions and Tilney taking investment instructions from him. If the latter is what he wanted he should have considered the advisory service.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
He said the case is mainly about matters of conduct, trust and integrity  Tilneys failure to 
honour the assurance it gave him, which misled him into the arrangement; its failure to align 
its service to that assurance from the outset and onwards; its ongoing failure to correct that 
misalignment; and the lack of integrity displayed in the false claims and denials made in the 
course of addressing his complaint. He also stressed his view that this service should seek 
confirmation from Tilney (and the specific team member related to the integrity matter) with 
regards to the points he has made and in particular the assurance he was given.
The case was then referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Introduction
The following are undisputed facts  
Tilney was appointed to manage the SIPPs investments on a discretionary basis; 
its appointment took effect upon the service agreement Mr M signed in January 
2020; 
its discretionary management of the SIPP was based on the authority he delegated 
to it and on the mandate agreed between the parties; 
investment of the SIPP was delayed from February 2020 on his request; 
investment of the SIPP began after his approval in August 2020; 
investments were made in September and November 2020; 
earlier in the arrangement he asked for a replacement IM, and a new IM was in place 
around December 2020; 
discussions between him and the new IM (around August 2021, and up to around 
October 2021) about Tilneys service culminated in his complaint in December 2021; 
Tilney provided its formal response to the complaint in January 2022, when Mr M 
also withdrew its discretionary authority for the SIPP.
The main issues in the case are Mr Ms allegations that he was led, or misled, into the 
arrangement solely or mainly by the assurance Tilney gave him; that Tilney breached that 
assurance by ignoring his investment suggestions/instructions; that Tilney neglected his 
SIPP (with regards to not having a dedicated IM until December 2020); that Tilney 
misrepresented its service and service options up to his discovery of those options in 
January 2022; and that Tilney mismanaged his complaint (including the statements, denials 
and integrity issues he raised).
I address the last issue first, in order to explain that it is a matter outside my remit and that I 
will not be determining it. 
Complaint handling is not a regulated activity, and my remit is to determine cases about 
regulated activities. Sometimes a complaint to a firm and its handling (or mishandling) of it 
might form a part of the overall substantive claim (about a regulated activity). An example 
could be where mishandling of a complaint added to the substantive problem or delayed its 
resolution. In such an example, it might be necessary to address a firms complaint handling as part of the overall case. 
In Mr Ms case, his complaint in December 2021 and Tilneys handling of it thereafter all 
happened after the substantive complaint period in his case  that is, in the main, between 
August 2020 and August 2021. As he says, by the time of his complaint the damage he 
alleges had already been done. How the complaint was subsequently handled was remote 
to the alleged damage. Tilneys final response was to reject the majority of the complaint, 
with reasons, and to offer compensation for the single issue it conceded. It was entitled to 
make its own decision on the case, so that alone does not amount to delaying its resolution. 
Tilneys complaint handling is therefore an isolated matter that is distinct from Mr Ms 
substantive complaint. I do not have the remit to address it and I do not address it (or the 
issues related to it).
Tilneys Discretionary Service
In this section I will address Mr Ms engagement of this service, his claim about the 
assurance, and his claims about misrepresentation of the service and/or of the available 
service options.
When, in 2020, Mr M appointed Tilney to manage investments in his SIPP, he was not a 
novice to investments. It is his evidence that he had a specific tried and tested strategy for 
investments that he had actively used and/or developed in his personal investment activities 
since 2010. The conclusion that naturally follows is that he had the knowledge, experience 
and competence to self-manage the SIPP in 2020, if he so wished.
However, he did not wish to self-manage the SIPP in January 2020, when Tilney was 
appointed. His complaint submissions support this conclusion. He has said he did not want 
to be burdened with the day-to-day responsibilities of managing the SIPP. Even his 
submissions about the alleged assurance (and about the notion of him intervening in the 
SIPPs management) have been made in the context of him having the expectation that he 
could influence how the SIPP was managed when he wanted to. The idea of optional or ad 
hoc involvement in the SIPPs management is distinctly different from full responsibility for its 
ongoing management. As such, his argument about the alleged assurance is that he 
expected the former but did not want the latter.
The above findings are important because they depict a very clear level of awareness on   
Mr Ms part in terms of his appointment of Tilney. He essentially engaged Tilney to do what 
he was capable of doing himself, but did not want to do. I consider it a settled fact that he 
wanted Tilney to take primary and full responsibility for his SIPPs management. This finding 
 and the fact that he wanted Tilney to have full discretion in its responsibility for the SIPPs 
management  is further supported by the following: 
The suitability report issued to him in January 2020 confirmed an objective, on his 
part, not to have to make ongoing investment decisions and a preference for an 
expert to conduct day-to-day investment management for him. It also says he did not 
want to have any involvement in the management of his investments. There is no 
evidence that he disputed or corrected the report, at the time, in these respects so it 
stands as reliable evidence that he held these objective and preferences.
An appendix to the report confirmed that the TS6 based investment strategy (with 
between 76% and 80% exposure to equities) would be recommended for his SIPP. 
The appendix proceeded to summarise Tilneys discretionary investment 
management approach. Again, there is no evidence that he objected to these 
aspects at the time.As the investigator noted, the agreement Mr M signed on 7 January 2020 presented 
him with the option to choose between two investment management services  
discretionary or advisory. The former was clearly defined as a service in which Tilney 
would manage investments (with discretion) on his behalf, and the latter as one in 
which it would give investment recommendations but the final decisions will remain 
with him. Importantly, the section directly below (in the agreement) allowed for 
confirmation of any restrictions he wished to apply to the management of his 
portfolio. He selected the discretionary service and the assurance he has referred to 
is not stated in the section for restrictions, or anywhere else in the agreement. 
Nothing is stated in the section.
The agreement also confirms that he was aware of Tilneys advisory management 
service in January 2020  long before the discovery he says he made in January 
2022. That was the option he did not select, which shows that, at the time, he did not 
want an arrangement in which he retained the final decisions on Tilneys investment 
recommendations. Instead, he wanted an arrangement in which Tilney was given full 
authority and discretion to invest on his behalf.
The next question to consider is how the alleged assurance could have sat or was supposed 
to sit, if at all, within an arrangement in which Mr M had given Tilney full authority and 
discretion to manage his SIPP. 
I refer to is as an alleged assurance because Tilney disputes it, and for reasons I address 
further below. However, I do not suggest in any way that Mr Ms reference to it has been 
falsely made. I acknowledge the sincerity and conviction he has displayed in referring to it. I 
consider it possible that he genuinely believed he had a form of assurance that he could 
intervene in investment decisions for the SIPP. However, I also consider that what he 
presently says about the importance and strength of the alleged assurance has probably 
been said with the benefit of hindsight. 
He says it induced him to appoint Tilney and that he would not have done so otherwise. If 
that was the case, Tilneys rejection of his BUKM proposal, around a month after its 
appointment, should have been pivotal. That appears to have been the first test of the 
condition on which he says Tilney was appointed. It was an early test and the outcome was 
that he was not allowed to intervene in the SIPPs management. Tilney declined his 
proposal. 
If Tilneys appointment was conditional upon allowing intervention by Mr M, he would have 
probably reviewed, or perhaps terminated, the arrangement at the above point. Neither 
happened. Instead, the arrangement continued. Tilney declined further proposals from him 
later in 2020, and the arrangement continued thereafter. The arrangement remained in place 
as of his complaint in December 2021 and until he withdrew Tilneys authority in January 
2022. On balance, it is unlikely that the arrangement would have lasted for almost two years, 
during which interventions he sought to make were never allowed, if Tilneys appointment 
was as conditional as he has described.
Overall, the above analysis (and the facts on which it is based) does not support the notion 
that Tilney promised, or was obliged, to allow Mr Ms interventions into its discretionary 
service. Importantly, the analysis and associated facts also do not support his assertion that 
his ability to intervene was a core basis on which Tilney was appointed. Instead, the facts 
suggest the opposite, that such ability was not part of the arrangement that both parties 
agreed in January 2020.Tilney disputes the matter. It says it did not assure him that he could intervene and, as I 
addressed above, there is a lack of evidence to establish that it did. I am also persuaded by 
the argument it has made which says a distinction must be drawn between a firms 
readiness to listen to a client and take a clients views on board, on the one hand, and, on 
the hand, a client directly intervening in investment decisions within a firms discretionary 
management service. I agree. It was not unreasonable for Tilney to listen to Mr M or take his 
views on board, but it was not obliged to agree with or implement those views.
Evidence shows that Tilney took on board Mr Ms reluctance towards exposure to the 
markets around the onset of the pandemic. It considered and agreed with it and it 
suspended investment of the SIPP until he was prepared for such exposure. It also appears 
to be the case that it considered the BUKM suggestion. Both parties agree that it was 
discussed between them. However, the difference was that Tilney disagreed with this idea 
and did not follow it. Under its discretionary service, which is what Mr M opted for (over the 
advisory service), it was entitled to do that. 
My findings above address the notion of intervention in the SIPPs investments, and any 
associated claim that Tilney assured Mr M of his ability to do that. I acknowledge that the 
words he has used in his case are that he was assured his views will be taken on board. His 
wider submissions have led me to conclude that what he means is that there was an 
assurance by Tilney that his intervention in investment decisions, when he wished, will be 
allowed. For the reasons given above, I do not consider that was the case. If what he means 
is limited only to the aforementioned words, then I have not seen evidence that Tilney did not 
take on board his suggestions. It simply did not agree with or implement those it rejected.
Before concluding this section, I turn to Mr Ms allegation that he was misled to believe 
Tilney could implement his BUKM proposal, but later discovered that its service protocol 
prohibited such implementation. It is a fact that Tilney rejected the proposal. This alone could 
defeat the argument that it gave the impression it could implement it. If Mr M formed that 
impression because it engaged in discussing and/or considering the proposal, before 
rejecting it, I am not persuaded that amounted to Tilney misleading him. As I said above, it 
was not unreasonable for Tilney to take on board his views, so that is what it appears to 
have done in discussing and/or considering the proposal. Whether (or not) its protocol 
prohibited implementation of the proposal is arguably a moot point, given that it rejected, and 
never promised to implement, the proposal.
Management of Mr Ms SIPP investments
Tilney advised Mr M to transfer his pension into the SIPP, then it managed the SIPP. His 
case does not appear to allege that the transfer advice was wrong, instead his allegations 
are about the SIPPs management. In any case, evidence from the comprehensive suitability 
report Tilney issued to him at the outset (and that he accepted) shows that his instructions 
and objectives at the time were matched the transfer into the SIPP, and that Tilneys 
recommendation of the transfer was well-reasoned. 
The report also set out the investor profile, for Mr M, upon which Tilney had assessed 
suitability of its recommendation. His overall profile was assessed in detail and available 
evidence is that the assessment was accurate and agreed with him. Within that profile was 
his risk appetite rating of E, which was a rating for someone who sought a significant level 
of risk exposure (for the prospect of higher returns), who was prepared to compromise 
capital preservation for that purpose and who had capacity to cope with a loss of up to 20% 
per year.
Mr Ms mismanagement allegations relate to the TS6 to TS7 transition, the approach Tilney 
took towards investing his SIPP from August 2020 onwards and the IM replacement issue.On balance, I am persuaded that Mr Ms E risk rating influenced the recommendation of TS6 
at the outset, and that the recommendation was suitable for management of the SIPP. With 
allowance for up to 80% exposure to equities (including an allocation for emerging market 
equities), this strategy catered for the higher risk exposure and potential for higher returns 
that he wanted. TS6s definition also covered those, like Mr M, with capacity for loss of up to 
20% per year. 
Nevertheless, it is a fact that Mr M asked for a move to TS7 in August 2020. This was 
essentially his notice to Tilney that he had revised his approach to risk exposure, so even 
though Tilney had management discretion his notice went to the risk exposure setting in the 
mandate for that discretion. In other words, there was a change in his risk profile within the 
instruction, which revised the mandate in that respect and which should have been reflected 
in its management of the SIPP. For this reason, it was obliged to revise its approach towards 
the SIPPs investments upon receipt of the instruction. To its credit, Tilney does not appear 
to dispute this. Indeed, it has conceded that it reacted to the instruction late and ought not to 
have done so. It has also calculated and offered compensation for the issue. 
TS7 allowed up to 88% - 92% in exposure to equities. However, as I address below, the 
approach towards making investments remained at Tilneys discretion. As such, it does not 
follow that these levels of exposure ought to have been in place immediately, or within a 
specific period of time, after Mr Ms instruction, and it does not follow that the harm caused 
by Tilneys delay in reacting to the instruction happened in this respect. It did not. 
Tilneys reason for conceding the issue, with which I agree, is that the allocation for fixed 
income assets that existed in TS6 did not exist in TS7 at the time such an asset was bought 
(in the SIPP) in November 2020. That investment would not have been made if TS7 was 
being applied. It was sold in May 2021 and a net loss (after subtracting a dividend payment) 
of £1,286 was incurred  hence Tilneys compensation offer to Mr M of £1,500, to cover this 
net loss and the inconvenience caused to him. For these reasons, I agree with the offer. I am 
not persuaded to increase it. Around £200 within it is for the inconvenience caused by an 
investment that should not have happened. Loss from that investment has also been 
covered in the offer. Therefore, the inconvenience caused has been mitigated and the 
remainder in the offer, of around £200, is fair compensation for it.
Even if TS7 was activated in time, it remained for Tilney to invest the SIPP, from August 
2020, onwards as it saw fit. It had the authority and discretion to do that, and there does not 
appear to be any part of the agreed mandate or of the terms for either TS6 or TS7 that 
required a specific time-based investment approach. 
Tilney has referred to the measured steps it took at the time, given the market volatility and 
uncertainties (including with regards to market recovery) caused by the pandemic. It says its 
approach was to begin by drip feeding cash into investments, initially using around 40% of 
the portfolios cash. As Mr M acknowledges, between August and September part of his 
SIPPs cash was invested. That part equated to around 41% of the SIPPs cash value, so 
Tilney broadly maintained its approach in this initial use of capital. Thereafter, it says it held 
off further action pending the lead into the United States presidential election and Pfizers 
vaccine announcement in November, so around 56% of cash remained uninvested at the 
end of October 2020. By the end of November 2020 this had reduced to around 25%. 
Overall, on balance and given the circumstances in which Tilney had to operate, I do not 
consider that its investment approach in late 2020  which is the period Mr Ms complaint 
focuses on  was wrong. Its approach was compliant with its authority and mandate, and it 
reasonably took a form that adjusted to the state of the market and to relevant market and 
political events at the time. It is possible that Mr M might have had a better investment strategy for this period. I have 
noted his argument that this is not an assertion made in hindsight but is one that was valid at 
the relevant time. However, such an argument is irrelevant. The issue is whether (or not) 
Tilneys approach was wrong in the circumstances  not whether (or not) Mr M could have 
done better. Tilney was not obliged to accept his proposals, so the issue is also not about 
whether (or not) it could have done better if it followed his proposals. The balance of 
evidence, and my analysis above, shows that its approach towards investing the SIPP was 
not unreasonable, so I do not find that it mismanaged the SIPPs investments. 
Around the middle or 2020 Mr M asked for a new IM. It appears he did not find confidence in 
and/or a good working relationship with the IM he met during the February meeting. Tilney 
says it identified a replacement around that time, but the replacement was on a leave of 
absence until around October, so it decided to conduct the switch upon that persons return. 
In the meantime, the initial IM continued his work. The early SIPP investments were made 
with his involvement and the later investments were made with the replacement IMs 
involvement.
Overall and on balance, even though Mr M appears to have had an IM he did not want 
between mid and late 2020, I do not agree that his SIPP was left without management or 
without an IM during this period. Evidence shows otherwise. Evidence also shows that the 
change of IMs did not adversely affect the investment of his SIPP. He proceeded to have a 
working relationship with the replacement IM from late 2020 onwards.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman