DRN-3348071
Complaint
Mr W has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr W bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded using a 
Santander credit card, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr W into believing that the panels would be self-funding within 9 years, which they werent.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mr W, and that fair redress would be for Santander to 
calculate the likely benefits the solar panels would provide over a nine-year period. This 
calculation should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a 
number of assumptions on future performance. And Mr W should be charged no more than 
this amount.
Santander didnt agree  it said that any figures given to Mr W were estimates and not 
guarantees, so it didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The case was therefore 
passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Mr W says he was told that the total financial benefits provided by the solar panel system 
would cover the overall costs associated with the system within 9 years. 
I can see in the quote provided by the installer explicitly says the payback year is year 9. The 
annual estimated savings over a 20-year period listed are exceptionally high, which does 
indicate the cost of the solar panels would be recouped within that time period. 
I understand Santander feels that any figures given to Mr W were estimates and not 
guarantees and this was made clear in the documentation. However, as our adjudicator 
pointed out, while I accept that the figures quoted were not guarantees, we would still expect 
any representations made to not be mis-leading, to be drawn from data and any 
assumptions made to be reasonable. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr W was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding within 9 years and that it would 
equate to an additional cost for him.
So, I think that Santander didnt treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Santander 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr W. 
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for Santander to put things right by calculating the known 
and assumed savings and income to Mr W from the solar panels over a 9 year period, so he 
pays no more than that. Santander must pay him the difference between that amount and 
the total amount he paid for the panels. 
I also direct that interest must be paid on that sum at the rate of 8% a year (simple) from the
date of the purchase to the date of settlement. 
Mr W may also keep the solar panel system, as removing it would be impractical and
expensive.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr W has paid more than he should have, then 
Santander needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr W by way of explanation.  
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr W first 
contacted Santander that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Santander 
should pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman