DRN-3340971
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (TUL) settled a claim under his motor 
insurance policy for less than his vehicle was worth.
What happened
Mr G says in October 2021, an incident happened which caused flood damage to his 
vehicle. This then resulted in Mr Gs vehicle being written off. TUL offered Mr G £10,430 as 
the final valuation amount of his vehicle. Mr G doesnt feel this offer is a fair reflection of the 
value as he said hes seen for vehicles that were either similar or identical to his were valued 
at around £12,800 to £16,500. So, Mr G wants TUL to increase their offer by £2,500.
TUL assessed Mr Gs claim and told him that his vehicle would be a total loss due to water 
ingress when it was flooded. TUL also say the valuation of £10,430 included a deduction of 
£500 for pre-existing damage which were scuffed alloy wheels. And that they took into 
account the mileage on the vehicle was 70,000 - but the average mileage for the year and 
make of Mr Gs vehicle was 76,000. Mr G says he sought quotes for refurbishing the alloy 
wheels prior to the incident happening and he received quotes of £80 and £85 per wheel for 
the repairs. So, Mr G said hes unhappy with the £500 TUL have included in the overall 
value of the vehicle for pre-existing damage to the alloy wheels.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns. In summary he explained TUL are only 
required to pay the market value of Mr Gs vehicle at the time of the incident. And that Mr Gs 
policy explained what market value meant. So, overall, our Investigator thought TULs 
valuation was fair.
Mr G didnt agree. He sent in further information showing that the price of used vehicles has 
increased in value recently. Mr G felt the guides used to value his vehicle are out of date, 
unrealistic and unfair. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G's policy says that it will settle a total loss claim for the market value. The policy gives 
the following definition of market value:
The cost of replacing the vehicle with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
My role is not to value Mr Gs vehicle, but to make sure TUL have settled his claim fairly, 
reasonably and in line with his policy.
Our approach to assessing a fair market value takes into account what the motor trade 
guides say the market value is. Mr G has told us he wouldve expected the vehicle to have 
attracted a value of around £13,000 as theres been in an increase in value for used 
vehicles. So, Mr G feels the motor trade guides we use are out of date. I appreciate Mr Gs 
concern, however, the guides are based on extensive national research of likely selling 
prices, so they give a good reflection of the true market value of a vehicle. The guides are 
regularly updated, and use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely 
selling prices would have been. So, I think its more likely than not that the values are current 
and relevant. 
Mr Gs insurance policy would only cover him immediately before the event that caused the 
loss i.e. the flood damage. Therefore, the value of Mr Gs vehicle would be what it was worth 
at the time of the loss. So, while the value of Mr Gs vehicle may have been different had the 
event happened at a later date, I can only look at the point TUL valued Mr Gs vehicle and 
whether they offered a fair valuation.
TUL took into account the trade guides and offered Mr G £10,430 after considering the pre-
existing damage to the alloy wheels and the mileage done on the vehicle at the time. Our 
Investigator carried out checks on the trade guides and they returned values of:
CAP £10,350
Glasss £10,610
Cazana (now known as Cazoo) £11,597
This would mean the range of values would be from £10,350 to £11,597. 
I note Mr G says he sought independent quotes for refurbishing the alloy wheels prior to the 
incident and that the quotes were for £80 and £85 for each wheel. Therefore, he doesnt 
agree that TUL are treating him fairly when making the adjustment of £500 for this damage 
to the overall value they gave for his vehicle.
We asked Mr G for evidence of these quotes, but he said he received these quotes over the 
telephone. So, he wasnt able to provide us with the evidence. However, he did send us 
information of an online site which gives a guide on alloy wheel refurbishment cost. Ive 
considered what Mr G has provided us with, however, I dont find this evidence to be 
persuasive. I say this because the site Mr G has provided us with is just a guide on repair 
prices and isnt specific to the existing damage of Mr Gs alloy wheels. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably rely on this evidence.
TUL have provided us with an engineers report which details the condition of the vehicle 
after the flood damage incident. The report details the pre incident condition of the vehicle as 
average and makes a note that the alloy wheels were scuffed. The report also included 
photos of the vehicle including of the alloy wheels. The engineer concluded that in order to 
return the vehicle to its retail condition, it would cost a minimum of £1,000 (before a 
deduction of 50% in line with our services guidelines was made). As this inspection was 
carried out on Mr Gs vehicle after the incident had occurred, I find the report to be 
persuasive. Therefore, in the absence of any other persuasive evidence, I dont think TUL 
acted unfairly when deducting £500 off the value of Mr Gs vehicle for the pre-existing 
damage to the alloy wheels. 
With all this in mind, as TULs offer is within the range mentioned above, Im satisfied they 
placed a fair valuation on Mr Gs vehicle and have settled the claim in line with the policy 
terms.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman