DRN-3788712
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the way Fairmead Insurance Limited handled a claim she made on 
her buildings insurance policy following an escape of water at her property.
What happened
References to Mrs G and Fairmead include respective representatives and agents unless 
stated otherwise.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.
Mrs G owns a property insured by a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
Fairmead. In October 2017, the property experienced damage following an escape of 
water from an under-floor water mains and Mrs G made a claim on the policy.
The claim was accepted and a specialist appointed to manage the claim and the 
remedial work. A number of complaints were raised through the early life of the claim 
and Fairmead awarded compensation totalling £1,000 for delays and poor claim 
handling. This Service considered Fairmeads actions and concluded this amount 
was fair. 
Fairmead made a cash settlement offer of £36,000 which Mrs G says was subject to 
an agreement that no further work would be claimed for. Mrs G was unhappy with the 
schedule of works and didnt think they accurately reflected either the details of her 
house or the remedial work required. She says Fairmead refused to consider the 
voids she said had formed under the floor following the escape of water. She 
accused Fairmeads agent of professional negligence and malpractice. 
Unhappy with Fairmeads progress and refusal to consider the other damage, Mrs G 
appointed a loss assessor to help deal with the claim. Fairmead appointed a loss 
adjuster to manage the claim, removing the originally appointed agent. 
In early Summer 2019, a joint site visit took place and Fairmead accepted the 
damage was worse than first thought  including that water had washed away 
material under the kitchen  and that more extensive remedial work was required. A 
new schedule of work was put together and estimated to be in the region of 
£100,000. 
The work was put out to tender by Mrs Gs loss assessor and sometime later a 
contractor was agreed. Mrs G moved to alternative accommodation in October 2019. 
After more back and forth the work commenced in January 2020. 
There were some delays caused by further discussions about plumbing requirements 
and then the Covid pandemic impacted progress too. Mrs G moved back into the 
property in July 2020 and work continued until early Autumn 2020.
Mrs G remained unhappy with Fairmeads claim handling and made a further 
complaint. It accepted it should have provided better service and acknowledged its 
shortcomings including, but not limited to, taking longer than it should have to identify 
the damage to the floor void and approving the kitchen specification. But it didnt 
accept it had been professionally negligent. It apologised and offered a further 
£1,000 compensation.
Mrs G raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator considered the evidence 
and explained we could only look at the complaint from September 2018 onwards as 
wed already looked at a complaint about Fairmeads actions before this.
He explained we couldnt look at professional negligence but could consider the 
impact of Fairmeads complaint handling and any delays. He said Fairmeads 
payment of an additional £1,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
had caused was fair and reasonable. Mrs G thought she should receive considerably 
more than this and suggested £10,000 would be more reflective of the impact on her. 
She asked an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to say how a complaint should be 
resolved quickly and with minimal formality. That means I will focus on what I 
consider to be the crux of the matter and wont always comment on everything the 
parties have said but I can confirm I have considered everything even where I dont 
reference it specifically.
It seems clear to me from the evidence and phone call on file, Mrs Gs main concern 
is around her belief Fairmeads agent was guilty of professional negligence or 
malpractice. She wants to protect others from this kind of experience and would like 
to punish the business for the impact on her. This Service doesnt have powers to 
punish or penalise firms, nor is it best placed to make a decision on this kind of 
accusation. Mrs G may wish to seek legal advice if she wishes to pursue a 
professional negligence claim.
But I can consider the impact of Fairmeads complaint handling including its initial 
stance on the remedial work that was required and the impact this had on the 
progress of the claim.
Fairmead acknowledged its failure to recognise the extent of the damage from the 
initial survey in Summer 2018 to when it eventually accepted this in Summer 2019. It 
accepts there was reluctance on its part to implement the findings of the structural 
engineer who first identified movement under the kitchen caused by leaking water 
washing material away. 
I agree it should have recognised this earlier and it shouldnt have needed so much 
effort on Mrs Gs part to get it to. It caused delays and distress and inconvenience 
because of this. 
And while I accept that costs of remedial work will often escalate as a complex claim 
like this progresses, the extent of the escalation suggests to me, Fairmeads initial 
assessment was considerably off the mark and demonstrates the extent of the 
underestimation of the remedial work required.There were a number of other issues through the claim including delays in the 
approval of the bespoke kitchen and delays and problems sourcing alternative 
accommodation while the property was uninhabitable. All told, it took in excess of two 
years for repairs to be approved. 
If things hadnt gone on as long as they did, Covid might not have had such an 
impact and Mrs G may have been able to move home again more quickly.
I acknowledge Mrs F found the claim very stressful to deal with and she says 
Fairmeads actions and delays caused her mental health problems. She says this 
meant she was unable to find a new job and missed out on 12 months of 
employment. While I empathise with Mrs G, I havent seen any evidence which 
persuades me Fairmeads actions were directly responsible for this inability to work 
or the loss of income. But I have borne in mind the stress Mrs G says she 
experienced.
Ive thought about this complaint very carefully. Its clear to me, Fairmead let Mrs G 
down and didnt provide the level of service Id expect  in short, it failed in its duty to 
handle the claim promptly and fairly. I know Mrs G says if she had accepted 
Fairmeads initial assessment of the damage and settlement offer of £36,000  
including entering into the agreement no further damage would be claimed for - her 
home was likely to have become significantly more damaged over time and she 
would have faced considerable personal expenditure. 
But I have to keep in mind she didnt accept this initial assessment or offer and 
eventually Fairmead agreed to a much higher settlement which covered more 
extensive remedial work, albeit with considerable effort on Mrs Gs part. So while the 
damage could have been a lot worse, in reality it wasnt. And I cant make awards for 
things that might have happened under different circumstances, only what actually 
did happen.
Having weighed everything up, and keeping in mind all Ive said above, Ive 
concluded the £1,000 Fairmead has already paid Mrs G is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G also says a number of out-of-pocket expenses related to storage of personal 
items and travel expenses while she was in alternative accommodation havent been 
reimbursed. Mrs G would need to complain to Fairmead about this in the first 
instance and then bring another complaint to this Service if she remains unhappy 
with its response.
In conclusion, I wont be asking Fairmead to do anymore on this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman