DRN-2047421
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Mrs K says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs K opened a store card account in a shop in 1998. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Ks store card 
each month if shed made a successful claim for injury, sickness or unemployment. It also 
included some purchase protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs K says the sales assistant mentioned the PPI, but didnt mention that it was optional. 
She says she was told it was a condition of the card and just part of the overall finance 
she was getting. She says she questioned whether she needed the PPI, as she was only 
looking for a store card. And she says she was told that it was, and she wasnt to worry 
as it would be good for her. She says she wouldnt have taken the PPI if shed known it 
was optional. She says she was just told where to sign, and if she'd known that the 
insurance was optional, she wouldn't have taken it.
Ive been provided with a copy of Mrs Ks application form for the store card. It includes a 
section on Account Cover (a form of PPI). Theres a box for the applicant to sign 
specifically if they wanted to take out the cover. It says Only sign this box if you require 
Account Cover. Mrs K signed the box, indicating that she wished to take the cover, in 
addition to signing the form overall.
Im satisfied that the way that the PPI was presented on the form made it clear that it was 
optional. Mrs K has mentioned that the sales adviser told her where to sign to complete 
the store card application, and she signed for the PPI because she was under the 
impression that it was needed in order to complete the application. But the form was 
reasonably concise, and I think Mrs K could reasonably have been expected to check it 
over before signing it. On balance, I think its most likely that Mrs K decided to take the 
cover, knowing that she didn't have to - although its understandable if shes forgotten 
this, given that the sale took place more than 20 years ago.
Mrs K told us the sales assistant advised her to take the PPI. AXA says the policy was 
sold without advice. Based on what we know about the way AXA sold these policies at 
the time, I think its unlikely that a personal recommendation would have been made to 
Mrs K. If it was, AXA would have had a responsibility to check that the policy was 
suitable for Mrs K. But even if Mrs K was advised to take out the PPI, I dont think it was 
unsuitable for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time.
I acknowledge that Mrs Ks told us that shed have been entitled to six months full pay, 
followed by six months half pay from her employer if shed been off sick. Shes also told 
us shed have been entitled to a redundancy package. But the policy would potentially 
have paid out for longer than Mrs K would have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats 
more, it would have paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay that Mrs K 
received from her employer. So she could have used any payments from her employer to 
meet other expenses. 
Ive borne in mind that Mrs Ks mentioned that the average time an employee takes off 
sick is just a few days. But insurance is designed to protect the policyholder against 
unexpected events, such as more extended periods off work. And taking everything into 
account, I think the PPI could have been useful for Mrs K, especially as shes told us that 
aside from payments from her employer, she didnt have any other means she could 
have used to make her monthly store card repayments if shed been off sick, or if she 
lost her job.
I dont know exactly what was said when Mrs K applied for the card and PPI. And 
I accept that its possible the information AXA gave her about the PPI wasn't as clear as 
it should have been. But based on what Mrs K's told us about her circumstances at the 
time, she was eligible for the policy, and she doesn't appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things it didn't cover.
Its possible that AXA could have given Mrs K clearer information about the cost of the 
PPI. But Im not convinced this would have affected her decision to take it out. Ive 
mentioned that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mrs K chose to take out the policy when she 
didn't have to. So she seems to have wanted it at the time, even if shes understandably 
forgotten this now, so many years later. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy 
was unaffordable for her. If she didn't use the card a lot, the PPI wouldn't cost her very 
much. If she did, the protection the policy offered could have been helpful to her. The 
premiums would have shown on Mrs K's store card statements. And as she was paying 
for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time if her situation changed, or if she 
decided she no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs K off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result of 
anything AXA may have done wrong.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman