DRN-3698771
The complaint
Mr Cs complained  on behalf of his late mother, Mrs Cs, estate  that Scottish Widows 
Limited declined to pay out on Mrs Cs life policy because they said Mrs C had made a 
misrepresentation in her application.
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs C noticed an abnormality in one of her breasts.  She consulted her GP, 
who referred her for further tests.
A few days after her GP appointment, Mrs C used an adviser to apply for a life insurance 
policy with Scottish Widows.  She was asked a series of questions about her health and 
family history.  The application was successful and covered started the same day.
In early June, Mrs Cs doctor confirmed a diagnosis of breast cancer.  
In August 2020, Mrs Cs policy was randomly selected for sampling.  Scottish Widows 
contacted her and her financial adviser to let them know, and to get Mrs Cs consent to 
request her medical records.  Mrs C didnt reply.  But her financial adviser called Scottish 
Widows and told them Mrs C had had some bad news and wasnt able to deal with them.   
Scottish Widows decided not to pursue the sampling.  The financial adviser later told 
Scottish Widows Mrs C had been diagnosed with cancer.    
Mrs C sadly passed away in late 2021.  As her next of kin, Mr C submitted a claim.  Scottish 
Widows reviewed medical evidence from Mrs Cs GP and declined it.  They explained that 
Mrs C had answered a number of medical questions as part of the application  including 
one which said:
Have you had any of these in the last 3 months, even if you haven't seen a doctor?... 
Options - Any lump, growth or hardening affecting either breast. 
Scottish Widows said Mrs C should have answered yes to this question, because of her 
recent GP consultation.  Mr C complained.  Scottish Widows investigated and confirmed 
their decision to decline the claim because they said that, had they been aware of the 
investigations into Mrs Cs health, they wouldnt have offered the policy.  They arranged to 
refund the premiums Mrs C had paid.
Although Scottish Widows didnt change their decision about cover, they did recognise that 
the long calls and exchanges with their claims assessor werent of a satisfactory standard.  
They paid Mr C £500 compensation for this, as well as £9.00 for the cost of his calls.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Scottish Widows resolution and brought his complaint to our 
service.  He told us he thought Scottish Widows should have followed up the sampling  
and, if theyd done that, Mrs C would have been able to look for an alternative policy.
Our investigator reviewed it and concluded Scottish Widows didnt need to do anything more 
to resolve it.  She was satisfied that Scottish Widows had showed Mrs C had misrepresented 
her health when she made her application.  And she was satisfied that theyd dealt with this 
in line with the relevant legislation, which is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA).  
In respect of the sampling the investigator said that, had Scottish Widows pursued this in 
2020, it was most likely the policy would have been cancelled.  So she couldnt say Scottish 
Widows should pay the sum assured.  And, while she couldnt speculate, she thought it 
unlikely that Mrs C would have been able to arrange alternative cover following her 
diagnosis.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Cs made on behalf of Mrs Cs estate.  
Ill explain why.
I appreciate Scottish Widows declining to pay the sum assured under the policy caused Mr C 
upset at what was already a difficult time for him.  But I can only say Scottish Widows should 
do more to resolve the complaint hes made if I think theyve not acted fairly towards Mrs Cs 
estate and havent applied the relevant law.
The relevant law in this case is CIDRA. This requires consumers  in this case, Mrs C - to 
take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract (a policy).  The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation.  For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care.  And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive thought about the question Mrs C was asked  which is quoted above.  I think its clear.  
And Mrs C answered it just a few days after shed seen her GP because she was concerned 
about a breast lump.  So I think its fair to say she didnt take reasonable care when she 
answered it no.
Scottish Widows have provided their underwriting criteria showing that, had the question 
been answered correctly, they would not have offered cover at that time.  So Im satisfied 
Mrs Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
It appears that Scottish Widows has classified Mrs Cs misrepresentation as careless, 
because theyve refunded the premiums she paid to her estate.  
Mr C doesnt accept his mother made any sort of misrepresentation.  But, given how clear 
the question is, and how recently Mrs C had consulted her GP, I dont think its plausible to 
say she could have forgotten about this.  As its not possible to gather any further evidence, I 
think its fair to conclude Mrs Cs misrepresentation was careless  and that Scottish Widows 
have dealt with it in line with CIDRA, by refunding her premiums.
Ive seen that, when he contacted us, Mr C wanted the policy proceeds to be paid.  But I can 
only say Scottish Widows should do something differently if Im satisfied they made a mistake which had a negative impact on Mrs Cs estate.  As I think they followed whats set 
out in CIDRA, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct that.
Nor can I say Mr C should receive compensation from Scottish Widows.  Our rules say we 
can only make an award to someone whos an eligible complainant.  The eligible 
complainant in this case is Mrs Cs estate  not Mr C.  So, while Im pleased to see Scottish 
Widows have compensated him for what they thought was poor service, the £509 hes 
received is more than I could have required them to pay.   
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Cs complaint that his mother was prevented from buying an 
alternative policy because they failed to pursue the sampling while she was alive.
I understand the logic of Mr Cs argument.  But, as our investigator explained, we cant be 
satisfied that doing so would have led to a different outcome.  I think its unlikely that, had 
she provided accurate information about her diagnosis, Mrs C would have been able to buy 
alternative cover.  The premiums have been refunded.  In the circumstances I think its 
unreasonable for me to say Scottish Widows should have done any more.  And so I dont 
think they need to do any more to resolve the complaint Mr Cs made on behalf of Mrs Cs 
estate.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Cs made about Scottish 
Widows Limited on behalf of Mrs Cs estate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman