Complaint
Mrs W says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
Mrs W bought the policy in 2002 when she applied for a credit card over the internet. This 
policy covered Mrs W if she lost her job or couldn't work through an accident or sickness. It 
cost £0.74 per £100 of the outstanding balance on her credit card and would have been paid 
for up to 12 months if Mrs W made a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I know Mrs W will find this disappointing, so Ill 
explain why.
Canada Square had to make it clear to Mrs W that PPI was optional and that she had a fair 
choice about whether to take it out. The policy was taken out while Mrs W was applying for 
her credit card over the internet. Canada Square has sent examples of the screens she likely 
wouldve completed at the time, one of which included a PPI section. The PPI section 
includes equally prominent yes  and no options for PPI. I think its unlikely PPI wouldve 
been added to Mrs Ws account unless she completed the yes box. 
Ive seen some of the monthly statements Mrs W would have been sent by Canada Square. 
And I can see that PPI is referred to as credit card repayment protector. So, I think its likely 
Mrs W would have noticed that she was paying for an additional product. And if it wasnt 
something Mrs W wanted, or had chosen, Id expect her to have questioned it at an early 
stage. But Ive not seen any evidence that she did.
Taking everything into account, I think Canada Square made it clear that Mrs W didn't have 
to take out the PPI, and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this after so many years.
Mrs Ws application was made online. Ive seen no evidence that she spoke to anyone from 
Canada Square during the application. So, I dont think its likely that a representative from 
Canada Square gave Mrs W a personal recommendation or advised her to take out the PPI. 
DRN-1540701As a non-advised sale that meant that Canada Square didn't have to check that the policy 
was suitable for her. However, it still had to give Mrs W clear information about the policy so 
she could decide about whether it was right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square provided couldve been clearer, but I dont think 
clearer information wouldve changed Mrs Ws mind about buying the cover. I say this 
because:
Mrs W was eligible for the policy and as she was working and didn't have any pre-
existing medical condition, she doesn't appear to have been affected by any of the
main exclusions or limitations that might have made it more difficult to make a
successful claim.
As Ive explained, this policy wouldve covered 10% of Mrs Ws monthly balance on
her credit card for up to 12 months if she lost her job or was too ill to work. Mrs W
has said she would receive at least six months full sick pay from her employer
followed by six months half sick pay. But the PPI could have paid a benefit for longer
than her full sick pay would have lasted. So, I still think Mrs W would have found it
useful if she couldn't work, particularly if she was unwell for a prolonged period.
Mrs W has told us that she could have also relied on her partner or her family would
have been able to help if she fell into difficulty. She also said she had some savings
she could rely on. The PPI policy would have enabled her to pay the credit card
repayments without relying on her family or her partner. If Mrs W lost her job the
household income overall would have likely reduced. Whilst I have no doubt it would
have been Mrs Ws family and partners intention to help this type of help is not
always guaranteed for a prolonged period as and when it is needed as
circumstances can change. And the PPI would have meant any savings Mrs W had
could be used for any important everyday expenses or kept intact if things went
wrong.
In summary, its possible the information Canada Square gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But as Ive explained above, it looks as if she chose to take out 
the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been 
useful for her if she couldn't work or lost her job. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put off Mrs W from taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 
5 August 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman