DRN-3325404
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc refuses to refund payments he made to investment 
scammers. 
What happened
Mr B was interested in increasing his retirement fund to add to his pension. He was 
interested in trading because hed heard about large profits that could be gained and he 
wanted to boost his savings. 
Around August 2017, he came across a company called Algotechs online and shortly after, 
he received a call from them. The individual advised that they were a personal broker and 
they could help him gain significantly. 
Mr B agreed to invest smaller sums to start with using his Visa debit card  linked to his 
current account with HSBC. When he saw his profits grow, he was persuaded by the broker 
to invest more. As Mr Bs profits were growing, he also decided to invest with companies 
called Cryptokartal and StockSwiss.
Between 13 September 2017 to 24 July 2018 Mr B made multiple Visa debit card payments 
to the scammers totalling £45,508.29. In November 2018, Mr B tested Algotechs withdrawal 
system and successfully withdrew €22,500. Mr B was persuaded to invest another €20,000 
in January 2019 which he did. 
From April 2019 to June 2019, the available balances in Mr Bs Algotechs trading account 
were depleted to zero. He realised it was all a scam.
Mr B contacted HSBC for help with recovering his payments. HSBC asked Mr B for copies of 
his trading logs with the available balance and a copy of his withdrawal request. After 
reviewing the evidence supplied by Mr B, HSBC concluded the payments he made prior to 
24 October 2017 were outside the time limits set by Visa. It noted the retailer had processed 
refunds totalling £20,131.78 directly to Mr Bs account as part of his first withdrawal request. 
HSBC concluded it was unable to assist. 
After HSBCs final response to Mr B advising its Complex Team were unable to provide a 
refund, Mr B referred his complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators didnt think that HSBC should refund any of Mr Bs losses. She 
explained that chargeback wouldnt have been an option for him because he didnt provide 
the evidence required by Visa. She also didnt consider the payments were out of the 
ordinary when reviewing the normal operation of Mr Bs account. 
Mr B didnt agree. He felt HSBC, as a responsible financial institution, should have done 
more to protect him  particularly when considering the good industry practice that was 
applicable at the time of his payments. He noted that in the last few months, HSBC had put 
new security policies in place and it was a pity these were not in place when he thought he 
was dealing with honest brokers.
 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme  in this case Visa -
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or 
be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr B.
HSBC concluded it had no chargeback rights that covered the situation Mr B found himself 
in. It explained Mr B had already successfully withdrawn money following his initial 
withdrawal request and he didnt have any other evidence that would enable it to process 
chargeback claims. It also concluded some of the disputed payments were made too late. 
I agree that the payments made prior to 24 October 2017 would have been outside Visas 
time limits. Any investment trading disputes would needed to have been raised within 120 
days of the date of the transactions. As Mr B contacted HSBC in April 2019, this was clearly 
more than 120 days after the date of his September 2017 payments. 
On 14 October 2017, Visa expanded its rules to cover scenarios where binary/forex trading 
merchants refused to allow cardholders to withdraw their available balances from their 
trading accounts. This would have been applicable to Mr Bs Visa debit card payments from 
24 October 2017 to 24 July 2018. Visa required specific dated evidence that showed that Mr 
B had available balances on the same day he tried to withdraw them. Ive not seen that Mr B 
provided evidence that shows his withdrawal requests (at the time he had an available 
balance) were not honoured. And given his testimony about his depleting available balance 
around the time he contacted HSBC, I dont think he would have been able to obtain it. So, I 
dont think HSBC acted unreasonably by not processing chargeback claims for Mr B 
because he didnt have the required evidence for it to have done so. 
Fraud prevention
I dont think HSBC could reasonably have prevented the payments Mr B lost. This is 
because at the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a customer 
authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and terms and 
conditions of the account, Mr B is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where he authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, much of which Mr B has correctly referenced, HSBC should have taken proactive 
steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. Ive first thought about whether HSBC could have identified that Mr B was paying a potential 
scammer but Ive noted that he didnt pay Algotechs, Cryptokartel or StockSwiss directly and 
there was no credible adverse information (such as regulator warnings) about the merchant 
that took his payments. So I dont think HSBC could reasonably have suspected Mr B was 
paying a scammer from the details of the merchant he was paying. 
Ive therefore thought about whether HSBC should have suspected Mr B could be falling 
victim to a potential fraud or scam, based on any significant change in the normal pattern of 
his spending. 
Ive taken into account what Mr B has said but I dont think the payments here were 
sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to reasonably say HSBC shouldnt have 
allowed the payments through without first getting in touch with Mr B to check everything 
was in order. Mr B made between one to two debit card payments per month to the 
scammers over the course of ten months with the largest individual debit card payment 
being around £6,500. He made a final payment of £18,462.09 on 9 January 2019  which 
was much larger than his other payments but I dont think these payments would have 
appeared out of the ordinary to HSBC. 
I say this because Mr B made much larger card and online banking payments towards 
undisputed investment opportunities within the seven months leading up to the scam. For 
example:
Mr B made an undisputed debit card payment of £50,000 to an investment company 
on 6 March 2017. 
On 6 April 2017, Mr B made a debit card payment of £15,239 to an investment 
company.
On 8 May 2017, Mr B made an undisputed debit card payment of £20,000 to an 
investment company.
On 14 May 2018, Mr B made an online transfer of £25,000 to a currency exchange 
company. 
I appreciate the payments to the scammers were to overseas recipients and this wasnt all 
that common for Mr B but I dont think this on its own, ought to have caused HSBC to 
suspect that he was falling victim to a scam. I say this especially because Mr B commonly 
made larger payments towards investment opportunities. 
This means that as HSBC didnt interact with Mr B at the time of the payments  and Ive 
concluded that I cant reasonably say HSBC ought to have been obliged to have gotten in 
touch with Mr B about them  Im satisfied HSBC didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent the payments before they were sent. 
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr B and he will understandably feel aggrieved 
about his loss. But for the reasons set out above, I dont consider it fair to hold HSBC liable 
for this.
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Bs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman