DRN-2849635
The complaint
Mr L complained about Nationwide Building Society. He said hed paid more into a cash 
machine than Nationwide had credited to him. Nationwide refused to credit him with the 
disputed £80. 
  
What happened
 On 6 April 2020, Mr L wanted to pay £2,500 in cash into his Nationwide account. He said he 
counted it carefully at home first, straightening out any folded corners etc which might cause 
the machine to reject the notes.
Mr L went to a Nationwide branch, and saw there was a new cash machine outside the 
branch with a cash deposit facility, so he used that. Mr L split the notes into three roughly 
equal piles, and paid the first batch in. The machine recorded a deposit of £820. Mr L then 
put a second batch in, which registered as £840, but the machine made a lot of mechanical 
noise and rejected some notes, which came out of the machine crumpled. 
Mr L went inside the branch to sit and count the remaining money, including the notes which 
the machine had rejected. The total was £760. So the total of £820, £840 and £760 came to 
£2,420, not the £2,500 which Mr L believed hed brought with him. 
Mr L spoke to a Nationwide adviser about what had happened, saying that the cash machine 
must have registered £80 less than it should have done. The adviser told Mr L that the 
machine would be checked twice that week, and any cash found inside would be credited to 
Mr Ls account at that point.
But Mr L was worried, and the next day he rang Nationwides head office. He also kept 
monitoring his account, but no extra credit appeared. On 14 April, Mr L went to the branch 
again, and was told that the branch had raised it with head office, and hed hear back within 
nine working days. Mr L didnt hear, so he complained on 28 April.
At 13:53 on 4 May, Mr L received an email saying Can I confirm your concerns are  you 
paid in £2,500 however only £2,420 was credited. The email gave him until 12 pm the next 
day to confirm this, and also to add more details.
Mr L replied the same afternoon, and set out full details of what had happened. He gave his 
phone number and said hed be willing to take a call if Nationwides investigator wished to 
discuss it.
At 10:22 the next morning, Nationwide sent a brief email to say that the branch manager had 
arranged a review of the machine, and there hadnt been any cash stuck in the machine. 
The email asked Mr L to confirm he was happy for his complaint to be closed and said I 
would hope to hear from you by 1pm today, should I not hear from you I will issue our final 
response.
Mr L replied at 10:58, saying:
 No, I am not happy for you to close this complaint, I am left wondering what the point of 
raising it was if all you are going to do is speak to the people I've already spoken to then tell 
me you're going to do nothing about the problem. Your machine took cash from me and did 
not credit my account with the amount which had been put in
I repeat, No, please do not just fob me off and close this complaint, it has not been dealt 
with!
Nationwide didnt reply to this but issued its final response letter. It repeated that the branch 
manager had investigated the branchs cash machines. Both machines had balanced, and 
the checks had shown there was no cash stuck inside the machine. So Nationwide didnt 
uphold Mr Ls complaint, and refused to credit his account with the disputed £80.
Mr L contacted this service. He set out what had happened, and said he wanted Nationwide 
to take responsibility for their cash machine, and credit his account with the disputed £80. Mr 
L told us that as a result of what happened, he had no faith either in Nationwide or in cash 
machines.  He explained that this is unfortunate with the closure of more bank branches, 
which means machines are becoming the only way to access banking services.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. She looked at the machine records, and said 
that if there had been a problem with retaining notes, the notes would have been found 
jammed inside the machine, or in the machines reject bin. No notes had been found, 
either by the Nationwide adviser or by the engineer. The machine had balanced and there 
hadnt been any extra money. The investigator appreciated that Mr L had been careful when 
counting and depositing the notes, but she believed the machines showed that what Mr L 
had deposited had been £2,420.
Mr L said he was disappointed that the investigator had concluded hed miscounted the 
cash, and that shed dismissed the possibility that the new machine, fitted days earlier, could 
have been at fault, even though it had clearly chewed up and rejected out some of the cash. 
Mr L explained that his professional career means he has a strong sense of accuracy, and 
he was absolutely certain that hed counted out £2,500 and had put the full amount in. He 
believed the missing money had either been caught up in the mechanism, or had been 
pushed back out after hed left. He believed the loss was due to a fault in the mechanism, for 
which he held Nationwide responsible. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In that provisional decision, I looked first at 
the machine records, to see whether these could help determine what happened. As 
Nationwide said, the records didnt show any extra money left in the machine when it was 
checked. But the records didnt show every detail of what happened  for example exactly 
what happened when the machine jammed and rejected some of Mr Ls notes.  
All the machine records could tell us was that after Nationwides cashier had checked and 
left the machine, there was no surplus money in it. Nationwides policy is for one sole cashier 
to check a machine after a fault. 
Nationwide also told us that cash machines dont return any money unless a card is still in 
the machine. So I ruled out the possibility that the machine might have returned £80, which 
could have been picked up by someone else, after Mr L had gone inside the branch.Nationwide said that when the engineer came later, there was no cash left in the machine. 
But I didnt consider this helps determine what happened, because at that point the cashier 
had already checked for cash left in the machine.
So none of the technical options determined for certain what really happened. I went on to 
look at the evidence provided by Mr L and by the cashier who checked the machine.
Mr Ls testimony was unusually detailed. It was also backed up by his previous behaviour in 
the cash deposits he made to his account  hed paid in a total of £2,500 cash on five recent 
previous occasions. These had all been paid in in more than one credit, consistent with a 
large bundle of notes being split and put into the machine separately. This was important to 
note, because it supports the fact that Mr Ls visit to the branch that day was to pay in 
£2,500 in cash, as he had done, without issue, on a number of occasions before.
Nationwides cashier said that he remembered the incident. He said hed checked the 
machine internally to see if he could find any trapped notes, and had also run diagnostics on 
the machine to cure any potential faults. But he hadnt been able to locate any notes. He 
said hed taken Mr Ls contact details in case the machine didnt balance when it was next 
serviced.
Both parties were detailed in their recollection of events and evidence provided. As Ive set 
out above, all the machine evidence showed was that after the cashier had opened the 
machine, there were no extra notes in it. So in reaching my decision, I  considered the 
evidence from Mr L and from the cashier. These conflict, and as I wasnt present I cant tell 
for certain what happened. 
So I thought what might be a fair resolution in these individual circumstances. The amount in 
question here is relatively small - £80 - and I couldnt rule out that either side may have 
made a mistake or oversight. But equally, nor did the available evidence clearly show that 
one party was definitely responsible over the other here. So, taking on board both sides of 
this complaint, I thought that the fairest outcome was to split the disputed £80 equally 
between the disputants, with Nationwide paying Mr L £40. I realised that both sides may 
view this as a less than satisfactory outcome. Mr L ultimately wouldnt get what he wanted, 
and Nationwide might feel it had supported its version of events with evidence. But I said I 
hoped Id explained why I currently consider that this is a fair way to resolve this matter.
I went on to consider the customer service which Mr L received from Nationwide. Again, he 
provided detailed evidence about the events, which Ive set out above. I considered that Mr L 
didnt receive good customer service. It was understandable that hed be worried about what 
had happened. Over a week after the incident, on 14 April, he was told to wait another nine 
working days, but he didnt hear within that time. And when he did hear, it was by an email 
early in the afternoon of 4 May telling him he had to reply by mid-day the following day with 
more details. And when Mr L replied with further details, Nationwide sent a short email at 
10:22 on 5 May which didnt answer the points Mr L had made  but asked him to confirm he 
was happy to close the complaint, by 1pm the same day. It didnt reply further to Mr Ls email 
saying he didnt want his complaint to be closed. So I could understand why the service here 
would have caused him some frustration and confusion. This clearly meant a lot to him, and 
Nationwides handling of the situation would only have added to that.
So I found that Nationwide gave Mr L poor service, and I said that I provisionally intended to 
order it to pay Mr L £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused him. 
This would make a total of £140 to be paid to Mr L.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr L accepted the provisional decision. He said that he understood there was no clear 
evidence to prove fault either on his part, or that of Nationwide, and that as such he felt that 
for Nationwide to return half of the disputed amount was a very fair result.
Nationwide replied that it was struggling to understand how Id come to my decision and 
wanted me to provide more justification. It said it wanted to know why the evidence that the 
machine had balanced wasnt satisfactory. It said the implication was that I was accusing its 
staff member of stealing the money. It asked whether that was my position, and if not, what 
other possible turn of events I was suggesting. Nationwide said that it should be clear what I 
thought most likely to have happened to the money.
I replied to Nationwide that I felt the provisional decision was clear and didnt require further 
justification. But to assist Nationwide, I explained that the fact that any machine balances 
can never be an incontrovertible justification for the financial organisations side of events. 
All it proves is that the disputed amount is no longer present. I had set this out in the 
provisional decision. So I said that I had explained why I felt that it would be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances here to refund half of the disputed amount, given the 
difficulty in establishing what happened on balance of the evidence that is available and the 
low amount in dispute here. I said I remained satisfied that this would be a proportionate and 
fair suggestion here, having taken everything into account.
Nationwide then replied again, saying that it would accept the findings and pay Mr L £40 as 
a gesture of goodwill and £100 compensation.
My findings
Having reconsidered all the evidence, and taking into account both sides responses to the 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
  My final decision is that I order Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr L:
- £40, representing half the amount of the disputed transaction; and 
- £100, for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor customer service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman