DRN-2794074
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about how HSBC UK Bank Plc handled their requests to make 
payments from their account.    
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have an account with HSBC. In February 2020 they received two large 
payments into the account. On 20 February Mr R called HSBC to arrange a CHAPS 
payment for around £15 million that was an investment on the money market. On the call he 
was asked questions about the source and destination of the money. And the advisor 
confirmed that payment would be made later that day.
However, this wasnt completed as HSBC said it required further information about the 
source of the money before it could process the transaction. This took some time to 
complete and subsequently Mr R decided to cancel the payment. 
Instead he arranged a number of other smaller payments to different investment accounts in 
the days that followed. Some went through without delay, while during one transaction 
HSBC again asked for further information before processing it.
Mr R was unhappy with how his payments were handled and made a complaint to HSBC. 
HSBC responded to his complaint but didnt agree it had acted unreasonably by requesting 
further information about some of the transactions. It said this was its process in order to 
protect its customers, their accounts and HSBC. However, it agreed it had provided wrong 
information to Mr R when he was attempting to make the payments. And it offered £215 
compensation, and £85 to cover the charges for the transactions. 
Mr R didnt think this was enough. He thought HSBC should pay for the interest he lost out 
on due to the delays with his payments. And cover the cost of instructing his solicitor in order 
to fulfil some of the checks. 
Our investigator initially assessed the complaint and thought HSBCs offer of £300 was fair 
to make up for the inconvenience it had caused by providing incorrect information. However, 
he thought it had fairly applied its processes when asking for further information before 
processing the payments.
After our investigator issued his opinion, HSBC contacted Mr R to say it was increasing its 
offer. It said it would agree to pay the additional amount he had requested of £986.52 to 
cover his losses and costs. And it offered a further £500 compensation.
Our investigator put this offer to Mr R, but he didnt accept and asked for the complaint the 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has raised several different points and provided a large amount of information. As this 
is an informal service, I havent commented on every point he has raised. Instead, Ive 
focussed on those I feel are most relevant. However, I want to reassure Mr R that I have 
considered everything hes provided when reaching my decision. 
There are risks attached to processing payments of large sums of money. And it is usual that 
banks put measures and processes in place in order to try and mitigate these risks. It is for 
the bank to decide what processes it thinks are necessary based on the size and nature of 
the transaction. And this can mean different levels of evidence are required depending on 
the transaction. This is a business decision and not something this service would generally 
interfere with, unless it is shown that HSBC has acted unfairly. So, I dont think HSBC has 
done anything wrong by conducting additional checks on some of Mr Rs payments. 
However, I need to consider whether HSBC has applied its process fairly in Mr and Mrs Rs 
case and in line with how it would treat other customers in the same position. 
Ive considered what happened throughout the time Mr R has described when he received 
and tried to transfer money from his HSBC account. I can see why this has been the cause 
of some frustration and there is no doubt that HSBCs request caused him inconvenience. 
However, when considering a complaint I first need to decide if the business got something 
wrong. And where I find it has, consider what it should do to put things right. Here I dont 
think HSBC has done anything wrong by applying its process for high value transactions. Its 
shown that it is entitled to ask for additional information when processing a CHAPS payment. 
And I dont think its unreasonable that it required further evidence to minimise the risk of the 
transaction.
However, I agree there were things HSBC could have done to lessen the inconvenience 
caused to Mr R. There were several occasions where incorrect information was given to him. 
And on a couple of occasions he was incorrectly informed that the payment would be made 
with no further checks required. This would have added to the distress and inconvenience of 
the further requests that were made.
HSBC initially offered Mr and Mrs R £300 compensation. But it has since increased this to 
an additional £500 plus £986.52, as a goodwill gesture. This is above what I would have 
required HSBC to pay to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused. So, I wont 
ask it to do anything more.
Further the amount offered matches what Mr R requested as resolution of his complaint 
when he brought it to us initially. As he said this would adequately cover his losses. So even 
if I were to conclude HSBC had applied its process unfairly, I wouldnt require it to pay 
anything more than it has offered.
I understand Mr R wants my decision to adjudicate on HSBCs original offer. But my role is 
to consider if it has done enough to put things right based on what it has offered to resolve 
the complaint to date. So, this means considering the most recent settlement offer it has 
made. And in this case, I think it has done enough.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.   
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman