DRN-1934343
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS), trading as Norwich and 
Peterborough Building Society, mis-sold them a monthly premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with YBS in 1989. They were sold the PPI in connection 
with this mortgage at the same time.
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Fs names, the PPI only covered Mr F. It 
would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 24 months if Mr F was of work sick and for 
up to 12 months if Mr F lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs F didnt 
agree with the adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs F will be disappointed by this outcome but I will now go on to explain why Ive reached 
this decision.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr F was eligible under the policy. Based on Mr Fs age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr F would have been 
eligible.
YBS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs F that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs F say they were told they had 
to take PPI in order to get the mortgage despite them having sufficient existing repayment 
provisions through company sick pay schemes and savings.  
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. Ordinarily, as well as carefully 
considering what the parties have told us, I would have looked to the documents from the 
time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened. However, YBS no 
longer have a copy of documents completed at the time of the sale. This is understandable 
given the length of time since the sale and so its not fair for me to hold this against them. 
Equally I wouldnt now expect Mr and Mrs F to recall the specific details of the sale. 
But what this does mean is that I cant conclude that its more likely that the PPI was 
presented as compulsory or that it was added to the account even though Mr and Mrs F say 
they didnt want it. Particularly given my understanding of YBS sales process and the 
sample documentation Ive seen. There is no indication in these documents that PPI is likely 
to have been presented as something which Mr and Mrs F had to have. And I note Mr and 
Mrs F would have needed to complete a separate application form for PPI which would have 
highlighted that it was a separate product.
So based on the information available to me, I cant say its more likely that PPI wasnt 
presented as optional or that Mr and Mrs F didnt choose to take it out. 
YBS say they didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs F as this wasnt their sales process at 
the time. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest otherwise. This means YBS didnt 
have to take steps to check the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs F. So for example, they 
didnt need to take into account any existing repayment provisions Mr and Mrs F may have 
held at the time of the sale. 
But they did have to provide Mr and Mrs F with clear information so that they could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Mr 
and Mrs Fs attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
Its possible YBS didnt give Mr and Mrs F the information as they should have. This in itself 
doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information 
would have put them off taking PPI. I dont think it would have. This is because:
- The PPI would have provided cover in addition to any sick pay Mr F may have been 
entitled to and would have done so for a much longer period of time. It would also 
have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr F may have been entitled to and 
would have continued to do so for up to 12 months. 
- Mr F doesnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions/restrictions in the policy 
which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the 
policy.  
- I havent seen any evidence to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs F.
- Mr and Mrs F could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think YBS mis-sold Mr and Mrs F this 
PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint against Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman