DRN-4108151
Complaint
Mrs L has complained about a credit card Lendable Ltd (trading as Level) provided to her. 
She says the credit card was irresponsibly provided to her as it was unaffordable.
Background
Level provided Mrs L with a credit card with an initial limit of £200 in April 2022. Mrs L wasnt 
provided with any credit limit increases. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs L and Level had told us. And he thought Level 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs L unfairly in relation to providing the credit card. 
So he didnt recommend that Mrs Ls complaint be upheld. 
Mrs L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ls complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mrs Ls 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Level needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is Level 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs L could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Level says it agreed to Mrs Ls application after it obtained information on her income and 
carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mrs L would be able 
to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. On the other hand Mrs L says 
that she was already struggling and shouldnt have been provided with this credit card.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mrs L was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that Level was required to understand whether a credit limit of £200 
could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A credit limit of 
£200 required small monthly payments in order to clear the full amount owed within a 
reasonable period of time. 
Furthermore, Ive seen records of the information Level obtained from Mrs L about her 
income and that was on the credit search carried out. And this information doesnt indicate to 
me that Level ought to have realised that Mrs L didnt have the funds to make the low 
monthly payment that would be required for this credit card. 
I appreciate that Mrs L says that her circumstances were worse than this and she was 
struggling. But Level could only make a decision based on the information it had at the time. 
And as the available information indicates Mrs L could repay what she would owe at the time 
the lending decision was made, I dont think that Level needed to do anything more. 
So overall while I can understand Mrs Ls sentiments, I dont think that Level treated Mrs L 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing Mrs L with her credit card. And Im not upholding 
Mrs Ls complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs L. But I hope shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman