DRN-1943233
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
March 2001. Mr T says Canada Square Operations Limited (then known as Egg) mis-sold 
him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T. Ill explain why Im not upholding his case below.
Based on the information Ive seen I think Mr Ts PPI policy was bought through an internet 
application. Egg shouldve made Mr T aware he had a choice about buying the PPI. Mr T 
says that he didnt know he had the PPI. He says the online process he went through 
wouldnt have been very clear and Egg shouldve done more to highlight the PPI and that it 
was being added.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr T has said whilst reviewing the information Egg has 
provided about how the PPI was sold. Egg has provided screen shots of the web pages Mr T 
wouldve seen when completing his application. The screen shot show that customers were 
given the options Yes and No to select or decline PPI. There isnt any indication on these 
screen shots that Yes had to be selected in order to move forward with the application. 
Ive also seen a copy of the information Mr T entered during his application with Egg, and
that shows the Yes option was selected for PPI. Given that there was also a No option, I 
think its more likely Mr T chose to take it out. Considering how long ago the sale was its 
understandable he no longer remembers it.
So on balance I think Egg made it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it out.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for him 
and met his individual needs. Instead it had to make sure Mr T got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Mr T says the benefits of the policy were not made clear to him. Its possible the information 
Egg gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out 
the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mr T was 
affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it wouldve been useful 
for him if something went wrong. 
Mr T says he wouldve received some employer benefits if he was off work sick or was made 
redundant. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay or redundancy package Mr T 
wouldve received and it wouldve paid for up to 12 months if necessary. This wouldve 
allowed Mr T to use his employer benefits to cover any other expenses and costs he may 
have had to cover. So, I think he wouldve found the additional protection the policy provided 
useful.
Mr T says he had savings and he wouldve been able to comfortably cover the card 
repayments if he was out of work. He says he had limited outgoings as he was a student at 
the time too and stayed with parents out of term time. But the PPI wouldve allowed Mr T to 
keep these savings intact. The PPI provided the security of knowing that his payments 
wouldve been covered for up to 12 months. 
The PPI cost Mr T 59p per £100 of Mr Ts monthly statement balance. There isnt anything to 
show this wasnt affordable to Mr T. And as the policys premiums were paid monthly and 
separately detailed on his statements, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his 
needs. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
Mr T is also unhappy the financial regulators rules relating to commission dont apply to his 
complaint. I can appreciate his frustration with this. However, the rules regarding this are set 
out clearly and they only apply to credit taken out within a very specific time period. So I 
wouldnt expect Egg to refund any commission to Mr T as this wouldnt be a fair application 
of the rules. 
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said but this hasnt changed my mind about not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Canada Square Operations
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman