DRN-4158451
The complaint
Miss H has complained about Scottish Widows Unit Trust Managers Limited. She said it has 
taken it nearly three months to transfer all her funds held with it, to a third party. She said 
because of Scottish Widows mistakes she has made investment losses. 
Miss H has requested Scottish Widows pay her compensation for her investment losses 
along with a payment for the distress and inconvenience that she said it caused.  
What happened
Miss H held funds within a stocks and shares ISA along with shares in open-ended 
investment companies (OEIC) with Scottish Widows. She said she decided to transfer all her 
funds from Scottish Widows to a third party in July 2022. 
Miss H said on 5 July 2022 she met with a third party and asked if it could arrange the 
transfer. She requested all the funds be moved to one of its cash isa accounts. A couple of 
days later she met with it again and a representative told her that they were unable to 
complete the transfer on their system. 
The third party then said it would complete a transfer form instead and on it wrote the value 
of the total funds held by Miss H with Scottish Widows on that day, to be transferred. This 
amount was around £142,695. Miss H said at a much later date on 7 October 2022 she 
found out the transfer of a proportion of those funds hadnt happened and so she made a 
complaint to Scottish Widows. She said she spoke to a representative from Scottish Widows 
who informed her that it had been sent the wrong transfer form by the third party.
Miss H said only part of her funds had been transferred in July 2022, these being from her 
ISA account. She went back to the third party to resolve moving the remaining funds. She 
said on 10 October, the remaining funds were transferred over but by this stage the value of 
her funds had gone down further. She said she had incurred investment losses.
Miss H said Scottish Widows did nothing to chase up the transfer or resolve it when it saw it 
had the wrong form. She said she authorised a transfer in July 2022 of around £142,695 and 
instead almost three months later she received £131,684. She said because of Scottish 
Widows mistakes she made investment losses and it had caused her stress and worry too. 
She made a complaint to Scottish Widows about all this. 
Scottish Widows said in response that it didnt agree that it did not process the transfer 
correctly. It said it received a request for an ISA transfer in July 2022 but only received an 
official request for a transfer of the OEIC funds in October 2022. It said it could have 
contacted Miss H to get an understanding of what it was she wanted to do with the OEIC 
funds. It said it didnt so for that it offered £100 compensation for what it says was for 
providing a service that was lower than its standards. But it said it was not responsible for 
the delay of the transfer of all Miss Hs funds to a third party and the process it followed at 
the time was the correct one.
Miss H was not happy with Scottish Widows response and referred her complaint to our 
service.  
An investigator looked into Miss Hs complaint. She concluded Scottish Widows didnt need 
to do anything further. She said she didnt think it unreasonable to think the third party or 
Miss H could have raised an issue with Scottish Widows had they any concerns about the 
transfer. She said the loss in value of Miss Hs investment was to do with market movement 
and not as a result of an error by Scottish Widows. 
Miss H is not in agreement with the investigators view. So as this is the case her complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not upholding Miss Hs complaint, and these are the reasons why:
Miss H met with a third party on 7 July 2022. The aim of the meeting was for Miss H 
to arrange a transfer of all her funds from Scottish Widows to the third party. She 
wanted to transfer all the funds from her stocks and shares ISA and OEIC 
investments to a cash ISA. 
The representative from the third party couldnt make the transfer happen 
electronically. So, they completed an ISA transfer form manually and sent it to 
Scottish Widows. The amount to be transferred was stipulated by the representative 
on the form as around £142, 695. This figure was the total amount of all the 
investments held by Miss H with Scottish Widows at that time. 
I have been able to see a copy of the transfer form. It is a third-party form and is 
specifically for the transfer of funds from one ISA account to another. When Scottish 
Widows received this form, it would have seen that the total balance of funds that 
the third party were looking to transfer across didnt tally with what Miss H held in 
her ISA account.
On 27 July 2022 Scottish Widows sent an email to the third party to clarify what it 
was that it wanted to do. It said The value stated on the form is £142,694. But we 
hold £38,474. Can you please confirm if you are able to accept this transfer?. The 
third party accepted this; the total amount of funds held by Miss H in her ISA 
account. 
Scottish Widows said it wasnt able to transfer all funds that Miss H held. This is 
because it had received an instruction on a form to transfer Miss Hs ISA. It said it 
required a separate instruction from Miss H about her OEIC investments. It said it 
sent out contract notes and informed both parties that the ISA had been transferred. 
It said, it wasnt then until October 2022 that it received an instruction from Miss H 
about the OEIC investments. 
On balance, I dont think I can fairly say that Scottish Widows is responsible for the 
delay in Miss H being able to transfer all funds from it to a third party. This is 
because Scottish Widows didnt receive an instruction from Miss H about her OEIC 
investments until she contacted it in October 2022. And when it did, it carried out her 
instructions in quick time. It wouldnt have been until either Miss H, or the third party had contacted it in October 2022, that it would have been given a clear instruction 
about what to do with the remaining OEIC funds. 
The form sent in by the third party had all of Miss Hs funds written down, so as far 
as the third party was concerned it was putting in a request to transfer all of Miss Hs 
funds, as was her instruction. But Scottish Widows were not aware of this and had 
received the instruction on an ISA transfer form. So, I can see why Scottish Widows 
would send an email asking for acceptance from the third party to transfer the ISA 
funds only, seen as the instruction it had been given was on an ISA transfer form.
The OEIC holdings are a different type of investment that work differently to an ISA. 
Miss H wouldnt have been able to transfer the funds raised from these investments 
into a different providers cash ISA account, in the same way Miss Hs existing ISA 
funds were transferred. Scottish Widows needed separate instructions for them. 
Miss H said Scottish Widows should have contacted her sooner and arranged for 
the transfer of the remaining funds, when it could see on the form that she wanted to 
transfer all funds from her account. But Im not satisfied, considering the instruction 
was on an ISA transfer form, that it would have been made clear to Scottish Widows 
what Miss H would have wanted to do with her OEIC investments. At least not 
enough, that not contacting Miss H meant that Scottish Widows were responsible for 
the delay here.
Scottish Widows has paid Miss H £100 for distress and inconvenience as it says it 
would have been good service if it had contacted her when it received the erroneous 
transfer form from the third party, to ask her what to do about the OEIC investments. 
I can see that it has already paid this. For the reasons I have already given, I dont 
think it needs to do anymore. 
In conclusion, after considering all that has been submitted by both parties, I dont 
think Scottish Widows is responsible for any delay here with regards to the transfer 
of OEIC funds or what Miss H has described as her investment losses.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss H, and I acknowledge the 
strength of her feelings in the submissions provided. But based on everything I have read 
and the findings I have given, I dont uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman