DRN-3049341
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) restricted his account 
and left him with no access to his funds.   
What happened
Mr M left an abusive relationship in June 2021. He also left the business he shared with his 
partner; however the business and related bank account was in his partners name. When 
Mr M left, he logged onto the business online banking and transferred £10,000 from the 
business account to his personal account. 
APS restricted his personal account after receiving an indemnity from the sending bank. 
When APS asked Mr M about the transfer, he was unable to prove authority for it or proof 
that the funds belonged to him. As a result, they returned what remained of the funds, 
£6,900, to the sending bank. APS eventually issued a closure notice for both Mr Ms 
accounts, meaning he no longer had access to any funds as he didnt have another bank 
account where they could send the remaining funds to. 
Following our services involvement, APS agreed to lift the restriction on Mr Ms accounts for 
30 days to allow him to withdraw the remaining funds. In total, Mr M had no access to any 
funds for 12 days.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. They felt that APS had acted fairly when it 
restricted Mr Ms accounts and that it had done so in line with the terms and conditions of the 
accounts with enough notice. But they felt that APS could have lifted the restrictions on the 
accounts sooner considering Mr Ms difficult personal situation at the time, which APS was 
aware of. As a result, they felt that £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this had caused Mr M was fair in the circumstances.
APS accepted the general outcome but felt £400 compensation was high considering that  
Mr M could have opened a new bank account sooner, meaning he could have transferred 
his funds sooner. As a result, they felt £200 was more reasonable.  
I wrote a provisional decision in which I explained that:
I felt APS acted reasonably when it returned the £6,900 to the sending bank.
APS had reasonable grounds to restrict Mr Ms account under the relevant terms and 
conditions.
APS closed the accounts in line with the terms and conditions and provided 
appropriate notice.
While it could have lifted the restriction on the accounts sooner, this was still at the 
discretion of APS so I felt the £200 compensation it had offered was fair in the 
circumstances.
APS responded accepting my provisional findings and made no further comments for me to 
consider. 
Mr M responded and explained that he still felt APS could have done more to help him, 
considering his vulnerable situation. He felt APS made his life more difficult and that the 
£200 compensation wasnt enough in the circumstances. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about the additional comments that Mr M has made, and while I 
understand his point of view, I dont think hes said anything that materially changes the 
findings set out in my provisional decision. As a result, I see no reason to deviate from the 
findings I made in the provisional decision. Which is that APS acted fairly in returning the 
funds to the sending back and restricting and finally closing Mr Ms accounts. But it could 
have acted sooner to lift the restriction considering Mr Ms circumstances. As this was at 
APS discretion I think the £200 it offered is fair.    
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited should now pay Mr M £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused if it hasnt already paid this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman