DRN-4271720
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclaycard Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) have failed to 
refund money he says he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr C claims to have lost money to a scam orchestrated by Finteractive Ltd (trading as 
FXVC). The firm was regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission 
(CySEC) as well as by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) at the time under the 
Temporary Permission Regime. However, its permission was later withdrawn by the FCA in 
April 2021 due to its business practices.
Between September and November 2020, Mr C made payments to FXVC collectively 
totalling over £109,000 from his Barclays bank account, debit card and Barclaycard credit 
card (the transaction of which form the subject of this complaint). Mr C unfortunately lost the 
money he invested. He has since had around £35,000 refunded by FXVC after pursuing a 
complaint about it with the Financial Ombudsman based in Cyprus. But he is now claiming 
the £20,500 loss sustained from his credit card, as he says Barclaycard should have warned 
him or offered advice when he was making the payments to FXVC.
Barclaycard refused to refund the money Mr C paid to FXVC from his credit card, as it said 
he failed to carry out sufficient due diligence. Our investigator also didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. She thought Barclaycard should have intervened and questioned Mr C about one 
of the larger payments he made but didnt think this would have ultimately stopped him given 
FXVC was regulated at the time. Mr C disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to 
determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2023. I said I was minded not to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
The relevant regulations and industry guidance makes it clear that banks ought to 
protect consumers from the risk of financial harm, including fraud and scams. But the 
obligation to warn customers of the risk of such financial harm will only reasonably 
have been engaged if there were sufficient grounds for suspecting the payee was a 
fraudster; meaning that Barclaycard could have delayed the payments while 
concerns about the payee were discussed with Mr C.
So, I would need to be satisfied that Finteractive Limited (trading as FXVC) was 
operating a scam when the disputed payments were made from September 2020 
onwards in order to expect Barclaycard to have done anything further here. When 
determining this, Ive borne in mind that certain high-risk investment traders (such as 
CFD merchants) may use sales methods, or communication styles that can be seen 
to be unfair. Especially, when considering the financial losses incurred because of a 
disappointing return on an investment thats been promoted. Even so, not all 
complaints to us involving CFD merchants are in fact a scam. While the ways and 
means of these businesses can be viewed as unreasonable or even unethical  that 
doesnt necessarily mean they amount to the high legal threshold or burden of proof 
for fraud.
Ive consulted the official organisations that publish warnings about merchants that 
operate in the UK and abroad, including the Investor Alerts Portal of the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), as well as the FCAs own 
warning list. These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe 
that there were no warnings about FXVC at the time these payments were made. 
The investment firm was also regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange 
Commission (CySEC) at the time and was also authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) under the Temporary Permission Regime.
I appreciate an FCA supervisory notice was later published in April 2021 stating the 
regulator had stopped FXVC from offering CFDs to UK investors due to its business 
practices. But this notice does not state that FXVC was operating a scam, and I note 
that the investment firm has since referred the supervisory notice to the Upper 
Tribunal, which would be a highly unlikely course of action to be taken by a scammer. 
I note than Mr C also had around £35,000 awarded by the Financial Ombudsman of 
Cyprus, who found that FXVC should not have categorised him as a professional 
client. This award has since been paid to Mr C by FXVC in accordance with that 
decision. But illegitimate or illegal firms set up with the intention of scamming 
consumers are highly unlikely to submit themselves to regulatory oversight or comply 
with an Ombudsmans decision to pay compensation.
Even if I were to accept that the FCAs notice could constitute a scam warning, it was 
still published after Mr C had made his payments between September and November 
2020. So, even if Barclaycard had intervened at the time to ask questions about the 
payments, there would have been very little to suggest that the investment firm was 
operating a scam. Mr C said he had carried out his own due diligence and checked 
that FXVC was authorised by the FCA, meaning that any warning from Barclaycard 
to carry out further research on the investment firms legitimacy would have been 
unlikely to yield any results that would have ultimately prevented the payments from 
being made.
Ive taken into consideration the concerns Mr C has raised about the techniques 
FXVC employed and the unethical manner in which it operated. But overall, Im not 
persuaded the investment firm can be said to have been fraudulent or operating a 
scam at the time in question. As a result, Barclaycards duty to intervene wasnt 
triggered. There was the inevitable risk of Mr Cs investments returning a loss, based 
on market performance. Mr C says if Barclaycard had offered any advice, then he 
wouldnt have invested his money. But Barclaycard isnt required to give any such 
advice or protect its consumers from the risk of financial loss from investments or bad 
bargains. Therefore, I dont consider it acted unfairly by failing to intervene in these 
payments.
I can see that Barclaycard also submitted chargeback claims for the three payments 
Mr C made from his credit card, but these were successfully defended by the 
merchant. And given there is no clear basis on which a chargeback would have 
otherwise succeeded, I dont consider it ought to have pursued the chargeback claim 
any further.
Given Mr C made the disputed payments on his credit card, there is also the possibility that he could seek to recover his funds via a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, for breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
merchant. I can see that Barclaycard asked Mr C to provide evidence, such as 
contracts, invoices, and correspondence he had with FXVC so it could consider a 
claim. But unfortunately, it doesnt appear that Mr C had any such evidence to 
provide. And without evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation, there 
wouldnt be any basis on which to proceed with the claim. As a result, I dont think 
Barclaycard has acted unfairly by failing to pursue a section 75 claim for Mr C either.
I understand that Mr C is also unhappy with the way Barclaycard handled his claim. 
He said it didnt tell him that the amount credited to his account as part of the 
chargeback was only temporary, and that it also failed to respond to his letters. I can 
see that Barclaycards communication could have been better, and I appreciate the 
service Mr C received would have been frustrating at times. However, Barclaycard 
has offered £75 compensation in recognition of its poor handling of Mr Cs claim 
which, overall, Im satisfied is fair and in line with the sort of award our service would 
make in these circumstances. So, I dont intend making any further award of 
compensation.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mr C responded disagreeing with 
my provisional findings. In summary, he maintains that Barclaycard failed to carry out 
sufficient due diligence before processing the payments he made to FXVC and says it 
should have questioned him about the payments he was making. Mr C also felt that FXVC 
should be considered as a scam given it had been stopped from offering its services by the 
FCA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to assure Mr C that I have carefully considered the further points he has 
raised. But having done so, Im afraid it does not change the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mr C continues to believe that FXVC was a scam, and I accept that it had its 
authorisation removed from the FCA due to its questionable business practices. But having 
permissions removed by the FCA does not necessarily mean a company was fraudulent or 
operating a scam. As Ive already explained, while I accept that FXVCs business practices 
led to a supervisory notice being issued by the FCA  and that its practices could be viewed 
as unreasonable or even unethical  that doesnt necessarily mean they amount to the high 
legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud. And Im not persuaded there is enough evidence 
to demonstrate that FXVC was acting fraudulently or had intent to deceive Mr C at the time 
he made his payments when it was authorised to operate by the FCA. 
I also understand that Mr C feels strongly that Barclaycard failed to carry out sufficient due 
diligence. It isnt clear what else exactly Mr C considers Barclaycard ought to have done, 
other than question him about the payments he was making. But in any event, in the context 
of these payments, the bank's obligation was to promptly execute its customers payment 
instructions. That was its duty, and given the validity of the instruction was not in doubt, it 
duly and properly fulfilled that duty by carrying out the transaction. As I've already made 
clear in my provisional decision, Barclaycard wasn't required to carry out any 'due diligence' 
in these circumstances or to question Mr C about the nature of the payments as he asserts. 
And it wasnt required to provide advice or to protect him from the risk of financial loss from 
investments or bad bargains.Therefore, while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, Im still not 
persuaded there was any cause for Barclaycard to intervene in these payments, and I wont 
be asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman