DRN-1724978
The complaint
Miss B doesnt think Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited paid her enough 
compensation after it failed to cancel her policy when she asked it to so.
What happened
Miss B took the policy out on 6 November 2019. Three days later she emailed Somerset 
Bridge to cancel it, as she was no longer buying a car. The response to her email said she 
should confirm that she wanted to cancel the policy and it set out the charges for that. As 
Miss B didnt reply, Somerset Bridge didnt cancel the policy. Eventually Miss B was advised 
that she owed £207.84 and debt collectors were appointed in November 2019. Somerset 
Bridge later accepted that it should have cancelled the policy on receipt of Miss Bs 
instruction. The debt was cancelled, and it offered her £50 compensation.
One of our investigators considered Miss Bs complaint and concluded that Somerset Bridge 
should pay Miss B £100 compensation in total. She based that on what had happened and 
on what Miss B had told us about the effect of the situation on her. Somerset Bridge said it 
shouldnt be asked to pay more due to Miss Bs personal circumstances.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Somerset Bridge accepts that the policy should have been cancelled on 9 October 2019. As 
it wasnt, Miss B continued to get requests from it for documents and was threatened with 
cancellation. It told her she owed £207.84 on 12 November 2019. 
Although Miss B advised Somerset Bridge that day that shed asked for cancellation over a 
month earlier, she was sent a further cancellation breakdown and further letters about the 
debt. After being with the credit control team for a while, the debt was referred to debt 
collectors. That was despite Miss B having contacted Somerset Bridge again twice to point 
out that shed asked for the policy to be cancelled after three days as she had no car to 
insure. It was only after Miss B approached this service that a manager dealt with her 
complaint and realised what had happened. That was on 23 December 2019.
Somerset Bridge said it only made one service error, so it thinks £50 is enough to 
compensate for that. But I think the initial error led to over well over two months of frustration 
and upset for Miss B. She couldnt understand why she was being pursued for payments 
when she didnt have a car to insure and had cancelled the policy almost immediately after 
taking it out. She was involved in correspondence and calls with Somerset Bridge that 
shouldnt have been necessary. She faced contact from debt collectors and eventually had 
no option but to complain to us. 
I think what happened would have caused most people distress and inconvenience, as well 
as confusion and frustration. Miss B told us that her personal circumstances at the time were 
such that it was particularly distressing for her to have to deal with poor service from 
Somerset Bridge. And its clear that shed already told Somerset Bridge how upset she was 
in November 2019, as thats reflected in its final response letter. 
Our awards reflect the impact a situation has had on a consumer. For example, a consumer 
who is already in financial difficulty is likely to be more alarmed by being told in error that 
they owe money to an insurer than a consumer who doesnt have financial problems. Im 
persuaded that Miss B was even more affected by the poor service she got than she would 
have been had she been in better circumstances. I think its reasonable to require Somerset 
Bridge to pay Miss B a total of £100 compensation.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Somerset Bridge to pay Miss B a 
further £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience (£100 in total). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman