DRN-4310128
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy with the replacement device provided by Assurant General Insurance 
Limited (Assurant) after she made a claim under her mobile phone insurance.
What happened
Ms L has a packaged bank account which includes mobile phone insurance, underwritten by 
Assurant. 
Following the theft of Ms Ls phone in May 2023, she made a claim to Assurant. The claim 
was accepted, Ms L paid the £100 excess required by the policy, and Assurant said Ms L 
would be provided with a replacement phone.
Ms L was unhappy with the replacement phone as the colour of the device was pink, 
whereas she had a white phone previously. So, Ms L complained to Assurant.
Assurant said the claim had been fulfilled in line with the policy terms, so they didnt do 
anything further.
As Ms L remained unhappy, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said the 
claim had been settled in line with the policy terms, which didnt guarantee the same colour 
device would be provided. She recognised Ms L was initially told she could be put on a wait 
list for a different colour, but this was clarified shortly after as being incorrect.
As the investigator was satisfied the claim had been settled in line with the policy terms, she 
didnt recommend Assurant do anything further.
Ms L remained unhappy and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Ms L, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Ms L says she was told she would receive the same colour phone during the initial claim call. 
She says that if she was told it would be different, she wouldnt have paid the excess.
Ive listened to that call, but Assurant didnt say the colour of the replacement would be 
white. Ms L did ask what would happen if a replacement device wasnt available, and the 
agent said if there wasnt any stock then theyd look for an alternative, but they thought they 
would have stock. They then said there were a few available and the order was placed.
Assurant has confirmed the order was placed for a white phone, but by the time the order 
was being fulfilled, one wasnt available. So, a pink phone was sent instead.
The terms of Ms Ls policy explain:
We will attempt to replace your phone with one of the same colour but we cant 
guarantee to do this or replace any limited or special edition mobile phones.
The policy provides cover for a replacement device. The terms explain this will be a device 
of the same make, model and memory size. So, whilst I can understand Ms Ls 
disappointment, Im satisfied the claim has been settled in line with the policy terms, as the 
same colour isnt guaranteed
In a follow up call, after delivery of the pink phone, Ms L was told she could be put on a wait 
list for a different colour. However, this was clarified shortly after as being incorrect, as the 
wait list would only be used when there arent any replacement devices (make, model and 
memory size) available. But there was a like for like device available in terms of model and 
specification, so a replacement device has been provided in line with the policy terms.
Whilst I do acknowledge Ms Ls preference of phone colour, Im satisfied Assurant has 
settled the claim in line with the policy terms, so Im not going to direct them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman