DRN-3428591
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
surrounding the rejection of a payment made to his Halifax account by a friend.
What happened
A friend of Mr B attempted to make a payment into Mr Bs Halifax account, but the attempt 
was declined by Halifax because of discrepancy between the name on Mr Bs account and 
the name that the payment was made out to. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Halifax looked at Mr Bs complaint. They confirmed that they payment had been made out to 
a name that differed from the name they held for Mr B on the account, and that this was the 
reason that they payment attempt had failed. Halifax also explained that if Mr B wished to 
update his name on his Halifax account  if for instance it were the case that it was the name 
on the account that was incorrect, rather than an error on the behalf of the friend making the 
payment  that Mr B could do so by visiting a branch of Halifax with relevant identity 
documents.
Mr B wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at Mr Bls complaint, but they felt that Halifaxs explanation of why 
the payment attempt had failed was reasonable, and so they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it seems apparent that Mr Bs friend did input an incorrect name when 
attempting to make the payment to Mr Bs account, misspelling the third of Mr Bs four 
names to an extent which meant that the payment attempt was rejected on the basis that it 
wasnt being made to the name of the person whom owned the declared recipient account.
Im aware that Mr B feels that this wasnt the case, and that his friend provided the correct 
name to Halifax and that as such some other reason for the failure of the payment attempt 
must be to blame.
However, Halifax have been able to confirm to my satisfaction that an incorrect name was 
used for the payment attempt. And if it was the case that the correct name was being 
supplied, and that some other factor was causing the payment to not be permitted at that 
time (which given the information provided by Halifax seems unlikely to me), then I feel that 
the issue could have been in all probability resolved by Mr Bs friend attempting the payment 
with the correct information again at a slightly later time.
Im also aware from Mr Bs correspondence with this service that he has concerns that 
Halifax appear to have different iterations of his name and initials across the various 
accounts he holds with them. But if Mr B would like to standardise the names on his Halifax 
accounts, I can only refer him to Halifax and encourage him to follow the appropriate 
processes with them.
Ultimately, I dont feel that Halifax have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in how 
this situation arose or in how theyve subsequently managed it, and it follows from this that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action at this time. 
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr B was waning, but I hope that hell understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman