DRN-3084041
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (previously Scottish Widows) has treated them 
unfairly in relation to their mortgage account. 
Specifically, they say they were not made aware that they could have a new rate of interest 
that would have reduced their monthly payments and helped them when they were in 
financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage in 2007 for around £370,000 on capital and interest 
repayment terms, over 25 years. This was initially on a discounted rate but then reverted to 
the standard variable rate (SVR). 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs M struggled to maintain the monthly mortgage payments and the 
account fell into arrears. They say that they went to court several times to prevent their 
house from being repossessed. By 2015, they say their position had improved slightly and 
they asked Lloyds for help. 
They have questioned why Lloyds didnt offer them a better rate, especially when they said 
they were struggling financially and considering re-mortgaging to other lenders in order to 
reduce their payments to a more affordable level. 
Towards the end of 2019, Mr and Mrs M successfully applied for a better rate on their 
mortgage with Lloyds following a conversation with a mortgage broker who suggested they 
apply directly with their lender. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to Lloyds that it didnt offer a new rate to them earlier. It 
responded to say that it is its policy not to allow customers in arrears to go onto a new 
interest rate product until the arrears are cleared. 
Mr and Mrs M brought the complaint to this service. They specifically asked our investigator 
to consider the period from 2015 until they secured the new rate to decide if Lloyds had 
treated them unfairly. 
Our investigator considered the matter but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I just wanted to say that I can see things havent been easy for Mr and Mrs M over 
the years and Im sorry to learn of the financial struggles they faced. With this in mind, Ive 
thought carefully about whether theres anything more I would expect Lloyds to have fairly 
done to help. 
Mr and Mrs M have asked this service to consider the matter from April 2015 to the point at 
which they secured a new interest rate and so, in what follows, Ive looked carefully at this 
period. 
Were Lloyds required to pro-actively offer Mr and Mrs M a new rate?
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds failed to tell them they could reduce their payments by 
switching to a lower interest rate.
Ive thought carefully about the relevant regulation here. There werent any rules that 
required mortgage lenders to pro-actively contact borrowers when cheaper interest rate 
deals were available for them to apply for. The rules do state that the lender must make 
available clear and comprehensible information about the types of interest rates available to 
borrowers. But having this information available on the lenders website is considered 
enough for the purposes of the rules. 
In 2018, Lloyds signed up to a voluntary agreement whereby it undertook to pro-actively 
communicate to eligible borrowers that they could apply for different rates. Whilst Lloyds 
signed up to this agreement, it was not a regulatory obligation and Im afraid that Mr and 
Mrs M would not have been contacted about the different rates available because, at that 
point, the account was in arrears and so they would not have been eligible at the time. 
With this in mind, Im not persuaded that Lloyds were required to have done more here to 
make Mr and Mrs M aware that different rates were available.
Should a fixed rate have been offered to support Mr and Mrs M with their financial 
difficulties?
Mr and Mrs M say that from 2015 they reached out to Lloyds for help as they were struggling 
financially and asked to reduce the payments on their mortgage. They say that they were 
told that, because of their credit history, they would need to speak to a financial adviser. I 
dont consider that unreasonable. As Ive set out above, Lloyds were not required to offer a 
lower rate and, considering their wider financial circumstances at the time, advice may have 
been beneficial. 
Due to the time thats passed, Lloyds has been unable to provide copies of call recordings, 
but Ive considered the contact notes carefully. Having done so, I havent been able to see a 
time that they specifically asked for a new interest rate. 
Mr and Mrs M say that it was Lloyds duty to help them and they should have advised them 
to take a better rate when they spoke to them about their financial difficulties. They say that 
there was no other way they could have gone to another bank because of the missed 
payments and a county court judgement (CCJ) that had been recorded against them - so 
they felt stuck with Lloyds, paying more interest. 
Whilst I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustrations and the difficult position they found 
themselves in, I dont think Lloyds did anything to stand in their way if they wanted to go to 
another provider. Rather, it was their wider financial circumstances at the time that 
prevented them from being able to do this.  Lloyds has said that its policy doesnt allow a borrower to take a new rate whilst the 
mortgage is in arrears. Ive thought carefully as to whether it was fair to apply that policy 
here, especially as a new rate would likely reduce the monthly amount owed. 
Ive considered the history of the account and can see that whilst Mr and Mrs M were up to 
date at times, for example in October 2015  the account then fell back into arrears. 
Payments were not consistently made. And when they were, they were for less than the 
monthly amount due. This continued until late 2019 when Mr and Mrs M successfully applied 
for a new rate.
Whilst fixing a rate can, at times, be a good measure of forbearance for borrowers by 
reducing the amount owed each month - there are other implications of taking a fixed rate 
deal. Theres a risk the borrower will bring the mortgage to an end early  either through 
having to sell the property, or through repossession, to deal with the arrears.
If Mr and Mrs M needed to exit the mortgage whilst it was on a fixed rate, this could trigger 
an early repayment charge (ERC) which would increase the amount that needed to be paid 
back. And so even if Mr and Mrs M had been offered a new interest rate deal, I dont 
consider it would have been in their best interests overall as based on what Ive seen, it 
would not have been enough in itself to get the mortgage back on track.
I say this as Im not persuaded that a lower rate would have made the mortgage affordable 
overall considering the level of missed or incomplete payments. Ive also kept in mind Mr 
and Mrs Ms wider financial circumstances at the time. I can see that they were pursued for 
unpaid ground rent and services charges to the extent that a CCJ was recorded against 
them.  And the monthly payments, as well as contributions towards the arrears that was set 
out in the suspended possession were not consistently maintained. 
With this in mind, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly when it didnt offer a new rate to Mr and 
Mrs M as this would have tied them into a deal  with a large fee to pay if they needed to exit 
early. And while they havent in fact done so, there was still a significant risk of that at the 
time, which means that it wasnt unreasonable for Lloyds not to offer a new rate.
Summary
Considering everything, I dont think that Lloyds treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly by not offering 
a fixed rate as a concession for their financial difficulties  and the other support offered is in 
line with what I would generally expect a lender to provide in the circumstances to try to get 
the mortgage back on track 
Whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, I dont think I can fairly 
uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman