DRN-2220483
The complaint
Mr M complains that following an accident claim Gefion Insurance A/S has unfairly avoided 
his taxi insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.   
What happened
Mr M took out a taxi insurance policy in April 2019 with Gefion via a broker. Mr M was asked 
to give details of all accidents, thefts or losses during the last 5 years. Mr M disclosed two 
accidents of which Gefion was aware. Its adviser asked Mr M if he had any other claims in 
the last 12 months, to which he answered in the negative, not disclosing an accident in 2018. 
In January 2020 he had a traffic accident and was provided with a courtesy car.  
Mr M said the 2018 accident involved his wife and she was driving a car that wasnt his and 
it was insured under a different policy. He said he wasnt asked to declare any accidents in 
which his wife was involved. He said Gefion hadnt mentioned his wifes accidents when he 
was previously involved in two non-fault accidents.
Gefion said the questions put to Mr M relate to an important underwriting factor for 
determining whether it will accept a risk. It said the claims on Mr Ms policies were beyond 
the limit at which it was prepared to offer cover and had it known the correct information it 
wouldnt have done so. Gefion said Mr Ms misrepresentation had induced it to enter a 
contract of insurance when it wouldnt otherwise have done so. And, as it considered this to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation, it was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy and not deal with his 
claim. Gefion said it wouldnt return Mr Ms previous premium or refund the unused portion of 
his current premium as it had paid the third partys claim. 
Mr M brought his complaint about this to our service. Our investigator spoke to Mr Ms 
previous insurer who said that the previous accident that Mr M hadnt declared to Gefion was 
dealt with by an accident management firm and no costs were incurred by the insurer. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Mr M ought to have told 
Gefion about the accident, but it shouldnt have been treated as a non-fault claim. He said 
the accident didnt fall within Gefions underwriting criteria and so he wasnt a policyholder 
not to be offered cover due to the number of previous claims. He said Mr Ms claim should 
be paid and his car hire costs, as well as £300 compensation for his trouble and upset.
Gefion disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said the 
insurance contract is based on Utmost Good Faith, but Mr M hadnt acted in good faith by 
misrepresenting his claims history. Gefion said Mr M was fully aware of his involvement in 
the accident in 2018 and there was no reason to have disclosed two other accidents but not 
this one. It said the accident was reported to Mr Ms then insurer confirming he intended to 
pursue a claim for the damage to his car. It said this wasnt altered by his use of an accident 
management firm to deal with the claim. Gefion said it is also concerned that Mr M, knowing 
his claim was repudiated, hasnt repaired his car but hired a vehicle at a greater cost. It said 
there was no provision in the policy to recover hire costs and it wouldnt reimburse this cost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
References to Gefion include insurance intermediaries.
The relevant law in this case is The Insurance Act 2015. This places a duty on the insured to 
make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer when taking out an insurance contract (a 
policy). This replaces the previous requirement for utmost good faith. The duty on Mr M 
requires him to disclose either:
everything he knew, or ought to know, that would influence the judgement of an
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms;
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
 
Gefion thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt disclose a previous claim when applying for his policy. Mr M has said he had nothing 
to do with the accident and it wasnt covered by his policy at the time. I think the questions to 
Mr M were clear in their intent about previous claims and it is equally clear that the accident 
was covered by his policy. I dont think it was reasonable for Mr M to assume the question 
was limited to taxi claims and so I think that he ought to have disclosed the accident. 
If the insured fails in their duty to make a fair presentation, the insurer has certain remedies 
provided the misrepresentation is - what The Insurance Act describes as - a qualifying 
breach. For it to be a qualifying breach the insurer has to show it would have offered the 
policy on different terms or not at all if the insured hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
Gefion said its policies are underwritten with strict criteria concerning the number of previous 
claims and so the question is important as to whether or not it will offer a customer cover. 
Gefion has provided its underwriting guidance which states that it will decline the risk where 
theres been the same number of claims as it thought Mr M had made in the previous five 
years. Gefion thinks this means Mr M has made a qualifying misrepresentation which allows 
it to avoid the policy.
Ive looked at the circumstances of the undisclosed claim and the impact of this on Gefion. 
When the accident was reported to Mr Ms previous insurer he was referred to an accident 
management firm. These firms provide an alternative to a policyholder claiming on their own 
insurance policy to remove the disadvantages that may follow in terms of loss of excess and 
no claims discount. Mr Ms claim was resolved by the accident management firm as 
confirmed by his previous insurer and there was no claim against his own policy.
This means Im not satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one. I say this 
because I dont think Mr Ms misrepresentation made a difference to Gefion in that the 
previous accident treated correctly wouldnt have caused Gefions limit on acceptable claims 
to have been exceeded. This means with the claim correctly considered Gefion would still 
have offered Mr M cover under its underwriting guidance.
Therefore, Im not satisfied Gefion was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy in accordance with 
The Insurance Act. And  as The Insurance Act reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Gefion to rely on it to avoid Mr Ms policy doesnt 
produce the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. And, as this means that  in 
effect  his policy existed, Gefion does have to deal with his claim from his accident last 
year.In conclusion, although according to the duty placed on him under The Insurance Act Mr M 
ought to have disclosed the other accident I dont think this amounted to a claim on his 
policy. Consequently, Im satisfied that his misrepresentation was not a qualifying one. This 
means there is no remedy under The Insurance Act, and I think Gefion should settle claim in 
full, subject to the policy limits, and reverse the avoidance.
I also think Gefion should pay Mr Ms vehicle hire charges from when his claim was avoided. 
Mr M said he couldnt afford the repairs and he felt this was Gefions responsibility under his 
policy. I think this was reasonable and clearly Mr M needed a vehicle in order to make a 
living and so the hire option made sense for him.
Mr M has described the stress and difficulties he has faced since his claim was declined. As 
I dont think Gefion has treated him fairly I think this was avoidable. I agree with the 
investigator that Gefion should pay Mr M £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. I require Gefion Insurance 
A/S to do the following:
settle the claim, in accordance with the policy terms and conditions:
subject to evidence of payment, pay Mr M the costs of hiring a vehicle from the date 
his claim was avoided by Gefion  adding interest at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum on this amount:
remove the avoidance from any internal and external insurance database, so Mr M 
doesnt have to disclose it in future:
pay Mr M £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman