DRN-1982182
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P applied for a further advance on their Halifax-branded Bank of Scotland plc 
mortgage and are unhappy with the valuation figure given by the surveyor. Theyre also 
unhappy with the service provided by Halifax after their property had been down-valued.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Halifax doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. Halifax is not accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act or 
omission by the surveyor or the firm they work for. 
Halifax is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Halifax is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and having 
considered everything, Im satisfied it did.
Halifax publishes general information about its lending policy on its intermediary website so 
that information was available to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage broker. That information includes 
details of the maximum loan to value (LTV) allowed for various loan sizes and says that for 
loans over £1,000,000 the maximum LTV is 80%. Its not an unusual policy in the mortgage 
industry for lenders to have a lower maximum LTV for larger loans.
Halifax has admitted its systems failed Mr and Mrs P when it allowed quotes to be generated 
and an application to move forward outside of its lending policy (that is, for a loan in excess 
of £1,000,000 and over 80% LTV). Were not the regulator and its not within my remit to tell 
Halifax what it should do to prevent anything similar happening again, nor can I fine or 
punish Halifax for that system limitation.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when a business makes mistakes, mistakes do 
happen. Halifax has accepted it let Mr and Mrs P down here and has apologised for that.
The valuation was carried out on 2 July and Halifax issued a mortgage offer for the correct 
amount on 19 July. So, there was a period of about two weeks where Halifax was aware of 
the value of the property and could have identified the amount Mr and Mrs P wanted to 
borrow was outside of its lending criteria. This meant Mr and Mrs Ps expectations were 
raised for that period.
Our investigator tried to obtain information from Mr and Mrs P about the time they felt had 
been wasted during the mortgage process, and about what level of compensation they 
wanted. Mr and Mrs P replied to say Halifax should have given you all the dates in their 
detailed response to this complaint- they should have sent you chapter and verse to avoid 
me having to look into It and wasting yet more time. Now its clear FOS are working with 
banks and building societies and this whole complaint with you has been pointless as every 
step has been obstructive.
It seems from this that Mr and Mrs P have misunderstood the nature of our service. Were 
impartial; we dont work with (or for) financial businesses, nor do we act on behalf of 
consumers. We give both sides the chance to put forward all the information and evidence 
they have to support their case then we reach a decision on it.
Mr and Mrs P are the ones that brought this complaint to us so its up to them to provide the 
information to support their case. Its not Halifaxs job to do that for them, nor is it our role to 
go looking for it on behalf of Mr and Mrs P. Mr and Mrs P put forward their side of things, 
Halifax put forward its side and then our investigator reached a view on matters. As 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with his view the investigator was trying to find out if there were 
any factual errors in his assessment and/or what it was in particular that Mr and Mrs P didnt 
agree with.
As Mr and Mrs P didnt want to provide any further information, other than a request for at 
least £1,000 compensation due to the length of time they had to spend (they say in excess 
of 100 hours) on this, Ive had to reach this decision on the information already available on 
file. That information:
Indicates only a two-week period where Halifax could have identified the lower 
maximum loan amount that was available.
Shows Halifax has apologised for the system issue that allowed quotes to be 
produced and an application to be progressed outside of its lending policy in that 
two-week period.
Shows Halifax gave a detailed answer, and made an offer of compensation, in its 
response to the complaint on 27 August. 
Any time Mr and Mrs P spent appealing the valuation figure cant be considered here as the 
surveyor (and therefore the valuation report, figure and appeals) falls outside of our 
jurisdiction and isnt the responsibility of Halifax. Other than that Halifax gave the correct 
figure within about two weeks and gave the right answer to the complaint (and fair 
compensation) well within the time-limit the regulator allows for complaints to be considered.
Mr and Mrs P say £300 isnt enough compensation. As I said, its not our role to fine or 
punish a business and our awards arent punitive. Clearly no amount of compensation can 
change what happened; all I can do is consider the impact of a business actions and look at 
the awards of compensation weve made in other similar cases. Having done so Im satisfied 
that £300 compensation is more than fair.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense I consider Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
made a fair offer. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject 
my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman