DRN-2848322
The complaint
Mr G complains that Astrenska Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim he made under 
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 14 January 2020 Mr G and his partner Miss D booked a skiing holiday abroad. Their 
holiday was due to take place from 8 March to 15 March 2020.
 
On 20 February 2020 Miss D received a letter from the hospital confirming it would admit her 
for an operation for a pre-existing medical condition on 17 March 2020. Mr G and Miss D 
spoke to her consultant in the meantime who said she was fit to go on the holiday.
On 26 February 2020 Mr Gs multi-trip annual travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
Astrenska, renewed. The policy covered him for the period 26 February 2020 to 25 February 
2021. Miss D purchased a separate policy with Astrenska a few days earlier. 
On 6 March 2020 Miss D was told that guidance had changed and she wouldnt be able to 
attend the hospital within 2 weeks of returning from her holiday destination. This meant she 
would miss her operation if she attended the holiday. 
Mr G and Miss D contacted Astrenska who advised that cancelling the holiday on the advice 
of her consultant would be a valid claim under the policy. They were told theyd need 
cancellation invoices to complete their claims, and on the basis of this information cancelled 
their booking and submitted the relevant documents to Astrenska. 
On 28 May 2020 Astrenska advised that it was declining their claims. It said the medical 
advice theyd provided said Miss D was fit to travel and would only miss her operation due to 
the requirement for 2 weeks self-isolation upon return from the holiday. It said its policy only 
offers cover if someone is unfit to travel on the dates of the holiday itself.
Mr G and Miss D complained to Astrenska but it didnt change its position. So they brought 
their complaint to our service. 
As Mr G and Miss D had separate policies, we have looked at their complaints separately. 
To be clear, I am only addressing Mr Gs complaint here. 
Our investigator felt that Astrenska had acted unfairly when it declined Mr Gs claim. The 
investigator said that cancellation due to a travelling companion being subject to quarantine 
is covered by the policy, and felt this was applicable in the circumstances here.
Astrenska didnt agree with this view, so the case has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When reaching my decision, Ive given regard to industry rules set out by the regulator which 
say that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject 
a claim.
I have also set out the most relevant section of the policy below:
 Section 1: Cancellation
YOU ARE COVERED
Up to the amount shown in the policy documentation for your proportion of costs only if 
your travel, accommodation and pre-booked excursions up to £250 are cancelled before 
your departure from your country of residence (including ski hire, ski school and lift passes 
for winter sports trips where the appropriate premium has been paid), which have not been 
used and which you have paid, or are contracted to pay, providing the cancellation is 
necessary and unavoidable due to: 
1. the death or disablement by bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of: 
a. you; or 
b. an immediate relative of yours, or 
c. a travelling companion; or 
d. any person you are intending to travel to or stay with; or 
e. a close business associate of yours;

It also goes on to say under this section that: 
YOU ARE NOT COVERED
.
2.  For claims arising due to a medical condition where a medical practitioner did not 
confirm that cancellation of the trip was necessary prior to the trip being cancelled.
3. If you decide you no longer want to travel
I know Astrenska will likely be very disappointed, but Ive reached the same conclusion as 
our investigator did here. In these very specific and individual circumstances I dont think it 
was reasonable for Astrenska to decline this claim. Ill set out why.
Miss D was both a travelling companion and immediate relative of Mr Gs, as defined 
by the policy. 
Astrenska was providing travel insurance for Miss D - including cover for her pre-
existing medical conditions - under a separate but identical policy to the one held by 
Mr G.
I agree with Astrenksas assertion that it appears Miss D was well enough to travel as she and Mr G had planned. Astrenska says that as the cancellation was due to an 
event that was to take place after the holiday the circumstances arent covered by its 
policy. But I cant see that subsection 1 of the cancellation section of its policy 
specifically says this. 
As set out above, the policy refers to the cancellation being made before your 
departure  which it was here. Mr G cancelled his holiday on 6 March 2020, 2 days 
before he was due to depart on 8 March 2020.
The policy also says that the cancellation must be necessary and unavoidable. Its 
clear to me that it was necessary for Miss D to miss the holiday to enable her 
operation to go ahead as planned. Mr G has provided information to show she was 
advised by medical staff on 6 March 2020 that if she travelled as planned, she would 
not have been able to attend the hospital for her operation due to NHS England 
guidance requiring two weeks self-isolation on return from their holiday destination. 
This has been confirmed by Miss Ds GP and consultant. 
I dont think its unreasonable that Mr G chose to cancel the holiday when it became 
apparent Miss D could no longer attend. I wouldnt expect him to attend a trip they 
had planned to take together, alone.
I also dont think its in dispute that Miss Ds operation was medically necessary. 
Astrenska itself has said it doesnt think Mr G and Miss D would have put her 
operation at risk and gone on her holiday even if they hadnt been led to believe they 
had valid claims when they first contacted it about the situation.    
The policy covers cancellation due to a travelling companion or immediate relative 
being subject of quarantine. The term quarantine isnt defined in the policy. Nor 
does the policy make any reference to who is enforcing the quarantine or why. Like 
our investigator, I think its reasonable to say that a 14-day self-isolation requirement 
is a form of quarantine. The Cambridge Dictionary defines quarantine as 
a specific period of time in which a person or animal that has a disease, or may have 
one, must stay or be kept away from others in order to prevent the spread of 
the disease. And the 14-day self-isolation period Miss D would have been subject to 
here under NHS England guidance was implemented to help prevent the spread of 
Covid-19, which had become prevalent in her holiday destination at that time.
Its true Miss D wasnt subject to quarantine before going on the holiday. But she 
would have been on her return. And that quarantine would have been brought about 
as a direct result of having gone on the holiday. 
I dont think Mr G could reasonably have foreseen that Miss D might be subject to 
this quarantine requirement at the time they booked their holiday in January 2020, or 
when his insurance renewed in February 2020. 
I have noted that there is separate section in the policy titled Anyone upon whom the 
trip may depend which refers to situations where a policyholder may wish to cancel 
or curtail their trip due to a deterioration in the health of an immediate relative or 
travelling companion with a medical condition. I dont think the wording of this section 
of the policy entitles Astrenska to turn down Mr Gs claim. Miss Ds health hadnt 
deteriorated between booking and cancelling the trip (that Im aware of).
Astrenska has stated that it believes the Tour Operator Mr G was due to travel with 
should have provided him with a refund as the destination he was due to travel to 
went into quarantine on 8 March 2020  the date hed been due to travel. On 9 March 
2020 the government of that country then imposed a nationwide lockdown. But Mr G 
had already cancelled his holiday prior to this point, and Ive seen the cancellation 
invoice which confirms the cancellation cost totaled the cost of the booking. So I dont 
think its reasonable for Astrenska to decline his claim on this basis.I appreciate that the Covid-19 pandemic has given rise to unique and unprecedented 
circumstances. But for the reasons Ive explained above I think the specific and 
individual circumstances of Mr Gs claim falls within the scope of cancellation cover 
provided by the policy. And I dont think Astrenskas decision to decline the claim was 
a fair outcome for M G in the circumstances.
Astrenska has paid Mr G £50 compensation after he was led to believe that his claim 
would be covered when he and Miss D first discussed the matter to Astrenska. Our 
investigator also recommended that it pay him a further £50 compensation to reflect 
the level of service he received from it during the course of the claim. Mr Gs told us 
he regularly had to chase Astrenska for updates and did not receive a call back when 
he was promised one. I can see from Astrenskas notes that Mr G contacted it about 
this complaint on numerous occasions. They also refer to the fact Mr G was not 
contacted in the timescales he was advised. I think the investigators recommendation 
is reasonable in the circumstances. Its clear the level of service provided throughout 
the claim process caused Mr G considerable inconvenience.
Putting things right
Astrenska should accept the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy 
and calculate settlement in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It 
should add 8% simple interest to any settlement made, calculated from the date of claim to 
the date of settlement.
Astrenska should also pay Mr G an additional £50 by way of compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the service it provided to him.
If Astrenska considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Astrenska Insurance Limited to put things right as Ive set 
out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2021.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman