DRN-3612002
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK plc lent to her irresponsibly when it increased the 
limit on her credit card account.
What happened
Ms B had a credit card with Barclays. The account was opened in January 2005 with a third-
party and was transferred to Barclays in November 2011. In February 2014 Miss B's credit 
limit was increased to £16,250. 
 Date Limit
Account opening January 2005 £12,250
Account transferred to Barclays November 2011
1st increase February 2014 16,250
1st decrease December 2017 15,300
In January 2018 Barclays sent Ms B a default notice regarding the account after she fell into 
financial difficulty and had trouble making her payments. In May 2021 Ms B complained to 
Barclays. She said she was provided with a credit limit increase she could not afford nor was 
it sustainable given her financial circumstances.
Ms B said prior to her credit limit increase in 2014 she had only made minimum payments on 
the credit card for a long while and was using a very high level of her credit limit. She said if 
Barclays had checked her credit report before increasing the limit it would've seen that she 
had taken out a lot of other credit and was close to the limit. She said this would have 
warned Barclays that she was struggling with her finances and it was irresponsible to lend 
her more. Ms B said in 2017 her take-home pay was £1800 a month. She said her 
mortgage, household bills and transport costs came to about £1600 a month and her food 
and clothes costs were about £150 a month. She said at this point she had over £35,000 of 
debt and her monthly debt repayments were more than £600. She said her minimum 
repayment to Barclays was over £100 a month and as a result she could not afford her 
existing debt and was having to borrow more every month.
In its final response Barclays said it wasn't able to uphold M B's complaint due to the time 
that had elapsed since the credit limit increase was applied to her account. Ms B brought her 
complaint to this service. An ombudsman issued a final decision concluding that M B's 
complaint about the lending was made in time and we would be able to look at the merits of 
the complaint.
Our investigator concluded that Barclays hadn't acted unfairly or irresponsibly when it 
increased Ms B's credit limit as it did. Ms B didn't agree and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. Ms B provided some additional comments which I have responded to below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms B but having done so I wont be asking 
Barclays to do anything further.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Ms Bs complaint.
Before granting credit, Barclays was required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Ms Bs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Ms B could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her 
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter is the 
risk posed to Barclays as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not necessarily the same 
as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on several factors and 
there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered proportionate. 
In her response to our investigator's view Ms B said she has a second similar complaint with 
a different financial provider, concerning unaffordable lending on another credit card. She 
said while she could see in isolation that the credit limit increase with Barclays may seem 
affordable, Barclays raised her credit limit at a similar time as the other provider raised the 
credit limit on her other card to £21,000. She said it was insane to loan so much to one 
person. Ms B went on to say that the payments made above the minimum were balance 
transfers between the cards.
I understand why Ms B would like me to look at her credit limit increase with Barclays as part 
of her total credit card lending. But I must make my decision based on the individual 
circumstances of this particular complaint with Barclays. I can look at Ms Bs wider borrowing 
and financial situation, but in order to be fair and reasonable I can only do so within the 
context of what Barclays knew or ought reasonably to have known when it made its lending 
decision in 2014.
Did Barclays undertake reasonable and proportionate checks?
Barclays told this service that due to the time that has elapsed, it has limited data around 
what was considered before the credit limit increase. It provided a summary result of the 
data considered through checks completed on its behalf by its credit agency partner. It said 
the agency considered the income turnover alongside Ms Bs outgoings to determine her 
affordability and, based on the results received, it knew Ms B wasnt flagged for over 
indebtedness for the limit proposed and she had no delinquencies on her credit file.
Barclays went on to say that each month it also provided a score which looked at the 
likelihood of the account defaulting within the next twelve months. It said credit file data as 
well as how the account is managed feeds into this score. Barclays said at the time of the 
increase the score was 32, with the maximum score being 9999. This meant that Ms Bs 
account had a 0.32% chance of defaulting in the next twelve months. As I mentioned above 
this is the credit risk to Barclays, but it also needed to consider if Ms B could afford the 
repayments. Barclays said there was nothing in the account management to have indicated 
to it that an increase to the credit limit was unaffordable. Ive looked at Ms Bs Barclays credit card statements during the 12 month period leading up 
to the credit increase in February 2014. I can see that Ms B consistently only utilised 
between 38% and 59% of her available credit. In January 2013, and September and January 
2014, she made substantial credits to the account and in most months paid more than 
double the minimum payment necessary. Although I can see two balance transfers into the 
account Ms B never exceeded more than 59% of her available credit. This evidence 
suggests Ms B was managing her account well.  
Barclays said the credit agency considered the income turnover data alongside Ms Bs 
outgoings to determine affordability. Im persuaded that given the increase was substantial, 
£4,000, an income and expenditure check at this point wouldve been proportionate. Theres 
no evidence to suggest it asked Ms B for her income and expenditure information or bank 
statements, though its possible it did. Ms B said that in 2017 and 2018 she was struggling 
financially. And I can see that around this time Ms B started to struggle with payments. Ms B 
also provided a copy of her bank statements for the four months prior to the credit limit 
increase in February 2014. It was at this point that Barclays made the decision to lend so its 
relevant to see what Ms Bs financial situation was at this time.
I can see that during the four months prior to the increase there are regular credits into Ms 
Bs bank account, one that looks like a salary payment and other regular direct transfers into 
the account. It appears that along with credit card payments for two or three cards (two 
possibly with the same third party finance provider) there were two car finance payments 
going out of the account every month along with a mortgage payment. These items appear 
to make up the total amount of Ms Bs borrowing, and the total of the monthly payments 
account for between 38% and 55% of her income total. While I can see that Ms B regularly 
used her over-draft facility, she always brought it back into credit. So at this point, had 
Barclays asked questions about Ms Bs income and expenditure there doesnt appear to be 
anything Ive seen on her statements which would suggest a credit limit increase wasnt 
affordable. 
I've seen a copy of Ms B's credit file. As information is only reported for six years the credit 
file doesn't cover Ms B's full financial history going back as far as 2014. Some items may 
have dropped off. But I can see that the defaults present occurred in 2018 with none dated 
prior to this. I can see that Ms Bs other credit card also defaulted in 2018 with a very high 
balance. And while Im not disputing Ms B when she says she received a significant credit 
limit increase around the same time as the Barclays increase I cant see anything on the 
credit file to suggest that the Barclays increase was unaffordable at that time.
After the credit limit increase from Barclays Ms B continued to manage the account well. In 
the months following she made payments above the minimum required and by August the 
balance was only £406. I can see more recently that Ms B has been in some financial 
difficulty. And while I think that Barclays could have asked more questions about Ms Bs 
income and expenditure prior to the increase, had it done so I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest the lending was unaffordable or that Ms B couldnt sustainably make repayments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman