DRN-3393860
The complaint
Miss W complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd unfairly 
declined a claim on her pet insurance policy due to a pre-existing condition.
What happened
Miss W took out a pet insurance policy underwritten by Casualty in January 2021. Shortly 
afterwards her new puppy developed an upset stomach when she changed its food. Her vet 
suggested some gentle puppy food and probiotic paste to settle the puppys stomach.
The pet was poorly again in March and began to poo blood clots. It continued in April and 
this time blood tests returned positive for giardia. So Miss W submitted a claim to Casualty 
for the investigations and treatments. 
But Casualty has refused to pay Miss Ws claim as it says the puppy may have had giardia 
during the 14-day waiting period of the policy  even though the vet said the first symptoms 
were due to the change of food. So Miss W would like Casualty to settle her claim for the 
cost of the investigations and treatment.
Casualty said the pet insurance policy didnt provide cover for a condition that was pre-
existing or showed signs or symptoms before the policy start or within the first 14 days. The 
pet had presented to the vet within the first 14 days with clinical signs of diarrhoea of several 
days duration. The problem had continued until further investigation had confirmed a 
diagnosis of giardia. 
After considering the full clinical history of Miss Ws pet, Casualty said it confirmed there 
were signs and symptoms of diarrhoea within the waiting period of the policy. And Miss W 
hadnt disclosed the problem when completing her application for the pet insurance policy. If 
she had Casualty said it wouldve added an endorsement excluding cover on all claims with 
respect to the digestive system with effect from the start date of the policy. And the insurer 
felt itd correctly declined cover in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Miss W wasnt satisfied with Casualtys response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. Our investigator carefully considered what Miss W had 
said about the upset tummy in January not being linked to the giardia. And he looked at the 
pets medical history to see if Casualty had acted in line with the terms of the policy.
Our investigator could see the diarrhoea had continued and had led to a diagnosis of giardia. 
And the diarrhoea present in January was a clinical sign or symptom of giardia. 
As the policy didnt cover for any illness that showed clinical signs or symptoms within the 
14-day waiting period he couldnt say Casualty had unfairly declined the claim. And he 
wouldnt be asking it to do to anything more.
Miss W didnt agree with our investigator. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
Miss W said shed followed the vets guidance. And she felt it was clear the earlier diarrhoea 
was separate from the giardia as blood and tests were needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I know Miss W will be disappointed with this outcome, so Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the pet insurance policy say it wont provide cover for pre-
existing conditions or during the waiting period. This is defined as a period of 14 days from 
the policy start date for an illness that occurs or shows clinical signs or symptoms. 
The policy issue letter also confirms that illnesses that occur or show symptoms will not be 
covered for the first 14 days. And thats not unusual. Like most pet insurance policies, cover 
isnt provided for the cost of treating something that existed before the policy started. 
Miss W accepts the diarrhoea in January wasnt covered as it fell on the 14th day of the 
policy. But she says there hadnt been any clear signs of giardia until months later. And she 
feels the vet wouldve tested for it if they felt her pet was suffering from giardia at an earlier 
stage.
But the exclusion clause relied on by Casualty didnt require a diagnosis to have taken place. 
The clause excludes any claim for illness or accidental injury that showed clinical signs or 
symptoms before your policy start date or within the waiting period.
Looking at the medical history I can see the vet noted several days of diarrhoea during a 
consultation at the end of January during the waiting period. The occurrences of diarrhoea 
continued on and off for months. And because the vet had to keep investigating and treating 
the symptoms it led to a diagnosis and treatment for giardia. 
Casualty has confirmed if itd been aware of the diarrhoea conditions discussed with the vet 
it wouldve excluded cover on all conditions with respect to the digestive system from the 
start date of the policy.  
As diarrhoea is a symptom of giardia that meant the clinical signs of the treatment claimed 
for were present during the first 14 days of the policy start. So I cant say Casualty acted 
unfairly by excluding the costs claimed for. Clinical signs or symptoms were present during 
the waiting period and any related costs were therefore excluded under the policy terms.
I realise Miss W will be very disappointed with this outcome. But based on everything Ive 
seen Im satisfied Casualty has shown its likely Miss Ws pet was displaying signs or 
symptoms of giardia before the end of the 14-day exclusion period. 
It follows that I dont think Casualty has acted unfairly in declining Miss Ws claim based on 
the medical information provided. Its acted in line with the terms and conditions of the pet 
insurance policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 Andrew Mason
Ombudsman