DRN-3149917
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly increased the 
cost of his home insurance policy. 
Mr P is represented by his son. Ill reference both Mr P and his son in my decision.
What happened
Mr P holds a home insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds. He took out his policy in July 
2009. Mr Ps policy renewed each year until 2020. In June 2020 Mr P received a renewal 
invitation from Lloyds, which quoted a home insurance premium of £822.57. A few months 
later, Mr Ps son saw the quote and felt it was considerably higher than expected. So he 
looked for other online quotes for similar cover.
Mr Ps son said he found similar online quotes that were much cheaper than Mr Ps Lloyds 
policy. Based on his market research, he felt that similar cover could be obtained for £300. 
Mr Ps son thought Lloyds had taken advantage of his fathers inability to switch insurance 
provider by increasing his premiums to generate more profits. He said that his father is 
elderly and: in poor health and finds it hard to use the telephone due to poor hearing. Whilst 
he can use a computer for basic things, he is not confident enough to use a comparison 
website. So he complained to Lloyds. He asked them to refund part of the premiums his 
father had paid.  
Mr Ps son said Lloyds initially didnt treat his complaint as a complaint. And that when they 
did respond, they didnt cover the specific issues hed raised. He said Lloyds hadnt 
explained exactly what feature of his fathers cover had led to the premium being so high. So 
he complained again.
Lloyds investigated Mr Ps complaint but didnt uphold the premium pricing part of it. They 
issued a final response to the complaint on 7 January 2021. This explained that the 
premiums Mr P had been charged had been correct for the cover provided. But that the 
calculation method used for the premiums was confidential. Therefore they said that couldnt 
provide an exact explanation for the changes. They also said that Mr P had been under no 
obligation to accept the renewal invitations Lloyds had sent him over the years. The final 
response letter upheld Mr Ps sons complaint that his initial complaint hadnt been referred 
to Lloyds customer care team. Lloyds apologised and paid £25 compensation for this.
Mr P was unhappy with this response, so he referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He wasnt persuaded Lloyds had 
taken advantage of Mr Ps loyalty or overcharged him. 
Mr Ps son didnt agree. He said that when he searched for alternative policies online, he 
also checked the premium that Lloyds wouldve charged for his fathers property. He said he 
found that Lloyds were quoting premiums of between £240 and £310. And that they were 
offering a further discount of 40% against these prices for new customers. He said that if 
these had been similar to the actual premiums his father was being charged he wouldve 
accepted that he was just paying a high premium because hed chosen to insure his home 
through Lloyds. He said: I am trying to compare the premium my father has been paying 
(£800+) with the premium being charged to newer customers (c£300) and asking why there 
is such a huge difference.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ps complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make it clear at the outset that I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. Its not my role to tell a business how it should operate. But within my 
role I can look at whether Lloyds have treated Mr P unfairly. 
When considering whether Lloyds have treated Mr P unfairly, I would need to be satisfied 
that they had unfairly increased the cost of his policy over the years they were insuring him. 
Ill therefore comment on what happened from 2009 onwards. 
Its clear that Mr P feels Lloyds overcharged him for the policies hes held. He feels hes 
been disadvantaged by auto renewing his policy each year. I acknowledge that he feels 
Lloyds have taken advantage of his loyalty and inability to change provider. But I dont think 
that happened here. Ill explain why. 
Ive carefully reviewed the information Lloyds have provided about the increases in Mr Ps 
premiums since 2009. Theres evidence to show that Mr P engaged with Lloyds at the 2010 
and 2014 renewals. And that he called to amend the number of bedrooms on cover in late 
2016. But theres no evidence that Mr P engaged with Lloyds on the cost of his policy after 
that. Despite this, Im not persuaded Lloyds took advantage of his lack of engagement. 
The renewal invitation documentation issued in 2020 advised Mr P to check that the cover 
quoted was suitable for his requirements. It also said: You have been with us for a number 
of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop 
around. I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to include this information within 
their renewal invitation. 
Lloyds have demonstrated that the premium increases between 2014 and 2020 were in line 
with their pricing structure and included changes in inflation and Insurance Premium Tax. 
Theyve said that their view of the risk has changed over time. And that this has affected 
what they feel they need to charge to cover the cost of that risk. Lloyds also confirmed that 
theyd calculated the premiums in the same way for any other customer in similar 
circumstances. I acknowledge that Mr Ps son is unhappy that Lloyds havent disclosed 
information about how they calculate their premiums. I appreciate why he wants to see that 
information. But its commercially sensitive. So unfortunately I cant ask Lloyds to share their 
calculations with Mr P or his son. 
Based on the information Lloyds have provided to this service, Im satisfied they calculated 
Mr Ps premiums as they would for any other customer in his circumstances. While I 
acknowledge that Mr Ps son said that he feels this just means that everyone is: being 
treated equally (badly), Ive seen no evidence of that. Im satisfied that Mr P wasnt sold 
more expensive policies than were necessary at renewal. And therefore Im not persuaded 
that Lloyds increased the price of Mr Ps premiums just because he didnt contact them at 
renewal to try to negotiate a lower price.Lloyds have explained that in July 2010, Mr P contacted them about his policy price. This led 
to a discount of £20 being offered and accepted. Theyve also said that in July 2014, Mr P 
contacted them through his branch about the policy price, as he was considering cancelling 
his policy. Lloyds provided a quote without Accidental Damage cover to Buildings which 
considerably reduced the price. And offered Mr P an additional discount. Mr P accepted the 
revised cover and discount and retained his policy. Lloyds also said that Mr P had called 
them in November 2016 to increase the number of bedrooms on cover. This had resulted in 
a small increase to the policy premium. Im satisfied that this shows that Lloyds appropriately 
reviewed the cost of Mr Ps policy at those times. 
Mr Ps son said that after hed seen the 2020 renewal he was easily able to find cheaper 
insurance elsewhere. And that he found what he felt was a similar Lloyds policy for a much 
lower price online. So I can understand why he considers that Lloyds have overcharged his 
father. 
Lloyds said that the policy Mr Ps son had found: offers different cover and features, and 
also benefits from new business incentives. But Mr Ps son said that Lloyds hadnt been 
able to specify what these differences were: that would explain a £500 difference in 
premium. 
I completely understand Mr Ps points. But note that a cheaper insurance policy with another 
insurer doesnt necessarily show that Lloyds unfairly increased their premiums in 2020. The 
insurance market is very competitive. And insurers calculate premiums in different ways. 
Their assessment of risk can vary too. Looking at Mr Ps point about finding a much cheaper 
Lloyds policy online, unfortunately I cant comment on any details as Ive not been able to 
compare the cover the cheaper policy provided. And unfortunately I cant ask Lloyds to 
answer his specific question either as that would require Lloyds to disclose commercially 
sensitive information. 
I acknowledge Mr Ps strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he 
referred it to this service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that Lloyds acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to require them 
to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman