DRN-4399369
The complaint
Mr O complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr O received a message on social media from someone who Ill refer to as the scammer 
who claimed to work for company A. The scammer said he had a potential opportunity for 
Mr O to earn money by investing in cryptocurrency, and Mr O had been looking for a way to 
earn extra, so he responded to the message. 
Mr O told the scammer he wanted to go ahead and was sent a link a trading platform. He 
was also given an invitation code and instructed to set his own password, which hed need to 
make withdrawals. He had to provide ID and was told hed be able to speak with customer 
service if he needed further assistance.
The scammer told Mr O to purchase cryptocurrency and then load it onto an online wallet 
and between 16 March 2023 and 17 April 2023, he made 21 transfers from his Revolut 
account totalling £19,442 to a platform Ill refer to as S. From there the money was 
deposited into a cryptocurrency account before being sent on to a wallet address given to 
him by the scammer. He realised hed been the victim of a scam when the scammer kept 
pressuring him to deposit more money and he was unable to withdraw any funds.
Mr O complained to Revolut with the assistance of a representative who said it had failed to 
carry out basic checks and that the payments were high value, so it should have intervened. 
They said Mr O had opened the account for the purpose of the scam and the rapid 
movement of funds should have been highly concerning.
But Revolut refused to refund any of the money Mr O had lost, the transactions werent 
suspicious, and it had done everything it could to try to recover the funds.
Mr O wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. His representative said Revolut 
did send warning messages, but Mr O had made seven payments on 16 March 2023, so it 
should have intervened sooner and alerted him that A was operating a scam.
The representative said there was unusual activity on the account and Revolut should have 
provided an effective warning about the risks involved with sending high-value payments to a 
payee linked to cryptocurrency. They said it failed to identify the unusual nature of the 
payments and released them without any questions or online banking pop-ups.
They said Revolut should have questioned Mr O around the purpose of the payments, 
whether there was a third party involved, and if so, how he met the third party, whether hed 
checked the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register and whether hed been promised 
unrealistic returns, and with this information it should have realised he was likely falling 
victim to an elaborate investment scam. 
They said Mr O wasnt prompted to give false answers, so it would have been clear the 
investment had the hallmarks of an investment scam and even though he was sending 
money to a legitimate cryptocurrency merchant, it should have still provided a scam warning 
in light of all the information known to banks about the increasing number of scams 
associated with cryptocurrency. They also said Mr O had deposited funds into Revolut 
account before paying S, which should have been an automatic red flag, along with the fact 
he was paying money to a particular cryptocurrency exchange company to which many 
banks were now blocking transactions. 
Revolut said the chargeback process wasnt applicable to bank transfers and that it had 
raised a fraud report with the beneficiary bank, but there no funds were available for 
recovery.
It said a warning was triggered on 16 March 2023 when Mr O tried to make a payment of 
£351, and he was sent a set of dynamic educational story messages to warn him about the 
risks associated with the payment. He was asked about the purpose of the payment but 
decided to proceed with the transaction. It said the transactions werent considered 
suspicious by its fraud systems and as the account had a very short history, there was a lack 
of data to compare the payments with. It also said the funds were transferred to an account 
in Mr Os own name, so it wouldnt be considered liable.
Finally, Revolut said it didnt believe that blocking the payments would have made any 
difference because if it had asked questions about where the money was being sent, Mr O 
might not have mentioned the name of the scam company and he would have likely 
disregarded its recommendations.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Revolut ought 
to have intervened when Mr O made the first payment because it was a low value payment 
to an account in his own name. 
She noted that when Mr O made the payment of £351 on 16 March 2021, Revolut sent him a 
tailored warning and a set of dynamic educational story messages to warn him about the 
risks associated with the payment. He was also asked about the purpose of the payment, 
which he chose not to answer before proceeding with the transaction. She was satisfied this 
was enough considering the payment was low value, there was no account history and S 
isnt a cryptocurrency exchange platform.
She also noted the largest payment was on 11 April 2023 for £3,501 and she thought 
Revolut should have intervened at this point because of the value of the payment. But she 
didnt think it would have made a difference because Mr O gone ahead with payments in the 
face of warnings on 16 March 2023, so she didnt think it wouldve been any different if 
Revolut had intervened again on 11 April 2023.
Finally, our investigator was satisfied Revolut had done all it could to recover the money 
once it became aware of the fraud and that Mr O wasnt entitled to any compensation from 
Revolut. 
Mr O has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman and has explained he 
was trying to earn more to be able to pay debts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr O has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Im satisfied Mr O authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr O is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded Mr O was the victim of a 
scam. But, although he didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the 
disputed payments. Revolut is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a 
customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it 
may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. The payments were transferred to a genuine platform, however, 
Revolut had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr O when he 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Revolut to intervene with a view to protecting Mr O from financial harm due to fraud. 
The first payment for £51 didnt flag on Revoluts fraud systems and Im satisfied thats 
reasonable. The second payment did flag, and Mr O was sent warning messages. Ive 
considered the nature of these warnings and Im satisfied they were appropriate considering 
the value of the payment and the fact S isnt a cryptocurrency exchange platform. 
Mr Os representative has said Revolut ought to have intervened again on 16 March 2023 
because Mr O made six payments to the same payee. But the cumulative spend was only 
£1,955, and I dont think this was cause for concern. So, I dont think it needed to intervene 
again that day.
Our investigator said Revolut should have intervened on 11 April 2023 when Mr O 
transferred £3501 to S, but I dont agree with this because S was an established payee to 
which Mr O had already made sixteen transfers. And there were gaps of up to ten days 
between some of the payments, so I dont think there was a pattern of spending which would 
have indicated he was at risk of fraud. I accept the amount was larger than the previous 
transfers, but the amount was particularly concerning, and S wasnt identifiably related to 
cryptocurrency. So, I dont think Revolut needed to intervene. Further, even if Revolut had intervened, I agree with our investigator that it wouldnt have 
made a difference to the outcome because Mr O was sent warning messages on 16 March 
2023 when he transferred £351 to S, and he still went ahead. He trusted the scammer and 
thought the website was professional and genuine. And he could see his account balance 
increasing throughout the scam, which also reassured him the investment was legitimate. 
So, even if I thought Revolut had intervened, I dont think further warnings would have made 
a difference to Mr Os decision to go ahead with the payment.
Because of this, Im satisfied Revolut took the correct steps prior to the funds being released 
 as well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr O 
has lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman