DRN-3027677
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC recorded a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr I had a credit card account with Tesco. In 2018 Mr I fell into financial difficulty and was 
unable to meet the contractual monthly payments due on the account and the account fell 
into arrears. Mr I discussed his position with Tesco, and a four-month interest free 
repayment plan was agreed to help Mr I recover his financial position. Unfortunately, Mr I 
wasnt able to make the agreed payments due on this agreed plan, and because the account 
was several months in arrears, Tesco followed their arrears process and issued a default on 
the account. Mr I wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Tesco looked at Mr Is complaint, but they felt that theyd tried to assist Mr I when hed 
contacted them but that the continued non-payment towards the account meant that the 
decision to default the account had been undertaken correctly. So, Tesco didnt uphold Mr Is 
complaint.
Mr I wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that the circumstances in this 
instance meant that Tesco hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably when applying the default 
to Mr Is account, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr I remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it might be upsetting for Mr I to have a default recorded on his credit 
file. However, credit providers, such as Tesco, have an obligation to apply defaults to 
accounts if the account falls into appropriate levels of arrears and similarly have an 
obligation to report such defaults to the credit reference agencies.
It would be expected by this service that Tesco, before defaulting Mr Is account, would have 
explored other potential solutions with Mr I to give him the opportunity to recover his financial 
position and to return to being able to meet the contractual requirements of the credit 
account without the need for a default to be recorded.
I think that Tesco did that here. They liaised with Mr I when the account fell into arrears and 
agreed a four-month repayment plan with Mr I. Unfortunately, Mr I wasnt able to make the 
payments agreed on this plan. This meant that Mr Is account fell further into arrears, and 
because of this Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Tesco to follow their arrears 
process which ultimately resulted in the default being applied to Mr Is account.
Furthermore, Tesco have been able to demonstrate that the sequence of letters required by 
their arrears process were sent to Mr I at his correct address, and Im satisfied that these 
letters did provide fair notice to Mr I that his account was in arrears and of the potential 
consequences of continuing non-payment towards the account.
As such, while I sympathise with the difficult financial position that Mr I found himself in that 
led to his being unable to meet the contractual payments due on his credit account, I cant 
say that Tesco have acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr I with how they 
managed the situation surrounding those arrears, including that Tesco ultimately defaulted 
Mr Is account when continued non-payment caused the arrears to reach an appropriate 
level.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr I was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Tesco to take any further action at this 
time. I trust that Mr I will understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman