DRN-2605562
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) gave him 
misleading information.
 
What happened
Mr A was struggling with his Barclaycard debt. In 2015, Barclaycard defaulted his account. In 
July 2016 it was passed to a debt collection agency. In October 2017, the financial 
ombudsman service issued it final decision in respect of Barclaycards decisions to default 
Mr As account and pass it to a debt collection agency.
In November 2018, Barclaycard refunded interest and charges of £360.09 following a review 
by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Mr A complained - he wanted the service to review his original complaint again. And 
Barclaycards letter dated November 2018 was misleading  as it promised further 
compensation  which didnt happen. He also said that Barclaycards final response dated 
18 February 2020 to his further complaint was unprofessional as it didnt include copies of 
the default notice and the ombudsmans letter. He said he should get further compensation.
Barclaycard said that Mr As original complaint regarding the defaulting of his account had 
been dealt with  and therefore couldnt be revisited. The refund of £360.09 had been made 
as a gesture of goodwill  and Mr As account had been looked at and theyd found that it 
had been handled correctly. The refund had been credited to Mr As account with the debt 
collection agency  as they were entitled to do as he still owed them money. They disagreed 
that further compensation should be paid.
Mr A brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said that Mr As complaint about 
the defaults placed on the account had been looked at by the service and its final decision 
was sent to him in October 2017. These issues wouldnt be looked at again. She looked at 
Barclaycards letter of November 2018  Mr A had benefited by the reduction in his debt as a 
result of the refund. She didnt think that any further compensation was justified.
Mr A asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr As new complaint closely and there are three parts to it:
He wants his original complaint regarding the defaults to be looked at again.
He says that Barclaycards final response letter dated 18 February 2020 was 
unprofessional - as it said that it enclosed a copy of the default notice and the 
decision letter from the ombudsman  and it didnt.
He says that Barclaycards letter dated 18 November 2018 was misleading as it 
promised more compensation  and this didnt happen.
Looking at Mr As first complaint  this was dealt with by this services final decision dated 24 
October 2017. It concluded that the default was correctly applied to Mr As account and 
registered on his credit file. I wont, therefore, be looking at this complaint again where our 
service has already given our final word on the matter, even taking into account what Mr A 
has said about this as a part of this current complaint.
Mr As second complaint is about how Barclaycard handled his complaint in its response in 
February 2020. This service is governed by strict rules about what complaints we can, and 
cannot, look at. These are covered in The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook. This 
defines a complaint as being about a financial product or service. So, complaints specifically 
about a businesss complaint handling or processes arent included. Mr As concerns about 
Barclaycards response here are specifically about how they handled a complaint and replied 
to this, so  this aspect of Mr As complaint isnt one we can look at.
Turning to Barclaycards letter dated 18 November 2018.  I can see that this was their final 
response in connection with Mr As complaint where he said that he was due further 
compensation due to stress and inconvenience. It said that Mr A had received a refund of 
interest and charges. This followed an agreement between Barclaycard and the Financial 
Conduct Authority- that all accounts in its collections process between October 2013 and 
July 2017 would be refunded interest and charges. In Mr As case, this was £360.09. Theyd 
found that Mr As account was handled correctly  and so the refund was made as a gesture 
of goodwill. This had been credited to his account with the debt collection agency. This was 
within guidelines set out by the FCA. So, Mr A had benefited as a result of this  as his debt 
has been reduced. I cant see that the letter said that there would be any further 
compensation over and above what it had already paid to Mr A. 
So, and I know that Mr A will be disappointed by this, but my decision is that I wont be 
asking Barclaycard to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman