DRN-3806683
The complaint
Mr T says ReAssure Limited is responsible for failing to inform him that his pension 
contributions would cease when he reached 55 and that his funds would be switched from a 
with-profits to a deposit based fund. He says this means hes lost out on investment growth.
What happened
Mr T opened a with-profits personal pension with Legal and General (L&G) in 1992. The 
retirement age for the plan was set at age 55. He made some lump sum payments, but 
mostly he made regular contributions until January 2017. These ceased when he reached 
his selected retirement age. At this point Mr Ts fund was moved into a special deposit fund.
Its important context that during part of the period in question in this case that the transfer of 
the traditional insurance-based savings, pensions, life and with profits policies of Legal & 
General to ReAssure Limited was taking place. The proposal had been underway for a few 
years before being finalised in the High Court with an effective legal transfer date of 7 
September 2020.
From this point ReAssure took on responsibility for the policies it took on, including paying 
future benefits and servicing customers. Mr Ts pension policy was covered by the 
agreement and thats why ReAssure has been dealing with his complaint. So for simplicity Ill 
only refer to it throughout this decision.
ReAssure has confirmed Mr Ts pension fund of around £57,600 was switched to Old Mutual 
Wealth (OMW) on 9 September 2020. Mr T says that around this time he called ReAssure to 
ask why when he had reached the age of 55 it had stopped taking pension contributions. He 
also asked why his pension had been moved to a cash deposit, inhibiting the growth of his 
fund. He said he didnt believe hed been informed about these changes, nor was there any 
relevant communication up to the point of his switch to OMW.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with ReAssures response and on 1 March 2021 he complained. He 
thought it failed to answer his questions. It responded on 13 March 2021 noting that hed 
taken the benefits from his pension. It said because his plan was now terminated it was 
unable to supply him with any information about it. ReAssure sent Mr T another letter on 27 
April apologising for the delay in responding to his enquiry and offering £100 for the 
inconvenience it had caused. But it didnt add any further substantive information.
Mr T approached this Service on 18 May 2021. He told us:
[ReAssure] have handled my complaint badly, my questions have not been answered and 
I have little faith they know what they are doing. As the policy was only surrendered last year 
surely they have an obligation to still hold my data and answer my questions as to how and 
when they informed me the contributions would stop and the product transferred. As I have 
continued to work my option would have been to continue contributing and keep it where it 
was performing well but I do not think I was given the option to do so and no-one seems to 
be able to provide me with evidence that this happened.
ReAssure said it had looked into Mr Ts concerns and responded appropriately. It said his 
pension plan had been administered in line with terms and conditions. The policy was written 
to age 55 and as the benefits werent taken they were deferred. It said Mr T hadnt queried 
why his payments had ceased in 2017 and that subsequent documentation he received 
noted that he was no longer invested in with-profits.
An Investigator considered Mr Ts case and concluded it should be upheld. He thought 
ReAssure shouldve sent him information in the run up to his pension maturing setting out 
his options.
ReAssure disagreed. It restated its position about the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy. 
It said he shouldve noticed that his premiums had been stopped. It also said all 
correspondence sent had noted his retirement date. With regard to the wake-up letters it 
said it wasnt able to produce a copy of the letter it believes wouldve been sent.
As both parties couldnt agree to the findings and conclusions of the Investigator, Mr Ts 
complaint was been passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in 
October. As neither party provided any new evidence or arguments I see no reason to 
depart from my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
ReAssure for Mr T. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ts complaint. 
In August 2001, the Association of British Insurers (ABI) issued its Statement of Good 
Practice on Pension Maturities. It came into effect in January 2002. The Statement introduced the concept of the wake up letter and the follow up letter  both are reminder 
letters sent to customers ahead of retirement.
ReAssure has argued that Mr T shouldve been aware of the terms and conditions of his 
policy, for example that contributions would end when he reached the age of 55. Presumably 
he received these in 1992 when he took out his pension plan. I dont think its a reasonable 
expectation that he wouldve been well appraised of the detail some 25 years later.
ReAssure has a stronger argument when it refers to the correspondence Mr T received more 
recently. It says this had been clear that his retirement age was 55. I agree that the policy 
information sent to his financial adviser in 2013 and the bonus statement in May 2016 both 
note a retirement date of 10 February 2017. Nevertheless, theres nothing in these 
documents to inform Mr T about the action that needed to be taken at his selected retirement 
age.
Theres a further bonus statement dated May 2017 which notes his retirement date and 
confirms the value of his with-profit holdings as at January 2017. But theres nothing to 
indicate his contributions had ceased or that his pot had been switched away from with- 
profits. Its arguable this statement wouldve actually provided reassurance to him that his 
money was still invested in that fund.
The requirement for firms to send wake-up and follow up letters to customers is clear. These 
matters are provided for in regulations set by the Financial Conduct Authority at COBS 19.4. 
This sets out what firms need to include in their letters. They should provide a customer with 
information about the pension pot theyve built up with the provider and set out the options 
they have in order to help them make decisions about their income in retirement.
I understand the administrative arrangements for Mr Ts pension mayve been complicated 
by the transfer of business between L&G and ReAssure. But such changes will provide for 
proper due diligence and the avoidance of harm to customers. And obviously none of this is 
a matter for Mr T to concern himself about.
ReAssure told this Service in its last submission regarding the wake-up and follow-up letters 
that L&G hadnt said that one wasnt issued. But it hadnt been able to search the archive 
because it hadnt been able to provide insufficient information to do this.
On this basis, ReAssure hasnt done enough to satisfy me that the letters it was required to 
have issued by regulation were sent. And the correspondence it points to with Mr T which it 
has been able to share does not meet the obligations it had in terms of what information he 
shouldve received.
ReAssure said Mr T shouldve become aware that the contributions he had been making 
until January 2017 had stopped. The net contribution being paid out of his bank account was 
£92 per month. Having reviewed statements from the account covering the period in 
question, Id note that it was a joint account with a high volume of similar sized transactions 
each month. The account had a variable healthy balance.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr T shouldve been aware of the changes made to his 
pension when he reached the age of 55. I think ReAssures failing with regard to the issue of 
the letters it was required to send to inform him about his longstanding policy and options 
was the most telling factor in this case.
ReAssure has however provided evidence that a policy schedule sent to Mr T on 17 
December 2019 showed regular pension contributions had been set at £0.00 and his pot 
invested in a special deposit fund. I agree with the Investigators finding that it is at this point it wouldve been reasonable to have expected him to have become aware of the changes to 
his policy and contacted ReAssure to find out what had happened.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ts case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
ReAssure Limited responsible for.
Mr T has told us that as he continued to work past his 55th birthday, his favoured approach 
at the time he shouldve been informed of his options wouldve been to have continued 
making contributions and kept his pension where it was. I understand the Investigator 
confirmed with ReAssure that Mr T did have the option to extend the term of his with-profits 
plan. So, I will work the redress on this basis.
As an aside, if this hadnt been the case then for the purposes of this decision, my 
assumption is that Mr T wouldve switched his pension earlier to a provider like OMW, 
investing in a similar product and portfolio of investments, such as he ended up with in 
September 2020.
Mr T has confirmed he is willing to pay the missed monthly contributions of £92 net as a 
lump sum. These missed contributions started in February 2017 and the last contribution 
would have been December 2019 - 35 contributions. So, as part of the outcome proposed 
here, he will need to evidence to ReAssure Limited that he has paid £3220 into his current 
pension plan.
ReAssure Limited should then calculate what investment growth was lost as a result of the 
switch of his accumulated fund - including the missed premiums between 10 February 2017 
and December 2019 - from the with-profits to the special deposit fund. If theres a loss, then 
its fair to revalue this using the special deposit fund as a benchmark between 20 December 
2019 and 8 September 2020.
Taking the total loss sum calculated, ReAssure Limited should assume this wouldve been 
transferred with the rest of Mr Ts pension fund to OMW on 9 September 2020, where he 
was recommended to take a moderate to adventurous level of risk. ReAssure Limited should 
find the evidenced average return for Mr Ts portfolio between 9 September and the point of 
calculation, and then increase its loss calculation accordingly.
If there is a loss, ReAssure Limited should pay into Mr T's current pension plan, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. Its payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ReAssure Limited isnt able to pay the compensation into Mr T's pension plan, it should 
pay the amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it wouldve 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr T wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr T's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that hes likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if 
hed have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.ReAssure should provide the details of the calculations to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ts I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of ReAssures actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me that this was the case here.
ReAssure Limited caused Mr T inconvenience in getting to the bottom of what happened 
with his pension arrangements. And it failed to meet its regulatory obligations to him. In 
recognition of this it should pay him a further £200 (Mr T has already received £100).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. I require ReAssure 
Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman