DRN-4146151
The complaint
Miss C complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) failed to refund a transaction 
she attempted from a cash machine that was faulty which impacted her credit file.
What happened
Miss C explained that she attempted to use an automated teller machine (ATM) to withdraw 
an amount of cash. She says that the machine didnt dispense any funds and a fault 
message was displayed on the screen.
Miss C checked her online account shortly afterwards and couldnt see that the transaction 
had registered on her online banking app. She went on to explain that she returned to the 
same ATM the same day and saw someone successfully withdraw cash from it. Miss C tried 
the same withdrawal again and the ATM dispensed the cash to her.
Miss C said that at the time, she hadnt sufficient credit on her account to cover both 
withdrawals and because she was satisfied the first one hadnt been successful, she was 
satisfied it had been an error, which was why she tried again.
Sometime later she noticed her account had registered both withdrawals and her account 
was now over the agreed credit limit.
Miss C approached Aqua about the problem, and they temporarily removed the charge from 
her account while they looked into it. Aqua approached the operator of the ATM using a 
Chargeback. This is a system designed to resolve issues with card payments. 
The operator of the ATM replied to Aqua and sent evidence they believed showed that both 
ATM withdrawals were successful. Aqua advised Miss C that they accepted the evidence 
and reapplied the charge to her statement. Miss C was concerned about the outcome and 
that she had various charges added to her account as a result of the problem. She was also 
concerned that her credit file would be worse because of these charges. Aqua removed 
some of the charges as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss C then brought her complaint to our service for an independent review where it was 
looked into by one of our investigators. Both parties were asked for information about the 
problem and Miss C explained what had happened and she didnt accept that the first 
attempt to withdraw funds was successful. 
Aqua provided details about both of the transactions which used Miss Cs credit card and 
personal identification number (PIN) to authorise the transaction. They also provided a 
journal roll from the operator of the ATM that showed both transactions. The details 
included on the journal roll showed what denominations of notes were used in each of the 
withdrawals.
The investigator asked Aqua for additional information concerning the operation of the ATM 
which they hadnt produced. The information asked for included:
Were there any reported issues with the ATM around the time of the transaction in 
question? 
Is there any evidence of a third-party device being fitted to the ATM in question? 
Provide your purge bin report for 15 September 2022 or confirm if any items were 
found in the purge bin. 
Provide viewable evidence of whether the ATM in question balanced at the end of 
the day. 
Aqua argued that rules governing chargeback for ATM disputes required them to provide the 
journal roll and nothing further.
Based on the evidence presented during the investigation, Miss Cs complaint was upheld 
on the basis that Aqua were unable to show that there hadnt been a technical fault with the 
withdrawal which they were required to do under the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) 
2017. It was recommended that Miss C receive a refund of the full amount of the withdrawal, 
remove associated charges and fees. Also to update the credit file to remove adverse 
reports relating to the disputed transaction.
Aqua disagreed and continued to argue that they werent required to gather further evidence 
and the journal roll itself was sufficient to show that the withdrawal was successful.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. As part 
of my investigation, I asked Aqua to go back to the operator of the ATM and seek further 
evidence showing that the ATM was operating properly. Nothing has been received from 
Aqua ( including evidence that they made the request). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Miss C believes an ATM operated by a third party failed to 
work properly when she attempted to withdraw £190. She says the ATM didnt dispense any 
funds and an error message came up on the screen. Miss C was able to retrieve her card 
and tried the same ATM later when she observed it working properly. 
Aquas case is that they believe theyd done enough by obtaining the journal roll when they 
processed a chargeback on behalf of Miss C. The journal roll showed two withdrawals 
attempted by Miss C and on both occasions it also showed that funds had been dispensed.
The Payment Service regulations 2017 S.75 state:
75.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided by 
the payment service provider.
What this means here is that Aqua have an obligation to ensure that there were no problems 
with the systems used to process the payment. The ATM was operated by a third party and 
they provided the journal roll as evidence the funds were dispensed. But, on its own, the journal roll isnt generally sufficient evidence to determine that the ATM 
was working properly at the time. There can be a number of other steps in the withdrawal 
process that can go wrong such as some of the notes were damaged or the funds were 
retained by the ATM. Accordingly, ATMs have the ability to determine what, if anything, was 
wrong. There are other reports available from these machines, such as the purge bin report 
which is usually where damaged notes would be diverted to. 
So, an ATM can have faults related to a withdrawal that the journal roll cant immediately 
identify and thats the reason why the investigator and myself sought additional information 
from Aqua. But, Aqua declined to obtain any further information, believing theyd done 
enough to show the funds were successfully withdrawn.
My considerations here are to determine if it was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
for Aqua to solely rely on the journal roll to deny Miss C a refund. Miss C said she didnt 
obtain her funds but was charged as though she did, causing her to attract additional 
charges and costs (some of which were refunded or removed by Aqua). Its Aquas duty here 
to obtain sufficient evidence to either support that version of events or demonstrate the funds 
were successfully dispensed. Also to show that the ATM at the time was working properly 
and didnt have any other unaccounted for funds contained in it (that may be the withdrawal 
referred to by Miss C).
There remains a question about the performance of the ATM and Miss Cs version of events 
describes a fault with it on the first attempt that Aqua declined to pursue. Having considered 
the evidence, I dont think it was fair or reasonable in this case to rely solely on the journal 
roll as evidence that the withdrawal was successful.
Putting things right
In order to put Miss C back in the position she would have been prior to her complaint, Aqua 
should now refund her the first attempted withdrawal (£190 + £1), remove any outstanding 
charges or costs resulting from the disputed transaction and to remove any related adverse 
information reported to the credit reference agencies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua and 
theyre instructed to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman