DRN-3133236
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.  
What happened
Mrs J bought a puppy in August 2020. On 27 October 2020 she took out pet insurance 
online, insured by Red Sands. It was a time limited policy which covered accidents and 
illnesses up to 365 days from the first clinical signs or symptoms being noticed or until the 
annual condition limit was reached.
On 12 November 2020 Mrs Js puppy had vomited several times throughout the day, had 
abdominal discomfort and was very unwell. The vet did tests and told Mrs J that very sadly 
her puppy had serious kidney disease which was likely to be a congenital condition and 
causing a lot of discomfort. Mrs J agreed it would be kinder for her puppy to be put to sleep.
Mrs J claimed under the policy for the vet costs for kidney disease and the death of a pet 
benefit.  
Red Sands declined the claim. It said the policy excluded pre-existing conditions. Before 
Mrs J took out the policy shed taken her puppy to the vet on 24 October 2020. Red Sands 
said the puppys symptoms seen that day related to the kidney disease diagnosed on 
12 November. Red Sands noted Mrs Js vet said on its claims system that the onset date of 
the condition was the 23 October 2020 and the vet claimed for treatment from the 
24 October 2020, both dates were before the policy started.
Mrs J complained to us. She said she and her vet didnt know her puppy had kidney disease 
when she bought the policy so it wasnt fair for Red Sands to say her puppy had a pre-
existing condition. Her vet had written in support of her claim. She wants Red Sands to pay 
the costs of the vet treatment and also what she paid for her puppy.
Our investigator thought Red Sands fairly declined the claim. Mrs J disagreed and wanted 
an ombudsmans decision.
My first provisional decision
Ive made two provisional decisions in this matter. In my first provisional decision I said I was 
intending to require Red Sands to pay the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. I said:
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined Mrs Js claim, and 
I dont think it did. Im intending to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy excludes:
Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury or illness that relates 
to or results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date.
The policy definition of pre-existing condition includes:
any condition, symptom or sign of a condition occurring or existing in any form and at 
any time prior to the commencement date.
Mrs Js vet notes for 24 October 2020 (before the policy was taken out) say:
OR v+ last 24hrs, seems to be constipated, O noted dark coloured faeces.
Red Sands isnt saying Mrs Js puppy was diagnosed with kidney disease before she bought 
the policy. Its saying the puppys vomiting and constipation he saw the vet for before the 
policy started were clinical signs/symptoms of the disease. As Mrs Js vet put that the first 
clinical signs of the condition began on 23 October 2020 I think Red Sands reasonably 
understood the clinical signs for the disease were first seen before the policy started.
On a strict reading of the policy terms Red Sands could rely on the pre-existing condition 
exclusion to decline Mrs Js claim.
However, I can step outside the strict policy terms in considering whats a fair and 
reasonable outcome. I generally consider its fair for an insurer to rely on the pre-existing 
condition exclusion when a consumer knew or reasonably should have known there was 
something wrong with their pet which could likely lead to some investigation or treatment.
The full vet note from 24 October 2020 says that Mrs Js puppy was still eating well. Bright 
in himself ado comfortablePlan. Feed bland food little and often. if continues to 
vomit/becomes lethargic adv re ex.. today/tomorrow.
Theres no evidence the puppys vomiting and constipation continued as he wasnt seen by 
the vet again until 12 November evening when the vet note says hed vomited three times 
that day and passed no faeces. He was showing other symptoms and was very unwell. 
Theres no mention in the vet notes that the vomiting and constipation had been continuing 
since 24 October 2020 and I think its more likely than not that if he had Mrs J would have 
taken her puppy to the vet earlier than she did.
The letter from Mrs Js vet to Red Sands says:
I do accept that there was vomiting on both occasions but the definitely cant be 
conclusively linked. The first episode was a vomiting puppy. This is a regular 
occurrence in the life of most puppies at some point. One injection and he was back 
on track. The second episode was completely different in the presentation. He was 
taken into hospital and testing was commenced as he was significantly worse on 
presentation
With hindsight the puppys symptoms on 24 October 2020 were a clinical sign of his kidney 
disease. But from the full vet note of 24 October and the vets additional evidence I dont 
think that when Mrs J took out the policy she knew or reasonably should have known that 
there was something wrong with her puppy which could likely lead to some investigation or 
treatment. As her vet says, puppies do vomit and after one injection he was back on track.In these circumstances I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Red Sands to rely on the 
pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim.
Red Sands has said to us that after Mrs J bought the policy it sent her a policy schedule 
which asked if had she ever taken her puppy to the vet for anything other than a routine 
vaccination. Mrs J was told to contact Red Sands if the answer was yes. Red Sands hasnt 
explained why it referred us to that question on the schedule. If Red Sands is suggesting it 
can decline the claim because Mrs J made a misrepresentation by not contacting it, Im 
unlikely to think thats fair. Red Sands didnt ask Mrs J that question when she was applying 
for the policy, only after she bought the policy. So Im likely to think that the potential 
remedies available to Red Sands under the relevant legislation about misrepresentation, 
which is in line with our approach, dont apply.
I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Red Sands to pay the claim subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions, plus interest as Ive detailed below. There are several 
conditions around the death of a pet benefit that Mrs J may also need to meet for the benefit 
to be payable. The vet costs before Mrs J took out the policy wont be covered by the policy, 
which I understand Mrs J accepts.
Responses to my first provisional decision and further developments
Red Sands didnt accept my provisional decision. It said:
it appreciated Mrs J may not have been aware her puppy had kidney disease before 
the policy started but it could rely on another exclusion to decline the claim for vet 
fees:
Any injury or illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an 
accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date
the claim form completed by Mrs Js vet said the first clinical signs of the condition 
began before the policy started. The vet claimed for treatment costs both before and 
after the policy started and it was thought the condition might be congenital all of 
which suggested the puppy had a pre-existing condition and was showing clinical 
signs of the illness before the policy started
the death of pet benefit wasnt payable to Mrs J as the policy had a separate 
exclusion for:
Any death caused by an illness/clinical signs first noticed before the 
commencement date or within the first 5 days of the policy commencement 
date.
I asked our investigator to explain to Mrs J that in my provisional decision Id said Red Sands 
should pay the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions . There are 
several conditions around the death of a pet benefit that Mrs J may also need to meet for the 
benefit to be payable. And Red Sands had decided to flag up straightaway that it would use 
one of the other policy terms to say it shouldnt pay the death benefit. I could say that if she 
didnt agree with Red Sands assessment she could make a separate complaint about the 
assessment. But I thought it fair to tell Mrs J now that I thought Red Sands could reasonably 
rely on the new exclusion it had raised to not pay the death benefit and why. We asked if 
Mrs J had any comments for me to consider before I made my next decision.Mrs J said:
Red Sands hadnt highlighted the new exclusion for the death benefit when she 
spoke to it and it wasnt enough to tell her just to read the policy document
her vet hadnt conclusively linked her puppys symptoms before and after the policy 
started
it was a very upsetting reminder of what happened with her puppy if she had to make 
a new complaint each time Red Sands tried to bring up a new exclusion not to pay 
the claim.
My second provisional decision
Having considered both parties new points  I explained why I was intending to change the 
outcome from that set out in my first provisional decision. I said:
Claim for vet costs
In my first provisional decision I said Red Sands should pay the claim subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. Red Sands response raised another exclusion that it 
says applied to Mrs Js claim for vet fees  an illness that had the same clinical signs as the 
clinical signs her puppy had before the policy started.
In my first provisional decision I explained why I thought Red Sands reasonably understood 
the clinical signs for the disease were first seen before the policy started. So on a strict 
reading of the policy terms Red Sands could rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion and 
the additional exclusion its now raised to decline Mrs Js claim.
But as Ive said, I can step outside the strict policy terms to consider whats a fair and 
reasonable outcome. As with the pre-existing condition exclusion, I generally consider its 
fair for an insurer to rely on the same clinical signs before the policy started exclusion when 
a consumer knew or reasonably should have known there was something wrong with their 
pet which could likely lead to some investigation or treatment.
The same reasons Ive given in my first provisional decision apply as to why I dont think that 
when Mrs J took out the policy she knew or reasonably should have known that there was 
something wrong with her puppy which could likely lead to some investigation or treatment.
In these circumstances I dont think Red Sands can fairly rely on the pre-existing condition 
exclusion or same clinical signs before the policy started exclusion to decline the claim for 
vet costs.
I take Mrs Js point that it will be very upsetting for her to have to make separate complaints 
if Red Sands keep raising different terms to try to decline the claim after Ive made my 
decision. Ive looked at the invoice for the vet costs. The vet costs claimed, about £900, are 
within the policys annual condition limit. The two parts of the invoice I dont think are 
covered by the policy are the vet costs of 24 October 2020 (which was before the policy 
started) and the cost of cremation which is specifically excluded under the policy terms (as is 
usual with pet policies).
Im now intending to say that Red Sands must pay Mrs Js claim for vet fees, less the vet 
costs of 24 October 2020, less the cremation cost. Theres a £99 claim excess payable 
under the policy which Red Sands can deduct. Interest should be added as detailed below.Claim for death benefit
The policy says Red Sands will pay a death benefit if Mrs Js puppy dies during the policy 
year or is put to sleep for humane reasons because of illness that happened or started 
during the policy period.
In my first provisional decision I said Red Sands should to pay the claim subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. Red Sands response raised another exclusion that it 
says applied to Mrs Js claim for death benefit - any death caused by an illness/clinical signs 
first noticed before the policy started.
I think Red Sands could reasonably consider that the death was caused by an illness that 
had clinical signs before the policy started for the reasons given in my first provisional 
decision. So on a strict reading of the policy terms the clinical signs exclusion Red Sands 
raised applies. A benefit under a policy requires the criteria to be met. And as the criteria 
arent met I dont think I can reasonably say Red Sands should pay the claim for death 
benefit.
Mrs J says Red Sands didnt explain the death benefit exclusion to her when she spoke to it, 
but I wouldnt expect Red Sands to do so as its in the policy and its a standard exclusion.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Red Sands said it had no further comments to make. Mrs J accepted my second provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Red Sands had no comments on my second provisional decision and Mrs J accepted it 
I have no reason to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my first and second 
provisional findings Red Sands must pay Mrs Js claim for vet fees as detailed below but 
I dont think I can reasonably say Red Sands should pay the claim for death benefit. So 
I partly uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay Mrs Js claim for vet costs less the vet costs of 24 October 2020, less 
the cremation costs, less the policy excess. If Mrs J has already paid the vet costs then 
Red Sands must add interest as detailed below.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint. 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must pay Mrs Js claim for vet costs less 
the vet costs of 24 October 2020, less the cremation costs, less the policy excess. If Mrs J 
has already paid the vet costs then interest at 8% a year simple should be added from the 
date she paid the vet to the date of settlement of the vet costs.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman