DRN-3521256
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, irresponsibly granted him credit 
that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Halifax approved a credit card application with an £11,000 limit for Mr C in June 2017. The 
credit limit was never increased.
Mr C says they were wrong to provide credit as it wasnt affordable for him.
Halifax disagree. They say that when they approved the credit card application they 
reviewed Mr Cs credit file and didnt see anything that gave them reason to suspect Mr C 
couldnt afford the credit. They noted that Mr C had benefitted from a 0% balance transfer 
promotion and had therefore transferred a little over £10,000 to the account and that hed 
explained his income was £50,000 per year. They said that when Mr C told them he was 
experiencing financial difficulties in 2018 they refunded all interest and charges made on the 
account as an income and expenditure exercise suggested he no longer had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the credit. They said they then passed the remaining debt for 
collection.
Our investigator didnt think the credit had been provided irresponsibly but Mr C didnt agree 
and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think Halifax completed proportionate checks before approving the credit card. They 
reviewed Mr Cs credit file and gathered some information from him about his income and 
circumstances. That information suggested Mr C had sufficient disposable income to afford 
the credit they were offering. There doesnt appear to have been anything on the credit file to 
suggest Mr C was under financial strain and Mr C hasnt provided a copy of his credit file to 
counter that suggestion. So, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably when approving the 
initial credit.
And, even if Im wrong about that, when a business provides lending that we think its clear 
they should have known a consumer couldnt afford to sustainably pay, we would usually tell 
the business to refund interest and charges theyd added to the account. But we would think 
it fair that the consumer repays the spending on the account that theyd had the benefit of. 
As Halifax refunded the interest and charges on the account before passing the remaining 
debt for collection theyve already taken that action. Whilst Mr C suggests that this case is 
similar to others this service has looked at for him and upheld, I dont think thats the case as 
here the interest and charges have already been refunded.
Im not persuaded that Halifax provided credit irresponsibly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman