DRN-3552943
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros (Ocaso) has unfairly 
handled a claim hes made in relation to a loss of rent claim under a household building 
insurance policy which was taken out by the local authority.
Any reference to Mr L or Ocaso includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background is known to both parties, so Ill summarise events.
Mr L is the leaseholder for the property, and the freehold is owned by the local 
authority. The buildings insurance is in both the local authoritys name and Mr Ls 
name as beneficiary of the cover.
In September 2020, a fire occurred and damaged the property. Mr L had been 
renting out the property at this time.
Mr L made a claim under the policy which Ocaso accepted and its loss adjusters (LA) 
reviewed what happened. But Mr L says the claim didnt progress as it shouldve 
done, so he complained to the LA and Ocaso. 
The LA attributed delays to Ocaso and said it had to chase for responses on several 
occasions to obtain approval to progress the claim. And he says Ocaso didnt 
respond to his complaint.
Repair work costs were cash settled and paid in full by Ocaso and are not in dispute. 
Following back and forth between parties, Ocaso agreed to cover loss of rent 
payments for ten months. Mr L requested a further two months as he said the works 
took longer to complete  but Ocaso declined this. 
So, Mr L brought his complaint to this Service. He said he had a loss of earnings 
from rent which meant hed had to cover the mortgage payments himself, and the 
experience had been very stressful.
Our Investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said Ocasos 
decision to stand by the initial estimate was unreasonable and not supported by the 
evidence. And that Ocasos LAs were given the opportunity to provide a response to 
this but chose not to  which was unfair. So, he said Ocaso should pay a further two 
months loss of rent plus 8% simple interest.
The Investigator also said there had been avoidable delays related to claim limits, 
quoting commentary from Ocasos LAs. And he said the delays, confusion, and unfair 
refusal to settle the claim in full had caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
to Mr L. So, he said Ocaso should award £950 in compensation.
Ocaso didnt provide any further response. So, the complaint was passed to me. 
I reached out to Mr L to explain I agreed Ocaso had made mistakes across the claim, but felt 
£500 would be fair compensation. And I gave him an opportunity to respond. He said having 
the property burnt out for a year without being able to use it was very stressful. He reiterated 
that hed wasted a lot of time making calls and emails due to Ocasos mistakes. And he 
explained he had to cover council tax as hed been unable to obtain an exemption, and he 
was still responsible for energy bills across this time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ocasos responses to this Service have been limited. So, Ive been reliant on email 
chains between its agents and what Mr L has told us to understand whats happened 
and its position on this claim.
Ocaso has accepted this claim for loss of rent. What remains in dispute is the period 
of time it should pay this for. From what Ive seen, Ocaso agreed to pay the loss of 
rent for this claim for ten months between September 2020 and June 2021 equating 
to £10,000 (minus an excess).
Ocasos file suggests its loss adjuster believed £10,000 to be the policy limit for loss 
of rent. So, when Mr L asked for the loss of rent to cover a longer period as the works 
were ongoing, this was declined as it appears this decision was related to the limit. 
However, Ocasos own representative said The limit is £42.115,27, I don't 
understand why the adjuster insists on a £10.000,00 limit. This higher sum also 
appears reflective of the policy wording around limits. So, it seems clear to me this 
claim wasnt subject to a £10,000 limit. In turn, I dont think it would be fair for Ocaso 
to rely on a policy limit that hasnt been reached to limit a claim. And Id have 
expected it to consider the additional claim for loss of rent.
On its face, it doesnt appear to me that Ocaso considered this request beyond 
saying the claim was already settled. And while I may typically expect an insurer to 
ask questions or possibly for evidence to establish why a claim has gone on longer, 
here it seems it didnt engage with Mr L or provide any reasons why  and appears to 
have flatly declined the request.
The damage in this case appears extensive. So, I can understand how an initial 
estimate may not always be accurate or that in some instances works may 
reasonably take longer than initially expected. And here, Im not satisfied Ocaso did 
enough to consider this part of the claim. Given its had ample opportunity to 
investigate these points, Im directing it to simply pay the additional two months of 
loss of rent payments.
Ive gone on to consider the handling of the claim. I understand why Mr Ls flat being 
out of use for so long would have been stressful for him. But I have to take into 
account that a claim like this, with extensive fire damage, wouldve brought an 
inevitable degree of stress and inconvenience for Mr L. So, it is only the impact of 
Ocasos mistakes on Mr L that I am making an award for.
Throughout the file Ocaso has provided, its agents have referred to delays on its 
part, mistakes made, and the extent of Mr Ls frustration. I see no reason repeating 
these comments here. From these, its clear to me that Ocaso hasnt handled this 
claim as it shouldve done and there have been significant delays and breakdowns in 
communication that have caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr L  
including regular calls and emails from him to request updates and progress the 
claim. I can see that Ocasos poor communication across the life of the claim would have 
made a difficult situation even worse and caused Mr L distress. But I have to keep in 
mind as a landlord, the impact is more remote than if he lived in the property directly. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ls points about paying for council tax and energy bills. I 
cant see hes raised this point with Ocaso or this Service previously. But his policy 
covers him for loss of rent, and not these types of costs in addition. So, on its face, 
these are uninsured losses. 
If Mr L believes Ocaso should cover any additional financial losses outside of the 
policy terms he should these costs to Ocaso with accompanying evidence for it to 
consider. And Id expect it to consider if any delays on its part have led to avoidable 
increased costs for Mr L which it may be fair and reasonable for it to cover. 
Taking everything into account, Im directing Ocaso to pay Mr L £500 for the distress 
and inconvenience it has caused him.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros y Reaseguros 
must pay Mr L the following:
£2,000, reflective of the two additional months loss of rent hes claimed for  bringing 
the loss of rent claim to 12 months in total if it has not already paid this. 
8% simple interest from the date the previous loss of rent payment was paid to Mr L 
until this is paid to him.
£500 in compensation, reflective of the mistakes and poor handling of this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman