DRN-3780346
The complaint
Mr S complains about purchase interest applied to his credit card by MBNA Limited. Mr S 
also complains about the service provided when he tried to raise a complaint.
 
What happened
In July 2022 Mr S called MBNA after he noticed purchase interest showing on his credit card 
statement. The agent said the purchase interest was correctly applied by MBNA but Mr S 
disagreed and asked to raise a complaint. Mr S has told us the agent was rude and reluctant 
to register a complaint on his behalf. Mr S has told us the agent said his shift was over and 
they needed to leave. Mr S explains he found the agent to be rude. 
The call was transferred to another agent and a complaint was raised. MBNA agreed to pay 
Mr S £80 for the service provided by its agent when he called, but didnt agree it had 
incorrectly charged interest to the credit card. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint but thought MBNA had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr S asked to appeal and explained he thought purchase interest had been incorrectly 
applied and that the service provided when he called was unacceptable. As Mr S asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S complaint falls broadly into two parts, Ill look at each in turn. MBNA forwarded a 
copy of the credit agreement Mr S accepted when he opened the credit card. It gives the 
following information about purchases and the promotional interest rate:
As set out above, the 0% promotional interest rate lasts for 23 months on purchases made 
using the card in the first 60 days. The credit agreement confirms purchases made outside 
of the first 60 days will have an effective interest rate of 21.94%. 
Ive looked at the relevant statements and Im satisfied the purchase interest applied by 
MBNA is correct. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent found anything that shows 
MBNAs incorrectly applied purchase interest to his credit card. 
Mr S also complains about the service provided when he tried to raise a complaint. I agree 
with Mr S that no barriers to raising a complaint should be put in place. And I can understand 
why Mr S felt the original agents attitude was unreasonable and difficult. I dont doubt what 
Mr S has told us about how the situation made him fee and the level of upset caused. 
MBNA paid Mr S £80 to reflect the distress caused by the way his call was handled. Whilst I 
agree the service provided shouldve been better, Mr S was able to raise a complaint about 
the service provided with the second agent. And, I also think its reasonable to note that 
MBNAs first agent was correct when he said the interest applied was in line with the credit 
agreement. In my view, £80 reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S 
and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I havent been 
persuaded to tell MBNA to increase the award or take further action. 
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint because MBNA has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint because MBNA Limited has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman