DRN-1967511
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about loans she took with Morses Club PLC (Morses). She says 
these loans were unaffordable. 
What happened
Morses provided Mrs W with nine home collected credit loans between November 2013 and 
August 2016. The amounts borrowed ranged between £300 and £900 and were due to be 
repaid weekly. The outstanding amounts on loans 8 and 9 have been sold on to a third party. 
Our adjudicator thought Morses shouldnt have provided the loans from loan 5 onwards as 
the pattern of Mrs Ws borrowing indicated she was reliant on this type of loan. So, they 
partially upheld Mrs Ws complaint. 
Morses accepted our adjudicators view and said that after it had applied the redress there 
was still an outstanding balance. But Mrs W disagreed because she wasnt happy with the 
way the redress was being shown that Morses had been calculated for loan 5.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mrs W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint about loans 1 to 4. As Mrs W hasnt queried 
the adjudicators findings on these loans, I wont be making any further findings on them. 
Morses agreed with our adjudicators findings that loans 5 to 9 shouldnt have been lent. 
Looking at what the adjudicator said, I agree with their rationale for why these loans werent 
suitable for Mrs W. 
Mrs W has disagreed with the redress she has been offered. Ive noted her comments about 
loan 5, but I think the phrasing Morses has used has led to a misunderstanding. I can see 
that Morses has used the phrase cancel loan after 14 days to describe loan 5 on its 
calculations  which Mrs W has quite rightly pointed out as not correct as loan 5 ran for three 
months. However, it looks like this phrase is what Morses uses to describe loans cancelled 
outside its cooling off period (which is 14 days) and not that the loan was cancelled after a 
period of 14 days. 
Looking at the calculations Morses has provided, it looks like loan 6 was treated as an 
extension of loan 5 rather than being two loans. I say this because:
when loan 5 was closed by Morses, Mrs W had repaid £259 towards the principal 
amount of £400 borrowed;
loan 6 was opened on the same terms and the £259 was then applied to loan 6s 
balance as if Mrs W made the repayment against the amount borrowed at loan 6. 
The starting balance of loan 6 is shown as £700 (£400 borrowed plus £300 interest) 
and then it was reduced by £259 immediately so the balance Mrs W needed to 
repay on loan 6 was £441 rather than £700. 
Morses calculations then show that loan 5s balance is zero. 
Overall and having carefully thought about everything, Im satisfied that what Morses has 
already agreed to do (in terms of putting things right for loans 5 to 9) is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Ws case.  And I hope my explanation has clarified things for 
Mrs W. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I think what Morses Club PLC has already agreed to do to 
put things right for Mrs W is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint and I 
dont ask it to do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman