DRN-2688721
The complaint
Ms B and Mr R complain Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) 
(C&G) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms B and Mr R took out a mortgage with C&G in 1989 and bought a PPI policy at the same 
time. They say the policy was sold in a meeting and C&G has treated the policy as if it was 
sold in this way. 
The policy, which initially cost Ms B and Mr R £21 a month, wouldve given them an equal 
joint benefit for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment 
claim either of them made.
Ms B and Mr R say the PPI was mandatory and sold as part of the mortgage. And they say 
their circumstances made it unnecessary.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms B and Mr Rs complaint didnt uphold it. Ms B and Mr R 
disagree, saying the PPI wasnt optional, wasnt suitable and its costs werent made clear.
 
So their complaint has come to me to decide.
Ms B and Mr R have a separate complaint about a life assurance policy they took out 
through Lloyds at the same time as they took out the PPI. This is being dealt with separately 
by our service. I havent looked at it in this decision about Ms B and Mr Rs PPI policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms B and Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms B and Mr Rs complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointment to them but I hope the reasons Im about to give help them to understand 
why Ive reached this decision.
Before giving my reasons, Id like to reassure Ms B Ive looked at all the information shes 
sent us throughout her complaint. Ms B has said she has more documents she could send 
but Im satisfied I have what I need to decide this complaint.
C&G needed to make it clear to Ms B and Mr R they had a choice about PPI and get their 
agreement to it. C&G says its more likely than not that the optional nature of the policy was
verbally explained to them. Ms B and Mr R say the PPI policy was not optional but sold as a 
requirement of the mortgage. They say that, as participants in the sale, they are in a better 
position to say what happened than others some 30 years later.
There is some paperwork from the time that gives an indication of how the PPI was sold. 
This includes the following documents:
Ms B and Mr Rs signed mortgage application from September 1989. This includes a 
section about PPI. It says: 
C&G Payment Protection is an inexpensive scheme which will pay all your mortgage 
related payments if you are unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. You will automatically receive a quotation and details of this valuable 
protection which we recommend to all new applicants.
A Mortgage proposal assessment from November 1989, completed by a C&G 
adviser. This says (among other things) the adviser recommended PPI on the 
mortgage. Theres also a note saying the initial £80,000 mortgage is to be reduced to 
£60,000 (which I believe happened around September 1990).
An Illustration of initial mortgage costs for an £80,000 mortgage which (among 
other costs) shows a cost of £28 for the PPI. Ive also seen another illustration for 
another mortgage that also shows a PPI cost.
Ms B and Mr Rs Mortgage loan agreement from November 1989.
Two Payment protection schedules of benefits showing Ms B and Mr R each took 
£30,000 worth of PPI cover with effect from December 1989.
From Ms B and Mr Rs mortgage application itself, I think its reasonably clear the PPI isnt 
mandatory. The form says Ms B and Mr R will get an illustration automatically  and I think 
thats the third document Ive just referred to. But theres nothing saying Ms B and Mr R must 
take PPI to get the mortgage. 
The application form says C&G recommends the PPI to all new applicants. But I dont think 
this generic statement can reasonably be taken to mean the PPI is mandatory. 
The illustration of mortgage costs Ive referred to includes a cost for PPI. But I think the 
illustration is just that  an illustration. And it seems Ms B and Mr R got more than one 
illustration. I dont think these could reasonably be taken to mean the PPI is mandatory.
Theres also nothing in Ms B and Mr Rs mortgage loan agreement itself saying the PPI is 
mandatory and a condition of the mortgage.
Ive also thought about the amount of Ms B and Mr Rs mortgage loan that was covered by 
PPI. It was £30,000 each. Ms B and Mr Rs initial mortgage was for £80,000 but it seems 
from the advisers notes  and from what Ms B has told us  that it was expected to (and did) 
reduce to £60,000. The fact that Ms B and Mr R took out a lower amount of cover than their 
initial mortgage amount suggests to me, firstly, the cover wasnt mandatory (otherwise, it 
wouldve been for the full £80,000). Secondly, it suggests there was some discussion 
between Ms B and Mr R and C&G about what cover they wanted  and the cover they 
bought (for the reduced amount) reflected that.
I dont doubt Ms B and Mr R have given their honest recollections of what happened at the 
time. But these events are from 30 years ago. Its possible, as Ms B and Mr R say, that C&G 
told them the PPI was mandatory. But their recollections alone, without anything else to back 
up what they say, arent persuasive enough for me to think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold their complaint on this basis. I say this especially given the information available from 
the time of the sale that Ive referred to already.
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Ms B and Mr Rs 
complaint but I dont think there are. From what Ive seen, I think C&G recommended the 
PPI to Ms B and Mr R. So it needed to make sure it was right for them. I dont know what 
steps C&G took to do this. But from the policy details Ive seen, and from what                   
Ms B and Mr R say of their circumstances at the time, I think it was right for them. I say this 
because, based on these things:
Ms B and Mr R were eligible for the PPI. And they dont appear to have been affected 
by any of the limitations or exclusions in the policy that mightve made it difficult for 
them to claim successfully. So there was nothing to stop them claiming the full policy 
benefit if theyd needed to.
I think the PPI couldve been useful to Ms B and Mr R if things got difficult for them. I 
say this especially bearing in mind a mortgage is a significant and long-term financial 
commitment. And its secured on your home, which is at risk if you fall behind on your 
mortgage repayments.
Ms B and Mr R say they didnt need the PPI. They say they were both in full-time 
employment and had cover for death, redundancy, sickness and unemployment 
through their employers and through membership of their trade union and a pension 
scheme. They say they had another property, whose value had doubled since they 
bought it a few years earlier, as well as savings of around £20,000. They say they 
had another life assurance policy. Ms B has given us documents showing these 
things.
But I dont think any of this meant the PPI wasnt suitable for them. Much of the other 
cover Ms B and Mr R had protected them by giving a lump sum in the event of death 
or permanent disablement. These benefits work very differently from PPI. And I dont 
think Ms B or Mr R were drawing on their pensions.
Ms B and Mr R say they wouldve got six months full pay and then six months half 
pay if they couldnt work due to accident or sickness. But the PPI couldve paid a 
benefit for up to 12 months  which is longer than their full sick pay lasted and 
wouldve been paid out in addition to it. It would also have paid out in the same way if 
theyd lost their jobs. And this wouldve meant they could use their savings and any 
redundancy payment they got for other necessary living expenses, rather than 
keeping up with their mortgage repayments.
And while I understand that Ms B and Mr R had another valuable asset in their 
second property, to have to sell it to pay a mortgage would be a drastic step that 
having PPI couldve protected them from.
Although I note Ms B has referred to the very high interest rates in 1989, I havent 
seen anything to make me think Ms B and Mr R couldnt afford the cover.
As well as taking reasonable steps to make sure the PPI was suitable for Ms B and Mr R, 
C&G also had to give them information about the policy that was clear, fair and not 
misleading.
This includes information about the cost and benefits of the policy. I dont know what was 
discussed at the time of the sale. And Ms B says the costs werent made clear and were 
hidden within their mortgage repayments. But C&G has given us two schedules with a start date of 6 December 1989 showing the 
initial cost of the PPI was £10.50 a month for each of Ms B and Mr R (with the first premium 
being collected a month later). The mortgage illustrations Ms B and Mr R were given also 
show a separate monthly cost for the PPI (both of which were higher than the cost Ms B and 
Mr R ended up paying). So while its possible C&G shouldve given Ms B and Mr R clearer 
information about the policy costs before they went ahead with it, I think they wouldve been 
aware broadly of what they would be paying for it before the first premiums were taken. 
Its also possible C&G didnt make some of the policy limitations and exclusions clear to    
Ms B and Mr R. But since they werent affected by them, I dont think clearer information 
wouldve changed Ms B and Mr Rs decision and stopped them going ahead with it.
From all of this it follows that I dont think Ms B and Mr R have lost out because of anything 
C&G did wrong and so theres nothing it needs to do to put things right for them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms B and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman