DRN-3280168
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that NewDay Ltd approved her for a credit account which she feels was
unaffordable for her at that time. Miss S is also unhappy with the service she received from
NewDay surrounding her exceeding the credit limit on her account by a small amount.
What happened
Miss S applied for a credit account with NewDay in January 2018. Her application was
approved, and NewDay issued Miss S with a credit card with a £300 credit limit.
In January 2019, Miss S went over her credit limit by a small amount. This led to a large
amount of fees and charges being applied to her account over the next several months by
NewDay. Miss S wasnt happy about this, or with the service that she received from NewDay
following surrounding this matter, and so she raised a complaint.
NewDay looked at Miss Ss complaint. They noted that theyd undertaken checks into the
financial position of Miss S before theyd approved her account application, and they felt that
thered been nothing resulting from these checks that had indicated that Miss S might not be
able to afford the credit account with a credit limit of £300 that was issued to her at that time.
NewDay also felt that the fees and charges that Miss S had incurred on the account had
been applied correctly, although they did agree to reimburse three late payment fees back to
Miss Ss account as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with NewDays response, so she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that it had been
reasonable for NewDay to have approved Miss Ss account application following the checks
that theyd undertaken at that time, and they also felt that NewDay hadnt applied the fees
and charges about which Miss S was unhappy to her account unfairly. So, they didnt uphold
Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 January 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that 
any credit being offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
NewDay appear to have done that here. I say this because when Miss S applied for 
the account, NewDay asked her about her employment status and monthly income, 
and Miss S informed NewDay that she was employed with an annual income of 
£16,800. As such, I feel that it was reasonable for NewDay to have concluded that 
Miss S would, in all likelihood, have been able to afford the monthly payments that 
may have become due on a credit account with the relatively low credit limit of £300.
Additionally, at the point of Miss Ss account application, NewDay also obtained 
information about Miss S from a credit reference agency, in order to gain a better 
understanding of Miss Ss wider financial position.
Im aware that Miss S feels that the status of her credit file at that time, which 
included several prior account defaults that would have been visible to NewDay when 
they assessed the information, means that NewDay should have concluded that Miss 
S was in financial difficulty such that the credit account shouldnt have been provided 
to her.
I can appreciate Miss Ss position here, to a degree, but it must be noted that the 
most recent of the defaults present on Miss Ss credit file was approximately two 
years prior to the application. Furthermore, its evident that there werent any recent 
payday loans or other indicators of potential financial difficulty on Miss Ss credit file 
in the time leading up the account application, and so Im satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for NewDay to have concluded that Miss S would most likely be able to 
afford the credit account that they subsequently approved her for. And it follows from 
this that I wont be provisionally upholding this aspect of Miss Ss complaint.
In December 2018, Miss S received a statement from NewDay which stated that the
minimum payment due to be paid on her account that month was £11.61, which 
would be taken by direct debit on or around 7 January 2019. This minimum payment 
amount took into account monthly interest that was estimated by NewDay to be 
approximately £9.00.
On 7 January, Miss S made a manual payment of £11.61 to her account. However, 
when she received her next account statement, it stated that the amount of interest 
that had been applied to her account for that month was £13.35. This meant that 
despite Miss S making the minimum payment required of her as per the previous 
statement, her account balance was £1.88 over the £300 credit limit, which then 
attracted an overlimit fee of £12.00 taking the account even further into arrears.
NewDay have explained that the reason that the amount of interest charged for that
statement period increased to £13.35 was because Miss S contacted them on 11 
January and changed the statement date on her account from the 7th of the each 
month to the 18th. This meant that when the January statement was produced by 
NewDay, it covered a period of 42 days rather than 31 days  from 7 December 2018 
to 18 January 2019. And, given that NewDay calculate interest on a daily basis, this 
meant that the interest charged on the account for that statement period was for 42 
days, and therefore had risen by approximately £4.50, resulting in Miss S exceeding 
the credit limit on her account by £1.88.
Crucially, it doesnt appear that when Miss S contacted NewDay on 11 January to 
change the statement date on her account that she was informed by NewDay that 
one consequence of changing the statement date would be that a higher amount of 
daily interest would accrue on her account for that statement period.I feel that this is important, especially given that Miss S had already made the 
minimum payment required on her account as per her previous account statement a 
few days prior, and because it was this additional amount of charged daily interest 
that caused Miss S to exceed the credit limit on her account and to incur the resultant 
charges.
I also feel, given that Miss S had made several manual minimum payments in the 
months prior to this event, that its more likely than not that had Miss S been informed 
that a further payment would be required in order to prevent the higher daily interest 
amount taking her account over the agreed credit limit, that Miss S would have made 
that further payment.
As such, it doesnt feel fair to me that Miss S has incurred the fees, charges, and 
adverse credit reporting on her account for going over the credit limit on her account 
in January 2019 that she has. I also feel that Miss S exceeding the credit limit on her 
account at that time can be considered as a tipping point for the later arrears issues 
that Miss S has experienced, and I say this because its evident that Miss S wasnt 
able to recover the position of her account following that point.
All of which means that my provisional decision here will be that Im upholding aspect 
of Miss Ss complaint and that NewDay must recall Miss Ss account from the third 
party with whom it now resides and reimburse to the account all fees and charges 
incurred on the account from January 2019 onwards. NewDay must also remove all 
adverse reporting from Miss Ss credit file relating to this account from that same 
date onwards.
NewDay must also contact Miss S and discuss her present financial position with her 
to assess whether Miss S can afford to resume the contractual payments that would 
become due on her account, and provide appropriate forbearance if this is not the 
case, including that Miss Ss account may be restricted such that it cannot go further 
into arrears.
Finally, NewDay must make a payment to Miss S of £100 to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter may have caused. If a balance remains 
outstanding for repayment on Miss Ss NewDay account, NewDay may elect to apply 
this £100 payment to reduce the balance outstanding on the account if they so 
choose.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Miss S and NewDay the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information that they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. Miss S confirmed that she was happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas NewDay explained that they disagreed with my provisional decision and provided 
an explanation as to why.
NewDay asked me to consider the fact that all account statements sent to Miss S included 
an explanation of how interest on her account was calculated, which included the following:
Estimated interest is an indication of how much interest will be charged next month, 
assuming the balance doesnt increase, you pay the contractual minimum amount on 
the due date, the way we calculate interest stays the same, interest rates applied to 
your account dont change and your statement date doesnt change. If any of these 
assumptions are incorrect, the actual interest charged next month will be different 
from the estimate.NewDay thus contend that, because the above statement includes an explanation that the 
amount of actual interest charged may be different from the estimated interest declared on 
the statement if the date of statement is changed  which is precisely what happened in this 
instance  that Miss S was informed that the interest calculated for the month when the 
change of statement date was applied may be different to the amount of estimated interest 
declared on the previous statement and that Miss S should therefore have taken this into 
account.
I can appreciate NewDays position here, but I feel that its reasonable to expect NewDay to 
have confirmed to Miss S when she changed the statement date on her account - regardless 
of whether the relevant information has been provided previously on the account statements 
or not - that her changing the statement date would result in further interest being applied to 
her account for that statement period. And I dont feel that its fair for NewDay to expect     
Miss S to have reviewed the interest calculation information included on her statements 
when the opportunity for NewDay to verbally confirm the relevant information with Miss S 
during the telephone call when Miss S changed the statement date wasnt taken by NewDay.
This is especially the case given that Miss S had already made the payment to her account 
for that month in line with the estimated interest noted on the previous account statement 
and also given how close the balance of Miss Ss account was following that payment to the 
credit limit on her account, which meant that any further applied interest would most likely 
take the balance of the account over the agreed credit limit  which is what took place.
And, having not been informed by NewDay at that time that further interest for that particular 
statement period would become due, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for Miss S to have 
left the telephone call with NewDay with the understanding that there werent any further 
consequences of her changing the statement date or anything additional that she needed to 
do so as to maintain the balance of her account below the agreed credit limit. And I continue 
to feel that had NewDay explained to Miss S at that time that further interest would be 
calculated for that statement period that Miss S would have made the further payment 
necessary to avoid the credit limit on her account being exceeded and charges being 
incurred.
All of which means that it remains my opinion, given the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, that an unfair outcome has occurred here, and it follows from this that I will be 
upholding this complaint in Miss Ss favour on the basis previously described in my 
provisional decision letter.
Putting things right
NewDay must recall Miss Ss account from the third party with whom it now resides and 
reimburse to the account all fees and charges incurred on the account from January 2019 
onwards. NewDay must also remove all adverse reporting from Miss Ss credit file relating to 
this account from that same date onwards.
NewDay must also contact Miss S and discuss her present financial position with her to
assess whether Miss S can afford to resume the contractual payments that would become
due on her account and provide appropriate forbearance if this is not the case, including
that Miss Ss account may be restricted such that it cannot go further into arrears.
Finally, NewDay must make a payment to Miss S of £100 to compensate her for the distress
and inconvenience this matter may have caused. If a balance remains outstanding for
repayment on Miss Ss NewDay account, NewDay may elect to apply this £100 payment to 
reduce the balance outstanding on the account if they so choose. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd on the basis explained 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman