DRN-3462096
The complaint
Miss D complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund Ourselves) has incorrectly 
recorded two withdrawn loans on her credit file. In order to put things right Miss D has asked 
for these two records to be removed.  
What happened
In total, Miss D has had two loans from Fund Ourselves. The first loan Miss D took on 
4 December 2021. She requested, through email, to withdraw from the credit agreement on 
14 December 2021, and the loan was repaid and closed on 17 December 2021. 
Miss D then had a second loan on 25 December 2021. This time, Miss D requested to 
withdraw from the credit agreement through email on 6 January 2022. The loan was repaid 
and withdrawn on 14 January 2022. 
Miss D is unhappy these loans have been reported to the credit reference agencies because 
she withdrew from the credit agreements within the 14 day cooling off period, Miss D says, 
these two loans should be treated as if they hadnt happened and so shouldnt be reported 
on her credit file. 
Miss D complained to Fund Ourselves to ask it to remove the loans from her credit file. 
Fund Ourselves considered Miss Ds complaint and issued a response. It explained the 
Consumer Credit Act doesnt say that if a customer withdraws from a loan that the record 
has to be removed from the credit file. It went on to say There would be no negative impact 
as you have repaid the loan in full and it would show your balance as £0. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss D referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded that the Information 
Commissioners Office didnt say anything about what a lender can or cannot report to the 
credit reference agencies. 
However, from the guidance he saw, the adjudicator said it was up to the Fund Ourselves 
discretion whether or not it recorded anything with the credit reference agencies. He 
considered what Fund Ourselves was actually reporting on Miss Ds credit file and as it was 
an accurate reflection of how she managed these accounts he couldnt ask 
Fund Ourselves to remove the loans from her credit file.
 
Fund Ourselves didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment.
 
Miss D didnt agree with the outcome and Ive summarised her comments below;
Miss D doesnt consider it fair that a withdrawn loan is treated the same with the 
credit reference agencies as say a loan taken and repaid to term. 
This information will remain on her credit file for six years. 
Miss D was told that these two loans would be marked differently and removed from 
her credit file after two years. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D does suggest that because she cancelled the loan agreement then no information 
should be reported with the credit reference agencies. Ive thought about this carefully and 
while I understand Miss Ds frustration, Fund Ourselves has done nothing wrong in reporting 
these loans to the credit reference agencies as long as it is reporting accurate information, 
Ive explained why below. 
Ive considered what the Consumer Credit Act says about cancelling a credit agreement. 
Specially section 66A. This says:
66AWithdrawal from consumer credit agreement
(1)The debtor under a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, may withdraw from the agreement, without giving any reason, in 
accordance with this section.
(2)To withdraw from an agreement under this section the debtor must give oral or 
written notice of the withdrawal to the creditor before the end of the period of 14 days 
beginning with the day after the relevant day.
So clearly, in this case, Miss D was entitled to withdraw from the two credit agreements as 
long as notice was provided to Fund Ourselves within the 14 day cooling off period. In this 
case, Im satisfied Miss D gave the required notice within the required timescales. Section 
66A of The Consumer Credit Act goes on to say;
(7)Subject as follows, where the debtor withdraws from a regulated consumer credit 
agreement under this section
(a)the agreement shall be treated as if it had never been entered into
So, it maybe that Miss D is relying on the above section to support her view, that as she 
withdrew from the credit agreements then these agreements would be treated as if they 
hadnt been entered into. 
However, there isnt anything within Section 66A that prevents Fund Ourselves from 
reporting factual information with the credit reference agencies, that money was advanced, 
repaid or that an application for credit was made. So, Fund Ourselves reporting these loans, 
isnt in my view, an error. 
However, an error may have been made, if what Fund Ourselves is reporting to the credit 
reference agencies isnt an accurate reflection of the account, for example, an error would 
be made if Fund Ourselves was showing a balance owing or the account is being reported 
as still being open. 
Ive considered the screen shots provided by Miss D which shows these two loan entries. 
The two screen shots Miss D has provided are an accurate reflection of the way she 
managed her accounts. It shows she was granted credit and repaid it, in full within the two-
week cooling off period. There is no outstanding balance and therefore, Im satisfied that 
Fund Ourselves isnt reporting any adverse information on her credit file and what it is 
reporting is a factual representation of how Miss D repaid her two loan accounts. Miss D is correct, in saying that this information will remain on her credit file for a period of 
six years from when the loan recorded has been closed. This is in line with the well-
established approach by the credit reference agencies. 
In terms of the record being removed after two years, there are certain records, such as 
credit searches which are carried out by a company that may drop off after two years. For 
example, if Miss D made an application and was declined following a credit search by a 
lender, then that information may only remain on her credit file for two years. But in the case, 
where a loan account is recorded as being opened and repaid then this will remain on her 
credit file for six years. 
I can see that Miss D was given contradictory information from Fund Ourselves about what 
should be recorded on her credit file and I understand and accept that this wouldve created 
a false impression of what shouldve been recorded. But, Fund Ourselves has since 
provided correct information and the Financial Ombudsman wouldnt seek to make the 
incorrect information provided  correct. This means I wouldnt hold Fund Ourselves to do 
something that it says it cant carry out. So, having thought about this, I dont think any 
award needs to be made in relation to this. 
As the adjudicator said, it does appear that its down to an individual business how it reports 
loans that are repaid within the two-week cooling off period. But ultimately, what 
Fund Ourselves is reporting isnt inaccurate and therefore I cant uphold Miss Ds complaint 
and I cant ask for the records to be deleted. 
I appreciate Miss D will be disappointed with this outcome, but I hope my explanation has 
proved useful for her.
 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman