DRN-3465804
The complaint
Miss M says Monzo Bank Ltd did not recover and refund in full money she paid to a 
fraudulent company.
What happened
Miss M contacted Monzo on 6 October 2021 saying she wanted to raise a chargeback for 
payments she had made to a third party for services that had not been received. She 
provided evidence to support her claim on 11 October. Monzo explained it would not be able 
to raise a chargeback as, amongst other things, the transactions Miss M wanted to dispute 
were all made in February and March 2020. And the Mastercard chargeback scheme rules 
prevent claims being raised more than 120 days after the payment. 
It did however offer £75 as a gesture of goodwill recognising a delay in issuing its response 
to Miss Ms complaint, as well as Miss M needing to repeat information and some confusion 
initially when its Disputes team didnt realise she had received partial refunds for some of the 
transactions she was disputing.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Ms complaint. She said in the circumstances Monzos 
only option was to recover the money was to raise a chargeback. But it has to follow 
Mastercards scheme rules and in this case Miss M had brought her dispute outside of the 
permitted timings. She also noted Miss M had received some of the services from the third 
party, as well as partial refunds. She felt the £75 offered for the service issues was fair. 
Miss M disagreed, saying has she known about the time limit she would have raised this 
sooner. She has provided all the evidence she can to show the third party is fraudulent. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the compliant was passed to me to make a final decision. 
And our investigator explained to Miss M that we could only look at the conduct of Monzo, 
not the third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
As Miss M requested, Monzo could have looked to raise the disputes as chargebacks. In 
certain circumstances card issuers (so here Monzo) can request refunds from sellers by 
raising a chargeback claim  but theres no obligation on an issuer to do this. This system 
has rules which means there are only certain grounds under which a chargeback can 
succeed. So in this case I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its 
decision not to present the four chargebacks on behalf of Miss M. I find that it did as one of 
the Mastercard scheme rules is that claims must be made within 120 days from when a 
transaction is made or when you were due to receive the goods or services. The process the 
third party was helping her with had concluded by March 2021. The transactions were made 
in February and March 2020 and she contacted Monzo about them by phone on 6 October 
2021  so all relevant dates were far outside the 120-day limit. 
So based on the chargeback rules I think Monzos decision was fair and reasonable.
I also find the £75 offered (£25 for the delay in sending a final response letter and £50 for the 
misunderstanding over the partial refunds and the need to repeat information) to be fair and 
reasonable. I have considered the impact of these issues on Miss M to reach this 
conclusion.
I am sorry Miss M feels she has paid for a service she did not receive but for the reasons set 
out above I cannot fairly conclude Monzo ought to have done anything differently in assisting 
her to recover the money.
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman