DRN-3372569
The complaint
Mr G complains because Astrenska Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim for a cancelled 
holiday under his travel insurance policy. 
All references to Astrenska include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr G booked a holiday on 3 March 2020 and bought a single trip travel insurance policy, 
provided by Astrenska, on 9 March 2020. He was due to fly into a country which Ill call S 
on 15 March 2020 and, from there, travel to and stay at a ski resort in a country which Ill call 
F until 22 March 2020. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 as a pandemic. On the 
evening of 14 March 2020, Mr Gs airline cancelled his upcoming flight. The airline said it 
was cancelling all flights to Mr Gs intended destination because of local measures 
introduced throughout S to prevent the spread of Covid-19. On the same evening, the ski 
resort in F where Mr G was intending to stay said:
Following the announcements made by the Prime Minister this evening, please be 
informed that  is obliged to close all its ski areas, tourist sites & mountain 
restaurants as of tomorrow morning, Sunday 15th March 2020 until further notice. 
Mr G was unable to travel and he made a claim under his policy with Astrenska for his 
unused, non-refundable accommodation costs. 
Astrenska initially told Mr G his claim didnt fall within the cover provided by his policy, and 
that his accommodation provider should give him a full refund. Astrenska subsequently said 
there were no travel restrictions in force on 14 March 2020, so Mr Gs claim wasnt covered 
under his policy.  
Mr G complained to Astrenska, who maintained its position about the claim but paid Mr G 
£30 compensation for its delays in assessing the matter. Unhappy, Mr G brought his 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he thought Astrenska 
should reassess Mr Gs claim and pay him £100 compensation for its errors and delays. 
Astrenska didnt agree with our investigators opinions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) say insurers 
should handle claims promptly and fairly, shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim and should 
provide a policyholder with appropriate information on a claims progress. Ive taken these 
rules into account when making my decision about Mr Gs complaint. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy say that Astrenska will pay for certain costs if a 
holiday is cancelled for one of a list of specified, insured reasons. These include:
7. a government directive prohibiting all travel to the country or area you were 
planning to visit, as a result of a natural disaster (e.g. earthquake, fire, flood, 
hurricane or epidemic). 
Based on the evidence available to me, I cant fairly say that a directive which prohibited all 
travel had been issued by the governments of S, F or the UK on 14 March 2020. This means 
that I dont think Mr Gs claim is covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. 
However, my over-riding remit is to reach an outcome thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances and I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions 
produces a fair and reasonable outcome in this case. This is because I think theres clear 
evidence that the reason Mr Gs airline cancelled all its flights to his intended destination was 
because of local government restrictions in S as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr Gs 
airline confirmed this in an email to him at 21.00 on 14 March 2020. 
While I havent been able to confirm the exact time of the announcement made by the Prime 
Minister of F on the evening of 14 March 2020, Im satisfied its likely this announcement was 
made within a maximum of an hour of Mr Gs airline cancelling his flight. 
So, based on the very specific facts of this case, Im satisfied that the reason for Mr Gs 
inability to travel was government directives in S and F. Regardless of the fact that Mr Gs 
airlines announcement may have come up to an hour before the announcement by the 
Prime Minister of F, I think that government directives in S and F were the underlying reason 
for this claim. While the directives might not have prohibited all travel, I think the effect of the 
directives was that Mr G was prohibited both from travelling to S and from staying in the area 
in F where hed booked to visit. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that a pandemic is simply a more wide-ranging 
version of an epidemic. So, I think the examples of a natural disaster which are set out in 
Mr Gs policy can fairly be considered to include pandemics as well as epidemics. Overall, 
this means I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Astrenska to treat 
Mr Gs claim as being covered under the cancellation section of his policy.
Astrenska also said it thought Mr Gs claim wasnt covered under his policy because of an 
exclusion which says the following are not covered:
15. any costs recoverable from another source;.
Astrenska says Mr Gs accommodation provider is liable to repay the costs of his 
accommodation booking to him. However, Mr G has provided evidence that his 
accommodation provider isnt willing to give him a refund, and his accommodation booking 
doesnt benefit from the protection provided by The Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018. Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mr G is entitled to 
make a S75 claim or a chargeback claim against his bank. 
So, it appears that Mr Gs only recourse would therefore be to take his accommodation 
provider to court to recover his money. Ive considered whether I think this is a fair or 
reasonable position for Mr G to be left in. In doing so, Ive read all the information which 
Astrenska has sent to us. Ive also had regard to guidance published by the FCA on cancellation and refunds, which says the FCA would generally view it as unreasonable to 
expect consumers in certain situations to go to court to recover their money. Ive also taken 
into account Astrenskas subrogation rights under its contract with Mr G, as well as the fact 
that Mr G has paid a premium to purchase this policy in return for Astrenska assuming 
certain risks on his behalf. 
Overall, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Astrenska to rely on the policy exclusion which 
Ive quoted above to turn down Mr Gs claim. 
In response to our investigators opinions, Astrenska said it considers the cancellation of Mr 
Gs holiday was predictable. However, Im not aware of any travel insurer that had publicly 
stated it considered Covid-19 to be a reasonably foreseeable issue or event which it didnt 
wish to insure at the time Mr G bought his policy on 9 March 2020. And, while I appreciate 
Astrenska wasnt responsible for the sale of this policy, Id expect any proposed exclusions 
about Covid-19 to have been made clear to policyholders when buying their policy. 
Ive considered the delays, and the conflicting information which I think was provided to Mr 
G, by Astrenska in this case. While Ive borne in mind the unexpected and unprecedented 
challenges which the Covid-19 pandemic presented to travel insurers, I think an overall 
payment of £100 would be fair and reasonable compensation for the impact the situation had 
on Mr G.
Putting things right
Astrenska Insurance Limited needs to put things right by reassessing Mr Gs claim under the 
cancellation section of his policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions. 
Astrenska Insurance Limited also needs to pay Mr G a total of £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced. This includes the £30 compensation already 
paid. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Gs complaint against Astrenska Insurance Limited and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman