DRN-4456348
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) assessed 
her critical illness claim on an unfair basis  leading them to decline what she believes to be 
a valid claim. 
What happened
In mid-2002, Mrs H bought a policy from L&G, which provided her with £40,000 life and 
critical illness cover.  The policy has now expired.
In 2009, Mrs H was diagnosed with a chronic liver condition, which can worsen over time.  
The condition can cause various problems, including chronic fatigue and brain fog.  
In 2017, these symptoms led to Mrs H leaving her full-time employment and taking 
alternative part-time work closer to home.  At this time, she made an unsuccessful claim on 
the policy.  This doesnt form part of her complaint.  By early 2020, Mrs H found it too difficult 
to continue her part-time employment and resigned.  She hasnt worked since.
Mrs H made a second claim in spring 2021.  As the policy didnt cover her specific condition, 
L&G considered it under the permanent and total disability (PTD) definition.  This says that 
PTD will be assessed on an own occupation basis if the claimant is in employment 
immediately before the onset of the disability  or, if not, on their ability to perform a range of 
daily tasks.
L&G said that, because there was no evidence Mrs Hs symptoms were present at the time 
she left her job, they assessed her on her ability to perform the daily tasks.  On that basis, 
Mrs H didnt meet the policy criteria.  So L&G declined the claim.
Mrs H complained.  L&G didnt change their position.  So Mrs H brought her complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded L&G didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it.  She noted L&G had reviewed the medical information received and had seen no 
mention of Mrs Hs symptoms until the end of 2020  about nine months after shed left her 
job.  So she thought it was reasonable for L&G not to assess her claim on an own 
occupation basis.  And she said L&Gs conclusion Mrs H didnt meet the criteria on an 
activities of daily living basis was fair because she could undertake the majority of the tasks 
without assistance. 
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view as she didnt think L&G had approached the 
right doctors for information about her condition.  The complaints now been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint.  I know this will be an upsetting 
outcome for her to receive and Im sorry about that.  I hope it will help if I explain the reasons 
behind my decision.
Mrs Hs policy provided cover for a number of specific conditions.  For each condition, the 
policy sets out a definition to determine whether it is covered.
The condition from which Mrs H suffers isnt one which is listed in the policy.  So a claim was 
submitted, and considered, under the Permanent and Total Disability before age 65 
section.
There are two parts to the definition, depending on whether or not the claimant was 
employed immediately before the claim was made.  The relevant section reads:
The Guaranteed Sum Assured will be payable:
(a) If the Life Assured, before age 65 is not in gainful occupation immediately before the 
onset of disability, and suffers through illness or accident, a mental or physical irreversible 
disability, which in the opinion of The Chief Medical Officer of Legal & General, results in the 
Life Assured being permanently unable to perform, without the direct assistance of another 
person, four or more of the [activities of daily living]:
OR
(b) If the Life Assured, before age 65, is engaged in a in a gainful occupation immediately 
before the onset of disability and is, by reason of sickness or accident, totally unable to 
follow her own occupation and in the opinion of Legal & General is likely to remain so 
permanently. Such decision will be based on all the medical evidence available.
L&G considered both definitions in relation to Mrs Hs claim.  I understand from what Ive 
seen its not disputed that she doesnt meet the criteria for part (a), because she can 
complete the majority of the activities of daily living without support.  So Ive focused on part 
(b) and the information about Mrs H leaving her job.
L&Gs position is that Mrs H doesnt meet that definition because her medical notes dont 
evidence the impact symptoms had on her immediately before and after she left her job.  
Mrs H says thats because she always tried to maintain a positive outlook and not complain 
how bad she was feeling.  And she says it was up to her whether to share her health issues 
with her employer  whom she never made aware of her condition.  She says her medical 
records are not proof of her illness.
I sympathise with Mrs Hs position and understand why she takes the view she does.  Ive 
thought very carefully about what shes said about her condition, all the evidence provided 
and the impact shes described on her day-to-day life before reaching a conclusion about her 
complaint.
But I have to take into account that businesses like L&G dont  nor are they expected to  
approach each claim in a manner bespoke to that claimant.  We expect them to deal with 
claims in accordance with the terms of the policy  and to apply those terms consistently to 
all claimants.
That means I have to consider the policy conditions Ive quoted above.   There are several 
elements on which L&G need to be satisfied before paying a claim.  Firstly, Mrs H needed to be in a gainful employment immediately before the onset of 
disability.  That is difficult to judge, because there is no single point of onset.  Mrs H was 
diagnosed with the condition in 2009, since when it progressed.
In the circumstances, it was reasonable for L&G to request information to help them pinpoint 
a date.  They didnt receive anything to show that onset occurred in early 2020.  And, while I 
note  and accept  Mrs Hs comments about telling her employer her reason for leaving and 
about her interactions with her medical team, that (unfortunately for her claim) means theres 
no evidence on which L&G can base onset as being early 2020.  I cant say thats unfair.
Nor was it unreasonable in my view for L&G to conclude that Mrs H was not permanently 
disabled by her condition.  Ive reviewed the medical information shes provided, which 
covers the period both before and after she left her employment.  
That shows she continued to be treated for the condition, with regular medication reviews 
and changes suggested when her treatment team thought that might help manage the 
condition better.  Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that L&G reviewed this information 
and also noted the possibility of further options  including ultimately a liver transplant.  So I 
think it was reasonable for L&G to conclude the permanent element of the definition hadnt 
been met.
Ive no doubt that Mrs H faces a daily struggle with the symptoms shes described and that 
that have a significant impact on her life.  But, while I know this will be unwelcome news, I 
think L&Gs assessment of her condition against the terms of her policy was reasonable.  So 
I dont think they need to do any more to resolve her complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint about Legal and 
General Assurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman