DRN-1567634
The complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a store card. 
AXA France IARD, has accepted responsibility for the sale.
What happened
In May 1994, Mrs H applied for a store card from a retailer. She did not buy PPI at that time. 
PPI was added to the account in January 1997, following a telephone conversation, and was 
cancelled in August 1997.
The cost of the policy was charged to the account based on what Mrs H owed. So she'd 
repay this extra amount as part of her card repayments. 
Mrs H thinks the policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. He didn't think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mrs H didn't agree with the adjudicator. As the adjudicator could not resolve the matter 
informally, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
I've taken this into account in deciding Mrs H's complaint.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered if Mrs H knew she had a choice to have PPI on her account. Mrs H says 
that the PPI was compulsory, and that she was told she had to have the PPI, even though 
she didn't need it. She says that, given a choice, she would never have agreed to take out 
PPI. I've thought about what Mrs H has said alongside the other information I've seen about 
the sale.
Because of the time that's passed, AXA doesn't have a recording of the phone call in which it 
sold Mrs H the policy. But I don't think that's surprising given the policy was sold in 1997, 
over 23 years ago - and cancelled just a few months later. I wouldn't have expected AXA to 
keep this information indefinitely. So I've thought about what Mrs H has said alongside the 
other information that is available.
I note that Mrs H had the card for number of years before the policy was added to the 
account. I don't think it's likely, then, that she'd have thought this policy was a requirement of 
the account. I also note that the policy was cancelled in August 1997 - but the account itself 
remained open until 2009. I'm also mindful that memories can and do fade with time. So 
thought I don't doubt that Mrs H now feels strongly she was told she had to have the policy, I 
can't say this is most likely based just on what she's said. For these reasons, though Mrs H 
feels strongly that she didn't want the PPI, I think it's more likely that she agreed to buy it.AXA says the sale didn't follow a recommendation. So it didn't need to check whether the 
policy was right for Mrs H. But it did need to give Mrs H the information she needed to work 
out for herself if she wanted it.
I think it's possible the information AXA gave Mrs H about the policy wasn't clear 
enough. But based on what Mrs H has told us about her circumstances, I'm not persuaded 
that clearer information would have changed her decision to buy the policy. I recognise that 
she got some sick pay from her employer, and had other means that would have helped her 
to meet this financial commitment. Equally, though, the policy would have paid 15% of the 
outstanding balance of her account each month until the account was repaid in full if she'd 
lost her job or been off work sick. I think this would have been in addition to the pay she got 
from her employer. It also doesn't appear that there was anything in the terms and 
conditions that would have made it harder for her to claim on the policy. So it appears it may 
have been useful to Mrs H had anything gone wrong.
I've considered everything else Mrs H has said. But this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman