DRN-3312525
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy they held with 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. They believe that Prudential didnt administer 
the policy correctly in that it didnt allocate the right amount to the policy on a monthly basis 
from 2005, which has resulted in the policy falling short of its target value.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J arranged a mortgage endowment policy with Prudential in 1996 through an 
independent financial adviser. It had a target maturity value of £44,180 and provided life 
cover of the same amount over the 25-year term. The policy had a monthly premium of 
£70.40.
The policy schedule set out that until January 2020, 63.5% of the monthly premium would be 
invested. From January 2000 to November 2005, 97.75% would be invested and thereafter 
103.25% would be invested. 
In September 2021 Prudential wrote to Mr and Mrs J reminding them that the policy was due 
to mature shortly. It set out what they needed to do to claim the maturity value. It also told 
them that it estimated that the maturity value would be just under £41,000. 
Mr and Mrs J complained on 17 September 2021. They said that believed the shortfall 
predicted in the maturity value was due to a shortfall in the investment content of their 
monthly premium Prudential had applied to the policy. They highlighted that the policy 
schedule said that 103.25% of each premium would be invested in the fund from 
1 November 2005, but less than 100% had been invested from that date. As such, they 
asked that Prudential looked again at the maturity value of the policy and update it 
accordingly.
Prudential sent Mr and Mrs J just over £41,000 on 27 October 2021.
Prudential didnt issue a final response letter, due to some confusion with a previous 
complaint made by Mr and Mrs J about the policy. As such, Mr and Mrs J referred the 
complaint to this service. 
When we asked Prudential for evidence about the premium allocation, it provided a system 
print for the policy which showed the amounts invested in the fund for the policy. It detailed 
that in October 2005 £68.82 was allocated to the policy. From 1 November 2005 £72.69 was 
invested. Prudential also explained that the 100% mentioned on the statement Mr and Mrs J 
had referred to confirmed that 100% of the investment was held in the Managed Fund, rather 
than it being split across different funds. 
One of our investigators consider the complaint. He confirmed that the evidence we had 
showed that the correct amount had been allocated and so the complaint didnt succeed. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They reiterated that they didnt 
believe that Prudential had invested 103.25% of the monthly premium each month from 
November 2005. They didnt provide any documentary evidence to support this statement. 
They also commented that Prudential had known about their concern for over three years, 
due to comments they made in a previous complaint, but hadnt commented on the issue 
until we asked for evidence. Mr and Mrs J said that they thought that Prudential simply 
ignored them and avoided the issue. They felt that valuable information was withheld from 
them. They also indicated that they didnt believe the evidence that was provided was 
genuine. They asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
Subsequently, Mr and Mrs J commented on how we should investigate their complaint. They 
also said they wanted us to look into why Prudential hadnt provided them with information 
about the policy allocation, despite them asking for it for over three years. They also said 
that I should include in my determination whether Prudentials behaviours had any bearing 
on the series of complaints, postal costs, and telephone costs they had incurred.
The investigator responded to the points Mr and Mrs J had made. He didnt think that the 
premium allocation information not being provided earlier caused Mr and Mrs J to suffer a 
loss. He also explained why he didnt think that Prudential needed to provide further 
evidence about the policy allocation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations. Were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. It is up to us to identify what the issues are in a complaint, 
and to decide what evidence we need in order to investigate that complaint. So although I 
have noted Mr and Mrs Js comments on what evidence they consider we should request 
from Prudential, I am satisfied that I have sufficient evidence to form a decision.
Mr and Mrs J have said they dont believe that Prudential allocated as much money to the 
policy as it was meant to under the contract terms that were entered into. I have seen 
excerpts from Prudentials system records showing the amounts allocated to the policy 
before November 2005, in November 2005 and at various points thereafter. I am satisfied 
that this evidences that Prudential made the allocations it was obliged to under the terms of 
the contract it entered into with Mr and Mrs J. 
While Mr and Mrs J have said that they have been asking for information about the allocation 
rates for three years, they havent provided any evidence of these requests. The only 
mention of the allocation rates that has been provided is their complaint letter of 
September 2021. I would also comment that given the first complaint they raised was in 
2007, the lack of information had it been requested for the last three years, couldnt 
reasonably be said to have caused Mr and Mrs J to have needed to raise their previous 
complaints. Nor does it appear that their previous complaints were directly linked to the 
allocation rate applied to the policy. 
Overall, I am satisfied that the evidence shows that Prudential administered Mr and Mrs Js 
policy in line with the terms and conditions. As such, I cant find that it did anything wrong 
and so I cant uphold this complaint. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs J to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 October 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman