DRN-4198278
The complaint
Mr V is complaining about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has said it wants to settle a claim 
he made on his commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2021 Mr V became aware of a leak in a property he owns and rents out. He 
arranged for a contractor to come and resolve the issue who initially diagnosed an issue with 
the sealant in the toilet. But this didnt resolve the issue, so Mr V arranged for the contractor 
to come back. Mr V says the issue was found to be down to a broken pipe coming from the 
bath. The contractor replaced that section which resolved the issue. 
Mr V then contacted AXA to claim for the damage arising from the escape of water and he 
provided an estimate of around £25,000 to put things right. He said the water had leaked 
down to the kitchen and damaged some cabinets. As a result, he said he needed to replace 
the kitchen. 
AXA then appointed another company  who I shall refer to as B  to handle the claim on its 
behalf. B inspected the property and said the majority of the cost Mr V had presented was 
for items that werent damaged by the escape of water. B said the property was in poor 
condition with evidence of a number of temporary repairs having been carried out. It 
estimated the cost of repairing the insurance related damage to be around £1,192.
Given Bs comments, AXA said it would settle the claim by paying Mr V £1,192, less his 
excess of £400. Mr V didnt agree with this so he referred his complaint to this Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Vs complaint. He thought it was fair for AXA to say the 
majority of the repair estimate Mr V had provided related to items that werent damaged in 
the escape of water.
Mr V didnt agree with the investigator. He said he needed to replace some kitchen cabinets, 
but to do so hed need to replace everything. And he said he understood he was entitled to 
50% of the cost of replacing non-damaged items under the principles of matching sets.
The investigator still didnt think AXA needed to pay to replace items that werent damaged 
by the claim. He also highlighted that B didnt inspect the property until six months after the 
escape of water. Mr V didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
AXA has set out to this Service why its not paying to replace the kitchen. And its said that 
the kitchen was generally in a poor condition. In particular its said that theres clear evidence 
of pre-existing damage to the seals to the rear of the kitchen sink and to the wall tiles around 
the windowsill. Its also said that the kitchen units were in a poor condition, also showing pre-
existing damage. It also said there appeared to have been several leaks previously arising 
from within the bathroom, which it said was evidenced by expanding foam being applied to 
the edge of the bath panel and the seals around the bath were in a poor condition
Ive looked at the photographs B has taken and they support what AXA has said. Its evident 
from these photographs that the property was in a poor state of repair with evidence of pre-
existing damage unrelated to the claim.
I recognise that some of the cabinets have evidence of water damage, but I cant agree that 
this means that AXA should replace Mr Vs kitchen. Its a standard principle of insurance that 
insurers arent required to put a consumer in a better position than they were before  a 
principle often referred to as betterment. Under the terms of the insurance policy, AXA was 
required to pay to repair or replace the damaged property. AXA has estimated that it would 
cost around £1,192 to do this. And its provided evidence of how its calculated this. Ive 
reviewed this estimate and it largely seems fair.
Mr V has provided a detail of all the work that he says needs doing. Ive reviewed his repair 
estimate and also taken AXAs comments into consideration. But, as I said, its clear the 
property was in a poor state of repair before the incident and I think the vast majority of work 
included in his estimate isnt down to the leak. So I dont think it was unfair for AXA to not 
cover this.
I note, however, Mr V has said that AXA should pay to replace all the kitchen cabinets 
because hell need to do so to put things right. And hes said this Services usual approach is 
to require insurers to pay 50% towards undamaged items. The terms of the policy also set 
out that AXA will treat an individual item of a matching set of items or suite of furniture or 
sanitaryware or other bathroom fittings as a single item. We will pay you for individual 
damaged items but not undamaged companion pieces. If the individual damaged items 
cannot be repaired or a replacement found we will also pay up to 50% towards the 
undamaged part of the set or suite of furniture, sanitary ware or bathroom fittings.
I agreed with Mr Vs comments in this regard and I previously wrote to both parties and 
explained that at least one of the kitchen cabinets were damaged by the leak in question. 
And I understand it can't be repaired or replaced. So it seems to me that Mr V is entitled to 
50% of the cost of replacing the kitchen cabinets under the terms of the policy. I recognise 
the cabinets were in a poor condition before the event, but this is why the policy only covers 
up to 50% of the replacement cost. So I think AXA should have also said it would pay 50% of 
the cost of replacing the undamaged cabinets on a like for like basis. AXA recently said it 
had tried to understand from its contractor why it didnt include this cost in its estimate, but 
the contractor hasnt replied. However, it said it agreed to include this cost.
Ultimately, I cant say it was unreasonable for AXA to be minded by the condition of the 
property before the escape of water. And I think its reasonably demonstrated that a fair 
repair cost was £1,192. But it should also pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged 
cabinets on a like for like basis. 
Mr V has asked how much this would mean he would receive, but this is a matter for him to 
discuss with AXA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged cabinets on a like for 
like basis in addition to the £1,192 its previously said it would pay to settle the claim.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2024. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman