DRN-2940765
The complaint
Mr B complains Revolut Ltd stopped him accessing his account and unfairly returned a 
payment to a payer. He wants the payment refunded and compensation for how he was 
treated. 
What happened
Mr B held a Revolut account. He received a payment from a third-party in early 2020. He 
says the payment was made to pay off a loan he lent to the third-party a few years earlier.
Revolut reviewed the payment shortly after it credited Mr Bs account. It restricted the 
account and asked him for information about the payment and his wider circumstances. Mr B 
provided a copy of the loan agreement, a copy of what he said was an application to a bailiff 
in the country he resides, as well as copies of documents related to his business and salary.
Revolut also asked Mr B for payment confirmation from the third party. At that time, Mr B 
said the third party refused to help because they had avoided paying the loan for some time. 
He said the application he made to the bailiff had finally prompted them to repay the loan. He 
said he couldnt provide further confirmation from the bailiff because the debt was now 
deemed as paid.
Mr B complained to Revolut, but Revolut said it could stop him accessing his account during 
its review. So, Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Revolut decided to return the payment to the third-party in September 2020. It said it hadnt 
received what it needed to conclude Mr B was entitled to the payment. 
Mr B says he was able to get the information Revolut had asked for later on and he passed it 
to Revolut. Revolut then decided to close his account, at which point he discovered the 
payment had already been returned.
An investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint in part. They found:
Mr Bs loss stemmed from what appeared to be a civil matter about whether a 
payment was made to pay off a loan. But our service could not fairly decide that 
matter. So, it was not possible to make a finding on whether Revolut ought to have 
allowed Mr B access to the payment and not returned it to source.
Revolut restricted Mr Bs account for too long. Although Revolut had concerns about 
the payment, it didnt have concerns about the remaining balance in Mr Bs account. 
It ought to have allowed him access to those funds earlier than it did. 
Revolut repeatedly asked Mr B for the same evidence, which Mr B said he couldnt 
provide. This was unnecessary and must have been frustrating for Mr B. Revolut 
should pay him £200 to make up for its poor service.
Revolut accepted the investigators findings and agreed to pay £200, but Mr B disagreed. He 
said Revolut could not decide who was entitled to the money, and it could not return the 
payment without his permission. The investigator responded and said Revolut could 
investigate whether its customer was entitled to funds held in their account. 
Mr B asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint, but I am not awarding any further redress above 
the £200 recommended by the investigator. Ill explain why:
Revolut can conduct reviews into its customers and investigate the source of funds 
held in accounts. It has wide legal and regulatory obligations it must comply with, 
which go beyond its general duty to simply obey its customers mandate. 
If Revolut didnt, when appropriate, review accounts, prevent customers accessing 
accounts or return funds back to payers, it could risk serious sanction.
Mr B encountered difficulty getting the third party to pay off their loan. He said they 
only acted when he applied to the bailiffs. So, I understand his frustration when he 
couldnt access the payment after it was made. But considering all the wider 
available information, I understand why Revolut was concerned. And, on balance, Im 
satisfied its decision to prevent Mr Bs access to the payment was fair.
Mr B may want to know the full reasons behind Revoluts decision, but I know of no 
legal obligation which required Revolut to disclose them to him. And considering the 
full circumstances of the complaint, I understand why Revolut chose not to reveal 
anything further to him.
I have carefully considered the information Mr B provided in support the of the 
existence of the loan and the purpose behind the payment. And I have also 
considered all the other information and evidence available, which Revolut also had 
to consider. And, based on what I have seen, I cannot conclude Revolut were wrong 
to take the action it did. I understand why it thought it would risk breaching its legal 
and regulatory obligations if it allowed Mr B access to the payment.
Mr B knows the third party received the payment back to their account. But whether 
he has legal recourse against the third party or not doesnt mean Revolut should not 
have returned the payment when it did. At that time, Mr B could not provide the 
evidence it wanted to see, and Revolut had other important information to weigh. 
Overall, I have seen insufficient evidence to fairly conclude Revoluts decision to 
return the payment was wrong.
Revolut took too long to release the other funds in Mr Bs account to him. And I agree 
with the investigator that asking Mr B for information which he repeatedly said he 
couldnt provide must have been very frustrating. I find £200 is a proportionate sum to make up for the trouble and inconvenience he was caused.   
Putting things right
Revolut need to pay £200 to Mr B if he accepts this final decision. If he accepts the decision, 
payment should be made within 28 days of his acceptance being communicated to Revolut.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct Revolut Ltd to pay Mr B redress 
according to my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman