DRN-2826546
The complaint
Ms C complains about the way Simplyhealth Access has administered her private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C had a Simply Cash Plan private medical insurance policy. The policy year began on 1 
June 2019 and was due to expire on 31 May 2020. The policy provided Ms C with a range of 
benefits. 
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. On 21 March 2020, due to the large numbers of 
patients suffering from Covid-19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to 
provide support to the NHS. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed by the 
UK government.
In May 2020, Ms C got in touch with Simplyhealth to ask whether it planned to extend the 
terms of its annual policies. She explained she hadnt been able to undergo planned 
treatments during the policy year due to Covid-19. Simplyhealth told Ms C it could offer her 
two options. Either it could look into offering her a two-month payment holiday or it could 
extend her remaining policy entitlements for the 2019-20 policy year until 30 September 
2020. This would mean Ms C could still claim eligible policy entitlements for the 2019-20 
policy year during that time. It explained that Ms C would need to continue to pay her 
monthly premiums if she wanted to extend the policy entitlement period.
Ms C was unhappy with these options, as she felt she shouldnt be charged a premium when 
she couldnt access the policy benefits. She asked us to look into her complaint. Ms C also 
cancelled her monthly direct debit payment for the policy, which was ultimately cancelled by 
Simplyhealth in September 2020. This was backdated to 1 June 2020.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Cs complaint should be upheld. She noted that Ms C would 
still have been entitled to some benefits under the policy during lockdown. And she didnt 
think the options Simplyhealth had given Ms C had put her at a financial disadvantage. 
Thats because if Ms C had extended her policy, her 2019-20 policy entitlements wouldve 
remained open for an additional four-month period, on top of the new entitlements shed 
have been able to claim during the 2020-21 policy year.
Ms C disagreed. She didnt think the investigators conclusions were logical. She felt she 
was around £67 out of pocket, because she hadnt been able to make her usual claims. 
Shed had around £240 of unused policy entitlements for the 2019-20 policy year, which she 
hadnt been able to make use of. She didnt think either a payment holiday or policy 
extension wouldve been useful, as services wouldve still been unavailable due to the 
ongoing pandemic. She said the complaint had been ongoing for around a year, during 
which time shed had no medical insurance and shed been disadvantaged through no fault 
of her own.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms C, I think Simplyhealth has treated her 
fairly. Ill explain why. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Ms Cs complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of her contract with 
Simplyhealth as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Ms Cs policy, as these form the basis of her 
contract with Simplyhealth. They say Ms Cs plan is for one year, and that premiums must be 
paid for Simplyhealth to provide cover during that year. There is no provision in the policy for 
Simplyhealth to provide payment holidays or to extend/defer annual policies during the policy 
year.
Insurance policies are intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the 
duration of the contract. An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to 
cover the risk during that time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. 
Simplyhealth provided cover under Ms Cs private medical insurance policy from 1 June 
2019 to 1 June 2020. Ms C has told us that she did make three claims during the policy year, 
before national lockdown was imposed in March 2020, although she didnt use up her full 
policy entitlements. Simplyhealth is entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk 
of her making a claim during the policy year though.
However, the industry regulator acknowledged that the pandemic may impact on 
policyholders financial situations. So it issued guidance over the months following lockdown 
which set out some of the options insurers could offer their customers to assist them. One of 
these options was a payment holiday.
Simplyhealth has sent us a copy of its records of online chats between Ms C and its agents 
during May and June 2020. I can see from those records that Ms C was told that 
Simplyhealth could offer her two options  either a two-month payment holiday or an 
extension on her claiming year until September 2020. While Ms C wouldve needed to 
continue to pay her premiums during a policy extension, shed have been entitled to make 
use of her remaining policy limits for the 2019-20 policy year for a further four months. This 
wouldve been in addition to the new policy year entitlements which wouldve begun again at 
renewal in June 2020. 
So I think Simplyhealths offer of a payment holiday was in line with the regulators guidance. 
And while it transpired that some private medical services remained limited during 2020, I 
dont think Simplyhealths extension offer was unreasonable at the point it was offered. At 
that point, it seems to me that Simplyhealths intention was that by extending the entitlement 
period, no policyholder would lose out on any of their policy entitlements or pay more for 
cover they hadnt been able to use. My role isnt to look at complaints with the benefit of 
hindsight. And based on the information Simplyhealth had at the time, I think its options were 
reasonable.
Id add that I dont think its accurate to say Ms Cs policy was unusable. Ms C had access 
to, amongst other things, online physio; GP services and urgent appointments. If Ms C had 
been able to undergo her planned treatments, or buy new glasses, then it seems to me that Simplyhealth wouldve reimbursed these costs under her policy entitlements. I wouldnt 
ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical services 
were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control. Simplyhealth doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the facilities its members use. And the requisitioning of insurer-
approved private facilities, together with restrictions on the availability of opticians, 
chiropodists and physiotherapists, was something which was outside of its control. 
In any event though, Ms C cancelled her direct debit in June 2020. The policy has now been 
cancelled with effect from 1 June 2020. So I dont think that there are any premiums for 
Simplyhealth to now waive or refund, or any remaining policy entitlements for Ms C to claim.
Overall, I dont think Simplyhealth has done anything wrong which it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman