DRN-4448607
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money 
once hed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Mr R holds the Nationwide account in joint names with Miss E. In June 2022, he chose to 
invest in cryptocurrency, using a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as C. While 
he was using Cs app, he saw a pop-up claiming to provide an opportunity to make more 
money by earning rewards. Mr R clicked on the pop-up and was taken to a live-chat with 
someone claiming to be a broker.
The broker offered Mr R the opportunity to enter a mining pool where additional profits 
could be made. He sent him a link to another wallet and said he would need to deposit 
£50,000 within 11 days. On 18 June 2022, after Mr R had completed the last payment for the 
reward activity, the broker told him he had triggered the double lucky reward activity and 
that he would need to make further deposits. Mr R told the broker he didnt want the double 
reward and that he had no knowledge that it had been triggered. But the broker said that 
once triggered, the activity couldnt be changed and unless he completed the double reward, 
he wouldnt be able to withdraw his funds. 
Between 13 June 2022 and 7 July 2022, Mr R made 41 transfers from his Nationwide 
account totalling £175,400. During the scam period he received £23,500 worth of credits into 
his account. He eventually realised hed been scammed when he was asked to make further 
deposits to avoid the account being frozen, and the broker stopped responding to his 
messages. He complained to Nationwide arguing that even though it did block some 
payments, the questions he was asked werent probing or open-ended and it failed to 
provide a tailored or effective warning. 
But Nationwide refused to refund any of the money hed lost. It explained that when it 
contacted him, he said he was sending funds to his own cryptocurrency wallet and that it 
couldnt accept liability for the payments because the money was sent to a cryptocurrency 
wallet which was under Mr Rs control.
Mr R wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said that if Nationwide had 
recognised the payments as unusual it would have been able to provide tailored warnings 
which would have protected him from financial harm. He wanted it to refund the money hed 
lost and pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered as a result 
of the scam, and to indemnify him against any liability for costs.
His representative said Nationwide should have intervened as he made 41 payments to a 
new payee linked to cryptocurrency within the space of one month, having transferred large 
sums of money into the account before quickly dispersing it. They said Nationwide should 
have intervened when Mr R made the second payment of £4,500 on 13 June 2022 as by this 
point, £9,000 had debited the account in a single day.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She noted Nationwide had 
contacted Mr R on 25 May 2022 because he made a payment which was blocked by VISA. 
And there was a further call on 26 May 2022 when he said he was trying to buy 
cryptocurrency. She commented that Nationwide didnt give any scam warnings or ask any 
questions about the reason for the payments during those calls, but there was a further call 
on 26 May 2022 when the activity on the account was discussed in detail. 
On 26 May 2022, the call handler said that when there are repeated payments to 
cryptocurrency platforms, they need to check for scams as people are being coerced into 
making payments by fake brokers. Mr R said hed been talking to a few people and was 
prepared to lose the money. He said no one had been in touch with him, hed done it all by 
himself and hed researched the investment. He confirmed the funds had been received into 
the cryptocurrency account and re-iterated there was no third party involved and that he 
could afford to lose the money. He also said he was the only person who had access to the 
cryptocurrency wallet. Our investigator noted that Nationwide had explained that if anyone 
contacted him out of the blue in relation to cryptocurrency, it was likely to be scammers and 
she was satisfied the warning was meaningful as it included information about 
cryptocurrency scams. 
During another call on 30 May 2022, the call handler told Mr R about the increase in scams 
and referred him to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website to make sure the 
investment was genuine. Mr R acknowledged the scam risk and assured the call handler 
that he wasnt going to give any information away. 
In another call on 13 June 2022, Mr R said he was trying to buy cryptocurrency, there was 
no third party involved and he was doing everything himself. He wasnt given a scam 
warning, but our investigator didnt think it would have made a difference because when he 
called Nationwide to report the scam on 15 July 2022, he explained he had firmly believed 
he was dealing with C, so Nationwide wouldnt have been able to uncover the scam.
Our investigator thought the repeated payments of £4,500 were unusual but based on the 
interactions Mr R had with Nationwide before and including the first scam payment, and the 
fact he genuinely thought he was dealing with C, she didnt think an intervention before 20 
June 2022 would have made a difference.
But she thought that if it had intervened after that point, it could have made a difference to 
the outcome. This is because on 18 June 2022, Mr R had become frustrated with the broker 
at being required to make further deposits to get double rewards, which had been triggered 
without his knowledge. This was the first time during the scam period that he had felt 
concerned about what he was being asked to do by the broker and she thought that if 
Nationwide had intervened after this point, it might have made a difference to the outcome.
She thought Nationwide should have intervened on 21 June 2022, when Mr R made a 
further payment of £4,500 because he was paying a high-risk merchant and the overall 
spend was £72,500, which was highly unusual. She thought Nationwide should have asked 
him about the increase in spending and warned him that issues with cryptocurrency usually 
arise when victims ask to withdraw funds. Had it done so, she thought that as Mr R was 
frustrated about the continued requests for further deposits, hed have told Nationwide what 
he was being asked to do, which would have revealed the scam. 
Because of this, she thought Nationwide should refund the money Mr R had lost from 21 
June 2022 onwards, but that the settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence because it was clear hed gone ahead without conducting proper checks. She 
also noted he had been told on more than one occasion that he wouldnt be asked to pay 
more funds, but he continued making further payments each time he was asked.
Finally, our investigator said Mr R wasnt entitled to any compensation because the upset 
was caused by the scammers, and she hadnt seen any errors or delays in Nationwides 
investigation. And he wasnt entitled to compensation for legal fees, as our service is free to 
access.
Nationwide asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has argued that 
the activity on 21 June 2023 wasnt out of character with other recent activity on the account 
because between 13 June 2021 and 17 June 2021, the transactions were predominantly for 
£4,500. And as it had already discussed similar payments with him and had been assured 
there was no third party involvement, there was no reason to intervene again. It has also 
said that between 7 February 2022 and 21 June 2022, there were only three payments 
which didnt involve cryptocurrency, so there was no change in the operation of the account, 
and it had already provided information for Mr R to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr R says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances, but the CRM code didnt apply in this case because 
the payments were to an account in Mr Rs own name.
Im satisfied Mr R authorised the payments for the purposes of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
It's not in dispute that this was a scam, but although Mr R didnt intend his money to go to 
scammers, he did authorise the disputed payments. Nationwide is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Nationwide could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Nationwide ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments 
were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn 
Mr R when he tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on 
an account, Id expect Nationwide to intervene with a view of protecting Mr R from financial 
harm due to fraud. 
Ive listened to Mr Rs calls with Nationwide on 25 May 2022, 26 May 2022, 30 May 2022, 
and 13 June 2022. During those calls, he was open in his responses to the questions he was asked. He explained he was investing in cryptocurrency, there wasnt a third party involved 
and he was keen for the payments to be approved. Based on what took place during these 
calls, even though I think payments 2 to 13 were unusual for the account, I dont think it 
would have made any difference if Nationwide had intervened again during that period. This 
is because, Mr R genuinely believed he was dealing with C, so there was no way Nationwide 
could have reasonably uncovered the scam.
After the call on 13 June 2022, Mr R made a further 40 payments to the scam totalling 
£170,900 without any intervention from Nationwide. It has said it had already discussed 
similar payments with him and had been assured of no third party involvement, so there was 
no reason for it to intervene again. 
While I accept £4,500 became an established payment amount, Mr R was paying out a large 
amount of money to a cryptocurrency merchant. And he was suddenly making payments 
exclusively for cryptocurrency. So, even though Nationwide had previously spoken to him 
about similar payments, it should reasonably have contacted him again to ask why he was 
making multiple daily payments for the same amount over such a long period of time. This 
wasnt the way he normally used the account and the repeated payments suggested he was 
under pressure to make payments. Therefore, even though C was no longer a new payee, 
and the amounts were the same as other payments Mr R had recently made, I think it should 
have contacted him again to ask him why he was using his account in this way.
Had it done so, while he still believed he was dealing with C, I think Mr R would have 
discussed with the call handler the fact he was being required to make further payments to 
earn double rewards and that he felt under pressure to avoid losing the profits hed made. I 
also think its likely hed have mentioned the fact he was making payments in response to a 
pop-up message hed received in Cs app, and that he had been encouraged to join a mining 
pool to gain access to additional profits. Had this conversation taken place, I think it would 
have uncovered the scam.
The call handler could then have provided a tailored scam warning and warned Mr R that 
there were red flags present. I havent seen any evidence that he was keen to take risks, so I 
think hed have listened to the advice and contacted C to verify the content of the pop-up 
hed received in its app, and ultimately chosen not to make any further payments.  
Because of this Im satisfied that Nationwide failed to intervene in circumstances which might 
have prevented Mr Rs loss and so it should refund the money Mr R lost from payment 17 
onwards.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence. I accept Mr R didnt consider that there was a third party 
involved and that the trading platform through the fraudulent link looked the same as it did 
when he had been using the genuine platform. But I havent seen any evidence that he did 
reasonable due diligence.
Its clear Mr R began to have doubts when he was asked to make further deposits on 18 
June 2022 that he didnt plan or expect to make. When he was told he would have to make 
these payments, he should reasonably have raised concerns with C about what he was 
being asked to do. And had he done so, its likely the scam would have come to light. So, I 
agree the settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence.
CompensationMr R isnt entitled to any compensation or legal costs from Nationwide because the distress 
and inconvenience Mr R suffered was caused by the scammers.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society 
should:
refund the money Mr R lost from payment 17 onwards.
this settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Nationwide Building Society deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Miss E and Mr R with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman