DRN-3607479
The complaint
Mr O complains that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) irresponsibly granted him credit 
that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Sainsburys approved a £10,000 loan for Mr O in September 2021. Mr O needed to repay 
£12,648 through 60 monthly instalments of £210.80.
Mr O said that the loan wasnt affordable for him and it was irresponsible for Sainsburys to 
have provided him with the credit.
Sainsburys disagreed. They explained that they had asked Mr O about his income and that 
they had performed a credit search when Mr O applied for his loan. They said that credit 
search didnt identify any missed payments, arrears, or defaults on Mr Os other credit 
commitments. Sainsburys explained that the debt to income ratio they reviewed was 
acceptable and they saw no reason not to approve the finance.
Our investigator didnt agree with Sainsburys and he thought the loan shouldnt have been 
advanced. Sainsburys therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I dont think Sainsburys completed reasonable and proportionate checks before they 
approved this loan.
This was quite a sizeable loan in relation to Mr Os reported income so I think Sainsburys 
should have done more to establish if the income Mr O was reporting was accurate. I also 
think they should have considered the credit that Mr O had access to. The FCA's Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) applies to all credit-related regulated activities. CONC 5.2A.27 
says a lender has to calculate affordability based on the maximum limit. It says that they 
have to make assumptions on the full amount of borrowing available. Sainsburys should 
therefore have considered the full amount of borrowing available to Mr O and that means 
they should have considered the credit limits on his revolving credit accounts.
Ive therefore thought about what Sainsburys would have found if they had completed 
proportionate checks. If Sainsburys had validated Mr Os income I think they would have 
noted hed overstated it. He was earning about £1,392 a month after tax and not the £1,995 
(£30,000 per year) he'd reported. There was about £23,500 of revolving credit on his credit 
file and Mr O could have utilised all of that at any point. Had he done so and repaid the debt 
over a reasonable period (about three years) he would have had to repay about £727 a 
month. Sainsburys calculated that his monthly expenditure would have been about £425, 
and they would have been likely to note he was also paying £418 a month towards three 
other unsecured loans. That wouldnt leave any disposable income from which Mr O could 
afford to sustainably repay the loan Sainsburys were being asked to approve. I dont 
therefore think the loan was affordable for Mr O and Sainsburys were therefore irresponsible 
to provide it.
And, even if Im wrong that Sainsburys would have seen the loan wasnt affordable for Mr O 
purely by properly assessing his credit commitments, I think the excessive revolving credit 
should have led them to consider Mr Os expenditure in more detail. They didnt have to ask 
for bank accounts but, I think thats the best way to uncover what Sainsburys would likely 
have found if they had asked for further information. Ive therefore reviewed three months of 
statements from Mr Os main bank account for the period before his application. Those show 
Mr O was spending large sums on gambling. He spent over £8,500 in June 2021 alone. I 
think that supports my assessment that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr O.
Putting things right
Sainsburys shouldnt have given Mr O the loan.
If they have sold the outstanding debt they should buy it back if they are able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If they are not able to buy the debt back then they should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Deduct the repayments Mr O made from the amount he was lent.
If this results in Mr O having paid more than he received, any overpayments
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Sainsburys should attempt to 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr O.
Once the capital has been repaid, they should remove any adverse information 
recorded on Mr Os credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to put things right in the manner Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman