DRN-4012733
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates Financial 
Services advised him to switch his pension investments into a discretionary fund managed 
(DFM) portfolio. Mr Q feels the unnecessary excessive charges werent suitable and 
werent made clear to him. In addition, he feels they failed to offer better performing funds. 
He feels hes lost out financially because of that.
Mr Q would like to be put back in the same position as if the transfer had not taken place.
What happened
In May 2015, Mr Q met with an adviser from Tavistock to review his existing Canada Life 
pension plan. At that time he was concerned about the charges and felt, as well as paying 
too much in fees, the performance wasnt where it should be. After reviewing Mr Qs 
circumstances, the adviser recommended Mr Q move his pension to Standard Life. 
Tavistock explained that would reduce his costs and, hopefully, see performance improve by 
investing in a new range of funds.
In January 2016, Mr Qs Canada Life plan was switched to Standard Life and invested in a 
range of medium risk funds that matched the attitude to risk (ATR) level the adviser had 
earlier agreed with Mr Q. 
Shortly thereafter, in May 2016, Mr Qs portfolio was reviewed, and alterations were made to 
rebalance his funds to ensure they remained aligned to his medium risk appetite. At the 
same time, Tavistock offered Mr Q the option of moving on to their Wealth Planning service 
and having his monies managed under a DFM arrangement but he declined that option 
because he wanted to keep costs down.
On 23 August 2017, Tavistock sent Mr Q a letter about his pension and the option again of 
moving on to a DFM service. The letter highlighted changing economic conditions that 
Tavistock believed may impact Mr Qs pension fund value. I will refer to this letter as the 
perfect storm letter. It gave Mr Q three options: 
i) to take no action now but wait for his next review, 
ii) switch to their Abacus Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service now, or
iii) if unsure, the opportunity to speak with one of the advisers. 
Tavistocks letter strongly recommended he select the option of moving onto their DFM 
solution. 
Mr Q decided he needed to speak to an adviser. After having a conversation with Mr Q on 6 
September 2017, Tavistock reconfirmed his ATR as medium. Shortly afterwards, he signed 
Tavistocks form to confirm he wanted to move onto their DFM solution.
As Mr Q wasnt paying to receive an ongoing advice service, he then didnt have any further 
review meetings. Mr Q then contacted Tavistock in December 2020 after seeing an article in 
the financial press. At that point, Mr Q wanted to better understand what charges he was 
paying on his pension and why the performance of his plan wasnt meeting his expectations. 
After several email exchanges between Mr Q and Tavistock in January and telephone 
discussions in February 2021, he decided to formally complain in the March.
In his complaint to Tavistock, Mr Q said, in summary:
That he felt Tavistock were scaremongering customers into switching to a more 
expensive own brand product. He didnt think their letter of August 2017 shouldve been 
sent because it was pure speculation, none of which came true.
He was unhappy that other funds were not considered by his IFA at the time. He was 
also surprised that his IFA would recommend a below benchmark fund when there were 
better options on the market.
He didnt feel the charges of the new solution were made clear by Tavistock in their letter 
to him. He felt Tavistock hid them from him.
Tavistock issued its final response letter to Mr Q on 14 June 2021, declining his complaint. 
They stated they were satisfied he was placed in a fully informed position before he switched 
to the DFM solution. They also went on to say, in summary:
They felt their August 2017 letter was sent with the best of intentions. They conceded 
that whilst none of the events referred to in the letter occurred, that didnt mean to say 
the points werent valid concerns they held.
They said the letter was designed to be sent to a wide range of other customers so they 
didnt feel it necessary to make recommendations of other alternatives. They felt if Mr Q 
wanted other options setting out to him, he shouldve asked. At which point, Tavistock 
explained there would be a cost for doing so.
Tavistock also said the costs of changing to the new alternative were covered in one of 
the enclosures that was included within the letter he was sent at the time. They also said 
the costs were included within statements Mr Q received.
They went on to say that it was unfortunate the Abacus Medium DFM had not performed 
better, however, they didnt think that made it unsuitable.
Tavistock said all their advisers are independent and can recommend other providers 
funds. They said Mr Q was provided with the option of using Tavistock to manage his 
funds and if hed wanted to, he couldve declined the offer retaining his existing funds or 
paid for further advice.
Dissatisfied, Mr Q brought his complaint to this service in July 2021. He echoed the same 
points hed raised in his complaint to Tavistock.
Tavistock told this service they believed Mr Qs case was without merit and reiterated the 
points they made in their complaint resolution letter. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that Tavistock 
had treated Mr Q fairly. She was satisfied Tavistock had been clear with Mr Q about the 
costs of the new DFM. She also said, in summary:She didnt think Mr Q had been rushed into making the decision to switch to the DFM. 
She felt that as Mr Q had spoken to Tavistock after receiving their letter and waited for 
10 days before sending the agreement to proceed form back, that was sufficient time for 
him to have reflected on the change.
She also felt there was sufficient information about the options presented to Mr Q to 
enable him to make an informed decision.
Mr Q, however, disagreed with our investigators findings. He said he felt there was an 
injustice. He also said, in summary, the following:
The documents that Tavistock and the investigator referred to, changes to how we 
manage your investment portfolio and the factsheet which included the revised costs, do 
not appear to have been provided to him.
He cant understand why, when Tavistock knew he was anti-higher costs, they would 
recommend he move from Canada Life where he was paying 1.3%, to Standard Life at 
0.78% and then onto a Tavistock DFM where hed be paying far more, 1.97%.
He said he shouldve been kept informed of the annual costs.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view. She felt shed already addressed 
the points Mr Q had raised. She also explained that she thought it more likely than not that 
the relevant paperwork was included within the letter Mr Q was sent.
Mr Q asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
planned to uphold Mr Qs complaint. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I made in full 
below.
My provisional decision
I have considered all the evidence provided and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In short, whats at the heart of this complaint is whether the letter that Tavistock sent to Mr Q 
in August 2017, which hes called the perfect storm letter, was clear, fair, and not 
misleading as is required under the regulators Principles. Mr Q doesnt think it was. Allied to 
that, the complaint is about whether their recommendation was suitable for Mr Q and his 
circumstances at the time. He says the letter scared him into taking action. He says when he 
eventually found out what the charges were that hed been paying for the DFM, it came as a 
surprise. He says the charges made the new arrangement unsuitable because he was keen 
to keep costs to a minimum, which was something Tavistock was aware of.
Up until Mr Q received Tavistocks perfect storm letter, he says hed been happy with the 
service hed had from them. Hed been a customer with them for several years. In 2015, 
Tavistock had provided retirement planning advice to him. At the time, he held a Canada Life 
pension plan that hed asked Tavistock to look at for him. After assessing his situation, 
Tavistock recommended he switch the Canada Life pension to Standard Life.
In the Suitability Report (SR) that Tavistock sent to Mr Q in December 2015, one of his 
primary objectives for looking at a pension switch was to help drive down the costs he was 
paying. The SR stated: There has been a lot of media attention focused on high pension 
charges and you are concerned that your current arrangements are expensive. The area over which you have the most influence is charges  this exercise has evaluated and 
reduced them where possible. When Mr Q held his pension with Canada Life, he paid a 
total of 1.3014% per annum in charges. By moving to Standard Life, his costs reduced to 
0.6375%.
Ive considered very carefully the perfect storm letter that Tavistock sent to Mr Q in August 
2017, along with the supporting documentation and chain of events. Their letter said:
Dear Mr Q
IMPORTANT INFORMATION
You may have seen reported in the media, that the UK inflation rate dropped last month, 
which was not what had been expected. Inflationary pressure remains high and many 
anticipate that the Bank of England will raise interest rates from their historically low level.
THE CHANGING ECONOMIC CONDITIONS ARE SET TO IMPACT THE VALUE OF YOUR 
PENSIONS & INVESTMENTS.
Whilst the investment approach that you have followed has been suitable in a low interest rate 
environment, I want to make you aware that in the event that UK Base Rates rise by 1.5%, 
funds invested in these lower risk investments could fall, we believe, by around 16.75%.
CONSEQUENTLY, I BELIEVE THAT YOU SHOULD SERIOUSLY CONSIDER MAKING 
CHANGES TO YOUR EXISTING INVESTMENTS NOW.
I do not wish to cause any alarm however I do believe market movements could be severe 
with a number of factors including inflation and wage pressures, creating a perfect storm 
leading to higher interest rates and the consequent effect on sterling and investment values.  
I therefore feel it is my obligation to bring these concerns to your attention so that you can 
consider the potential impact on your own financial position and would urge you to act and if 
required to review your existing portfolio as soon as possible.
With the above in mind, Abacus believe that overseas investments would be better positioned 
investing in a way that hedges out this currency risk, i.e. you receive the return on the stock 
market you are invested into not a return in part dependent upon whether the pound does well 
or not.
We have considered all options available to our 13,000 customers and the £650M we 
manage for them for you and we are strongly recommending a change to the Abacus 
Discretionary Fund Management Service (DFM). 
This is a unique offering in our industry as it offers daily 24/7 portfolio monitoring/rebalancing, 
the mitigation of currency risk (by hedging) and institutional quality portfolios for our retail 
clients. For this we are working in partnership with Tavistock Wealth DFM who use the 
BlackRock ALADDIN risk management software to manage $17 trillion of client portfolio 
assets across 33,000 portfolios.
This is the most advanced risk management system in existence and used by Governments 
and large corporations. For example - the US government pay BlackRock $40M per annum to 
use it to manage their own assets. It is typically only available to individual investors with 
£10M+ to invest.
The attached documents explain in further detail the reasons behind the changes and how we 
feel they may benefit you. 
There are 3 options available to you:-1. If you do not wish to make any changes at this time and would prefer to wait until 
your next scheduled review, then please select option 1 on the enclosed form, sign 
and return it in the pre-paid envelope provided.
2. If you wish to proceed with the suggested changes to your investments, then 
please select option 2 on the enclosed form, sign the enclosed TWL Client Terms & 
Abacus Client Agreement and return these in the pre-paid envelope provided.
3. If you are unsure and would like to discuss this further then please select option 3 
on the enclosed forms, sign and return it in the envelope provided.
Alternatively, if you would like to discuss this, then please do feel free to call me on my mobile
(Note  the bold text/ emphasis in the letter was in the original and not added by this 
service).
Was Mr Q provided with advice?
I think the starting point is to determine whether the letter Tavistock sent to Mr Q was merely 
information or whether they strayed into providing advice; the latter thereby requiring them to 
take a higher level of care and demonstrate any alterations they were making were 
appropriate and suitable for Mr Q. At this point, I think its also important to be clear about 
the Regulators position on the difference between providing information, and going beyond 
that stage at which point it becomes advice. 
The FCA set out in its Perimeter Guidance manual (PERG) some guidance on what could 
amount to advice. I think the following provisions are relevant: 
PERG 8.28.1(G) 
In the FCAs view, advice requires an element of opinion on the part of the adviser. 
In effect it is a recommendation as to a course of action. Information, on the other 
hand, involves statements of facts or figures.
PERG 8.28.2(G) 
(1) In general terms, simply giving information without making any comment or value 
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make is not advice. 
(2) The provision of purely factual information does not become regulated advice 
merely because it feeds into the customers own decision-making process and is 
taken into account by them. 
(3) Regulated advice includes any communication with the customer which, in the 
particular context in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information 
and is objectively likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or 
sell. 
(4)  A key to the giving of advice is that the information: 
(a) is either accompanied by comment or value judgment on the relevance of 
that information to the customers investment decision; or 
(b) is itself the product of a process of selection involving a value judgment so 
that the information will tend to influence the decision.PERG 8.28.5(G) 
A key question is whether an impartial observer, having due regard to the regulatory 
regime and guidance, context, timing and what passed between the parties, would 
conclude that what the adviser says could reasonably have been understood by the 
customer as being advice. 
PERG 8.28.6(G) 
An explicit recommendation to buy or sell is likely to be advice. However something 
falling short of an explicit recommendation can be advice too. Any significant element 
of evaluation, value judgment or persuasion is likely to mean that advice is being 
given. 
Looking closely at the language Tavistock used, Im satisfied their letter amounted to a 
recommendation to Mr Q. I say that because its clear to me phrases such as strongly 
recommending a change, would urge you to act, you should seriously consider making 
changes and Abacus believe that overseas investments would be better positioned 
investing in a way that hedges out this currency risk are unambiguous in what theyre 
stating and would leave little doubt in a consumers mind that keeping the status quo was not 
in their best interests. Allied to that, the letter referred back to Mr Qs existing arrangements 
and ATR. That I believe created the impression a judgement had been passed on his 
particular personal situation. Finally, the letter was also sent by the consumers own adviser 
rather than from an unknown individual.
In addition, Tavistock undertook a telephone call and an ATR assessment ahead of the 
switch. I asked Tavistock for a copy of the telephone call recording between themselves and 
Mr Q from August 2017. Tavistock explained to this service in December 2022 they dont 
have a copy of the recording. 
Whilst we may not know what was specifically discussed during the call, on the balance of 
probabilities, I believe its safe to conclude Mr Q would have thought Tavistock was 
endorsing what he was doing and therefore, that Mr Q would have considered this as advice. 
I also think the business would have known that hed have considered it as such too. 
I dont believe theres any doubt the chain of events meets the regulators threshold on the 
definition of advice having been provided.
As advice was provided, was it suitable for Mr Q?
Im satisfied Tavistock went beyond the mere provision of information to Mr Q. Having 
decided that Tavistocks adviser gave advice, under the Regulators COBS rules, Tavistock 
had a duty to demonstrate the recommendation was suitable for him which Im not 
persuaded they did.
Moving to a bespoke managed solution will tend to cost customers more, as is the case 
here. The end result was Mr Q was actually paying 1.97% for the new DFM solution, that 
was more than his Canada Life plan (that was 1.3%) that he originally asked Tavistock to 
help him reduce the charges on. So, I think it shouldve been clear to Tavistock that given Mr 
Qs previous conversations with them, that would be something hed wish to avoid, 
particularly when according to Mr Q (in his words), he was anti-higher costs.
The DFM would need to come with some additional benefits that Mr Q would find useful to 
make up for the higher costs, otherwise there would be little merit in moving. But it doesnt 
seem to me the DFM did have additional benefits that Mr Q would have found useful. Additional costs may be justified by better performance. And whilst Tavistock may have 
believed better performance would have followed, this was by no means guaranteed and 
similar performance could have been achieved through other (cheaper) means anyway.
I can think of no plausible reason why Mr Q would benefit from having his monies managed 
on a bespoke basis, particularly when considering the size of his fund and his plans to phase 
down into retirement within the next 4 or so years combined with the increased drag the 
higher charges would have on it. 
In their complaint resolution letter to Mr Q, Tavistock explained that given theyd contacted 
him in May 2016 offering the same DFM service, he mustve known the recommendation in 
2017 would come at an increased premium. Theyve said that because Mr Q rejected the 
same opportunity in May 2016 due to the higher costs involved. However, Im not convinced 
its as simple as that. Ive looked closely at how both communications were positioned with 
Mr Q. In their email to him in May 2016, the option to invest in the DFM was framed very 
differently to their subsequent message in August 2017. When positioning the option to 
change to a DFM in 2016, Tavistock opened their message by saying, We are now able to 
improve our service for you with regard to your model portfolios with Standard Life. That 
communication didnt make a positive recommendation to move, whereas the latter one did. 
Rather than include a comparison of the DFM charges in the perfect storm letter, Tavistock 
says they included them as a separate addendum. Tavistock said their charges were made 
clear to Mr Q in the Changes to how we manage your investment portfolio enclosure that 
was included with the pack they posted him. Mr Q has said he never received that additional 
information. However, I dont believe I need to make a finding on whether Mr Q received the 
charges addendum or not. Thats because, even if he had been told about the costs and 
been given time to reflect, I dont think that would matter because it wouldnt have made the 
advice suitable.
Finally, given Mr Qs relatively short investment horizon, I fail to be convinced that having the 
benefit of a regularly rebalanced portfolio would be enough to make up for the additional 
costs Tavistock were charging. Thats because he was unlikely to achieve the returns 
necessary to make up the extra costs. Ive seen no evidence that Tavistock undertook any 
detailed analysis to understand what level of outperformance the new solution would require 
to at least match his existing arrangement. When Tavistock wrote to Mr Q in 2017, he was 
invested in their advisory solution. That meant any alterations Tavistock wanted to make 
needed his permission before changes could be made. Following their recommendation, he 
was paying higher charges for something that wasnt much different than he had before 
given he was already in their medium risk portfolio which doesnt appear that different to the 
medium risk DFM. The only exception being on the DFM, Tavistock no longer needed to 
check in with Mr Q to make changes to the underlying funds.
Importantly, Tavistock never considered wider more suitable alternatives and they failed to 
demonstrate specifically why the recommendation was suitable for Mr Q.
Was Tavistocks perfect storm letter clear, fair and not misleading?
Im of the view Tavistocks letter is problematic, and for a number of reasons. The letter isnt 
balanced and clearly caused alarm to Mr Q. It explains Mr Qs pension will most likely fall, 
such movements could be severe and they need to take immediate action to avert that. Their 
letter was framed in a way that such a fall was inevitable unless Mr Q changed his 
investments. Whilst Tavistock explained in their resolution letter they genuinely held that 
belief, Im not convinced Mr Q needed to take out a DFM to avert that course of action. A 
DFM isnt right for many investors (and certainly from what Ive seen, not for Mr Q) because 
of the extra charges. Particularly when the ability to protect against the market moves the business is worried about can be achieved through other means. The overall sense is of a 
business attempting to push a solution following a change of ownership
I say that because Tavistock justified making changes to Mr Qs investments because of 
their own increased costs. In the Changes to how we manage your investment portfolio 
attachment, they said that Mr Qs current Advisory arrangement was becoming too 
expensive for them to run. They said Furthermore, the cost for us to continue to run the 
portfolio on the current basis is increasing and could become prohibitive, hence the reason 
for us proposing to improve the way this service is provided. Tavistock say that after a 
review of a number of providers, their assessment determined Mr Q should invest his 
monies with Tavistock, who had just purchased their business the year before. So, it seems 
to me the recommendation doesnt appear to have been entirely about what was best for the 
consumer. 
Tavistocks paperwork implies Mr Qs pension could only really be run efficiently as a DFM. 
Whilst that may be the case for Tavistock, other providers are able to provide standard 
pooled funds with a regular check-in with their adviser. This isnt an avenue Tavistock 
appears to have explored, which I think is pertinent, given the size of his fund and stated 
aims at the time. Theyve pushed a single solution, misleading Mr Q into believing the only 
course of action he can take to avoid the impending market crash is via a DFM. 
Consequently, I believe Tavistock breached the regulators PRIN7 rule by providing a 
communication that was misleading.
Summary
I think had Mr Q been provided with all the facts in a balanced way, he would have either 
stayed where he was or opted for a cheaper alternative. I say that because within the email 
chain Abacus sent him in May 2016, it was clear at the time Mr Q saw little benefit in paying 
higher charges. He was very much focused on low-cost solutions, having recently 
transferred from a higher charging Canada Life plan only 5 months earlier. In addition, Ive 
seen nothing to persuade me the recommendation was suitable for Mr Qs circumstances at 
the time.
It was Tavistock that promoted the concept of investing in a DFM. I remain to be convinced 
that he was presented with all the key information necessary to make a balanced judgement 
on whether the investment was right for him. I also dont think Tavistock have demonstrated 
clearly enough why the change was suitable and met his ongoing needs and objectives. 
Whilst I accept Tavistock may have preferred to switch its clients off their advisory 
arrangements given the increased cost challenges, for clients such as Mr Q who only had a 
relatively modest fund, a straight-forward off the shelf, low cost managed or tracker fund 
would more than likely have sufficed. 
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision both Tavistock and Mr Q contacted this service 
explaining they agreed with the outcome and had no further comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both Tavistock and Mr Q agreed with my provisional decision and explained they had 
nothing further to add, it therefore follows that I uphold Mr Qs complaint for the reasons set 
out above.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr Q should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had he not switched to a DFM portfolio.
I think Mr Q would have remained in his previous investments, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous funds would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr Q's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Tavistock do?
To compensate Mr Q fairly, Tavistock must:
Compare the performance of Mr Q's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained within the same funds. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, 
no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Tavistock should pay into Mr Q's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Tavistock is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Q's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr Q 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Q's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Mr Q has confirmed he is a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so 
the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr Q would have been able to take a tax-
free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in 
an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tavistock deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr Q how much has been taken off. Tavistock should give Mr Q a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr Q asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestStandard 
Life / 
Tavistock 
DFM 
portfolioStill exists 
and liquidNotional value 
of previous 
Advisory fundsDate of 
switch to 
DFMDate of my 
final 
decision 8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional value
This is the value of Mr Q's investment had it remained within the original advisory funds 
until the end date. Tavistock should calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Standard Life SIPP should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Tavistock totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If Tavistock is unable to calculate a notional value, they will need to determine a fair value 
for Mr Q's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value 
using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr Q wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If Tavistock is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the measure 
below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Qs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr Q into that position. It does not mean that Mr Q would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr Q could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited trading as Abacus Associates 
Financial Services should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman