DRN-4324237
The complaint
Mr K complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset Link Capital (No.9) 
lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr K was approved for three loans with Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Asset 
Link Capital (No.9) (Asset Link). The purpose of these loans was to support Mr K while he 
was completing his educational studies. The details of the loans are as follows:
Loan 1 taken out in May 2019 for £2,000. Payments due were 20 monthly in-study 
repayments of £20 and 84 monthly out of study repayments of £43.35.
Loan 2 taken out in December 2019 for £2,000. Payments due were 13 monthly       
in-study repayments of £35 and 84 monthly out of study repayments of £36.59.
Loan 3 taken out in March 2020 for £7,000. Payments due were 10 monthly in-study 
repayments of £5 and 84 monthly out of study repayments of £171.08.
Mr K complained to Asset Link saying theyd lent to him irresponsibly which led him to 
borrow from other companies and from friends and family to get through month to month. 
Asset Link didnt agree although they offered to cap Mr Ks liability on loans two and three to 
the capital amounts of £2,000 and £7,000. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt the checks Asset Link carried out before 
deciding to lend were proportionate for each loan. And he felt that Asset Link took 
reasonable steps to ensure the payments were affordable once Mr Ks in-study periods 
ended. 
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. 
Bearing in mind the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, I think that there 
are two key questions for me to think about while looking at Mr Ks complaint. 
These are: 
1. Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Mr K would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
a) If so, did they make a fair lending decision? 
b) If not, would those checks have shown that Mr K wouldve been able to do so? 
2. Did Asset Link complete a review of Mr Ks circumstances once the in-study periods had 
ended? 
Did Asset Link complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves Mr K 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? 
Before I go on to consider the checks Asset Link carried out, Ive considered what they have 
said about their operating model and profile of their borrowers. Asset Link has explained that 
they offer loans to individuals who are funding their further education. They say their 
approach to lending meets the relevant regulatory guidelines. 
The main difference between Asset Links lending here and that typically provided by other 
lenders is that they completed creditworthiness assessments based on the projected future 
earnings or income of the applicant. In respect of this complaint, Asset Link has explained 
their assessment model is based on using information from credit reference agencies, 
employment information and statistics associated with the course Mr K undertook, the further 
education institution he attended and his intended career post-graduation. And they say they 
assessed whether Mr K would be able to afford smaller repayments during the period in 
which he would be in education and the full, post-graduation repayments using his data and 
independent data to calculate Mr Ks projected income and projected debt upon graduation.
Asset Link needed to take reasonable steps to ensure they didnt lend irresponsibly to Mr K. 
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Asset Link lent required them to 
carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Mr Ks 
ability to sustainably repay the loans over their intended terms without causing him financial 
difficulties. 
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as their circumstances. And it isnt sufficient for Asset Link to just complete proportionate 
checks  they must also consider the information they obtained from these checks to make a 
fair lending decision. This includes, for example, not lending to someone whos already 
struggling to repay what they owe; and ensuring repayments can be made sustainably  in 
other words without having to borrow further or experiencing undue difficulty. 
Asset Link was entitled to rely on expected future income for Mr K when making this 
assessment. Provided that this assessment was appropriate (bearing in mind what CONC 
required in terms of proportionality) and there was an appropriate exercise of forbearance in 
relation to any initial payments.
Asset Link says they completed proportionate checks for the three loans. They say they 
completed a credit search on Mr K before approving each loan. Ive had a look at the data 
Asset Link has sent for each application. This told them that Mr K didnt have any existing 
debt he was servicing each month. Im unsure whether Mr K did have ongoing credit 
commitments at the time each loan was granted. However, Asset Link was entitled to rely on 
the information they gathered at the time. I cant see that they were aware of any conflicting 
information which demonstrated they could not rely on the information they had been 
presented with. 
Asset Link then went on to calculate Mr Ks future expected income on each occasion. Ive 
looked at the data they gathered for this. It shows that based on the information they had at the time, Mr K would be earning a yearly salary of approximately £20,559 post-tax. Asset 
Link also calculated Mr Ks expected outgoings, including his increased payments for the 
loans; and deemed that Mr K would have sufficient disposable income to meet this 
sustainably. They say based on these checks the loans appeared affordable.
Ive considered Asset Links arguments, and in this instance, I agree with them. Im mindful 
that the amounts borrowed by Mr K, while not insignificant, werent for an especially large 
amount. This meant that the in study and out of study repayments remained relatively low. 
Therefore, the checks that Asset Link had to do needed to be proportionate to these 
amounts. As such Im satisfied proportionate checks in this instance wouldve included 
obtaining a reasonable understanding of Mr Ks circumstances.
As set out above Asset Link checked Mr Ks credit file; and used this information to help 
inform their calculations. And they considered Mr Ks likely future income. Asset Link has 
provided a number of detailed materials in relation to their business model to our service 
previously as well as on this case. Ive taken this information into account when considering 
the reasonableness of Asset Links predictions. For the sake of clarity Asset Link says they 
use information from third parties (including the educational institutions which have been 
applied for) to gather the likely salary. They say they use this information as well as known 
credit commitments to conduct their future affordability assessments. 
Ive considered this information, and, in this instance, Im satisfied their prediction of Mr Ks 
affordability was proportionate. Here, based on Mr Ks university and field of study, they 
predicted his likely income after graduation to be around £20,559 per year. This would give 
Mr K an average monthly income of around £1,500 per month. Considering what Asset Link 
has said about Mr Ks course, which was for a bachelors in accountancy, this figure seems 
reasonable. It may be different if the salary predicted was unreasonably high, but Im 
satisfied that a salary of £20,559 per year wasnt out of kilter with other graduate starting 
salaries, and therefore Im satisfied it was reasonable for Asset Link to rely on it.
Asset Links calculations for Mr Ks future outgoings on each occasion also appears 
reasonable. They took into account Mr Ks estimated expenses and factored in the increased 
out of study repayments. While this calculation is by no means fool proof it does take into 
consideration a reasonable estimation of the commitments that Mr K likely would have had. 
And again, considering the relatively low value of the loans and repayments Im satisfied it 
was proportionate in this instance. In addition to the above, I also note that the loans were 
being used to help Mr K with his living expenses whilst he was studying. Asset Link was 
entitled to take this into account when considering any expenses he had during the period he 
was studying. 
So based on this, Im satisfied that Asset Link completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks before approving the loans. And Im satisfied they made a fair decision to lend on 
each occasion. The information which Asset Link gathered at the time showed that Mr K 
would likely be able to afford the repayments during and after his studies had been 
completed. They had a reasonable prediction of what his future income and outgoings would 
be, and these demonstrated the loans were likely affordable. Asset Link was entitled to rely 
on the information which Mr K provided to them, and there doesnt appear to be any 
contradictory information which suggested they shouldnt. So, Im satisfied they made a fair 
decision to lend for each application.
Did Asset Link complete a review of Mr Ks circumstances once the in-study periods had 
ended? 
As the bulk of the repayments on the loans were always going to be made once Mr K 
completed his course and Asset Link could only estimate what his circumstances would be like at this time, they were required to ensure that once the out of study period had begun, 
Mr K was able to meet the increased monthly repayments. 
The out of study repayments increased across all three loans to a total of around £250. I 
havent seen evidence that Asset Link contacted Mr K prior to the increase in his 
repayments. So, I dont think Asset Link completed a sufficient review of Mr Ks 
circumstances once the repayments increased. As this review was not done, Ive based my 
decision on what information wouldve likely shown at the time. 
Mr K has told us that his income was around £700 a month, after tax, at this point, although 
this varied as he was on a zero-hours contract. This is significantly lower than the predictions 
relied upon by Asset Link. I have though seen evidence that Asset Link tried to help Mr K 
when he informed them that he was struggling. They put a hold on collections and on 
applying interest to give Mr K a chance to liaise with a third-party debt advisory service who 
were assessing what he could pay each month. Asset Link also accepted the repayment 
plan once it was received by them. 
Im satisfied overall that, even though Asset Link didnt carry out a review into Mr Ks ability 
to make the out of study payments for each loan, and should have, they acted reasonably 
and with forbearance once they were aware of Mr Ks difficulties. I note also that Asset Link 
has offered to cap Mr Ks liability on the second and third loans to the capital sum only which 
doesnt feel unfair. I gather that offer is still open for Mr K to accept and, if he wishes to do 
so, he should contact Asset Link about this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman