DRN-4045305
The complaint
Mr P complains about BMW Financial Services (GB) Limiteds (who Ill call BMWFS) 
decision to terminate a finance agreement he had with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I dont think BMWFS have been unreasonable. Ill explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Mr Ps finance agreement with BMWFS started in October 2019. A six month payment 
holiday was agreed but when that ended, and when sufficient payments werent made, 
BMWFS terminated Mr Ps contract in July 2022.
The terms of the finance agreement gave BMWFS the right to terminate the agreement if 
payments werent kept up to date. The relevant terms are set out in section 6 and 7 of the 
agreement.
Whilst its clear there have been some communication difficulties here, which are 
understandable given the impact of the governments lockdown measures during this period, 
I still think sufficient information was provided to Mr P to enable him to understand the scale 
of the arrears on his account, the need for payment, and the implications of not paying.
I say that because:
BMWFS have provided copies of the statements, notices of sums in arrears, and the 
default letter they sent to Mr P at the address(es) they had for him at the time. It was 
Mr Ps responsibility to update that address. I think its likely he would have received 
most of these letters and the account position would have been very clear to him 
despite the communication problems he experienced. And, even if Mr P hadnt 
received some of those letters I think it would have been clear he was in arrears on 
the account and needed to take some action.
Mr P was informed that payments would resume after the payment holiday, but he 
didnt reinstate his direct debit. I think it was his responsibility to do so.
Mr P promised to get in touch with BMWFS to arrange a payment plan in March 2021 
but didnt. The same thing happened in March 2022.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence that Mr P returned BMWFSs contact in the months 
preceding the termination.
I dont therefore think BMWFS were unreasonable to terminate Mr Ps contract and Im not 
asking them to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman