DRN-4099828
The complaint
Mr H complains that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) turned down his claim on his
executive home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a buildings and contents home insurance policy online with One Insurance in
January 2020. The policy included basic home emergency insurance cover.
Mr H added to his home insurance cover by taking out an additional executive home
emergency insurance policy, which had enhanced benefits. He paid an additional premium 
for the policy of £49.99. Mr H renewed his home insurance policy in January 2021 and it 
again included the executive home emergency insurance cover for the same annual 
premium.
In November 2021, Mr H contacted One Insurance because he had no heating or hot water.
One Insurance sent an engineer out to Mr Hs home. Mr H says the engineer said he wasnt 
trained on Mr Hs type of boiler (which was powered by an air source heat pump), so he 
couldnt fix Mr Hs heating and hot water system. One Insurance subsequently turned down 
Mr Hs claim because it said his policy excluded electricity.
Unhappy about this, Mr H complained to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Hs complaint 
didnt uphold it. He said Mr Hs boiler was an electric heat pump boiler and not a gas one. 
Because Mr Hs policy said electricity was excluded from cover, our investigator didnt think 
One Insurance had applied the terms unfairly when it turned down Mr Hs claim.
Mr H disagreed. He said he bought the additional home emergency insurance cover 
because the policy said One Insurance would provide emergency repairs if the main source 
of heating in his home failed. Mr H said there was nothing in the policy to say his type of 
heating source wouldnt be covered. He said his heat pump wasnt an electric boiler, as our 
investigator suggested. So he didnt think it was right One Insurance had relied on the policy 
exclusion for electricity to turn down his claim. He said this resulted in him having to pay 
around £9,000 to have the heat pump replaced. Mr H said he would like compensation for 
his outlay.
So Mr Hs complaint came to me to decide. In my provisional decision of 29 March 2023, I 
explained why I intended to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H has given me some comments 
on my decision. One Insurance hasnt responded to it. So Mr Hs complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold     
Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said in that decision:
Mr Hs executive home emergency policy says he has cover of up to £750 for (among other
things):
Boilers  emergency repairs after an emergency involving your home that leads to the main
source of heating failing.
The policy doesnt define Boilers. But it does include an exclusion that says simply
Electricity. One Insurance says Mr Hs air source heat pump is caught by the electricity
exclusion, which it has relied on to turn down his claim.
This is an argument with which Mr H strongly disagrees. He says an air source heat pump,
while powered by electricity (as a gas or electric boiler is), moves heat from one place to
another and isnt either electrical equipment or, as our investigator suggested, an electric
boiler.
Mr Hs policy gave him cover for emergency repairs after an emergency in his home that led
to his main source of heating failing. And it was because his heating and hot water failed that
Mr H made his claim. From the policy wording, however, its not clear to me whether or not
Mr Hs air source heat pump was a boiler  as Ive said, the term isnt defined. And its
equally unclear whether an exclusion that simply says Electricity means that repairs to an
air source heat pump arent covered.
It's our approach  and our approach mirrors the law  that if any term in an insurance
contract isnt clear, it should be interpreted in favour of the policyholder.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think One Insurance made it clear in Mr Hs policy
documents that his air source heat pump wasnt covered by his executive home emergency
insurance policy. And that means I dont think One Insurance has treated Mr H fairly in
turning down his claim.
When One Insurance did turn down Mr Hs claim, I understand Mr H had difficulty sourcing
another repairer locally. And then I believe the manufacturer told Mr H thered be a three to
five month wait for a part that might resolve the fault with his pump. Mr H says his only
option in these circumstances was to get the pump replaced which cost him £9,000. But the
limit on cover in Mr Hs home emergency insurance policy was £750. So thats the most he
could claim under it. In the circumstances of this complaint, therefore, I think its fair and
reasonable to direct One Insurance to pay Mr H £750 in settlement of his claim.
Its clear to me Mr H experienced significant distress and inconvenience because of One
Insurances decision to turn down his claim. He says he and his family  which included
small children and an elderly parent with a health condition  were left without heating over
the Christmas and New Year period. This mustve been distressing and worrying for Mr H. 
He also went to considerable trouble trying (and failing) to find alternative repairers at what
wouldve been a very busy time of year. For this distress and inconvenience, I intend to
direct One Insurance to pay Mr H £300 in compensation.
I know Mr H has concerns that the turning down of his claim by One Insurance has wider
implications, given the UK governments policies for achieving net zero carbon emissions by
2050. But my role is to decide Mr Hs specific complaint based on its facts and
circumstances, so I cant comment on Mr Hs concerns about these wider issues.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr H has given me some comments on my decision, while One 
Insurance hasnt responded to it. Mr H says his only source of heating was through his boiler 
and he still had power to his boiler when his heating failed. Mr H says that after One Insurance turned down his claim he was forced to speak to the manufacturer, who advised 
there was a fault with the heat exchanger. And Mr H says he was told by other engineers he 
contacted that hed have to wait two weeks at the earliest for a callout. Mr H says, because it 
was extremely cold and he had an elderly relative with a health condition living with him, as 
well as small grandchildren to look after, he had no choice but to buy a new boiler.
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr H clearly experienced significant distress and 
inconvenience because of One Insurances decision to turn down his claim. Thats why I said 
I thought an award of £300 in compensation for this was fair and reasonable. 
But while I can see why Mr H bought a new boiler, the limit on cover under his policy was 
£750. So thats the most One Insurance was under an obligation to pay him under his 
contract of insurance had he been able to make a successful claim. In the circumstances of 
this complaint, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct One Insurance to pay   
Mr H the £9,000 he says he paid to buy a new boiler.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given here and in my provisional decision (which now form part of this 
final decision), I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct One Insurance Limited to pay him:
£750 to settle Mr Hs claim on his executive home emergency insurance policy; and
£300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience turning down Mr Hs claim 
has caused him.
One Insurance Limited must pay Mr H these amounts within 28 days of the date we tell it   
Mr H has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, One Insurance Limited must pay Mr H 
simple interest on these amounts at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my final decision 
to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman