DRN-3447281
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to process her direct debit payment 
correctly for three consecutive months and this was unfairly recorded on her credit file.
Ms H would like Barclays to correct her credit file, and to increase its offer to compensate 
her the upset and inconvenience this matter has caused her.
What happened
Ms H has a mortgage with Barclays. Ms H experienced financial difficulties during the 
coronavirus pandemic due to the nature of her work. She arranged a six month mortgage 
payment deferral which ended in September 2020. 
Repayments were due to restart on Ms Hs mortgage in early November 2020. However, 
there were problems when her direct debit was reinstated. Ms Hs direct debit payment was 
returned for the next three months in error despite her having enough money in her current 
account. 
In January 2021 Ms Hs direct debit was automatically cancelled after three consecutive 
months of the mortgage repayment being returned. 
Ms H complained to Barclays. On 26 February 2021 Barclays gave a final response 
upholding Ms Hs complaint. Barclays said it had been responsible for problems with Ms Hs 
direct debit not being processed correctly. As a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to cover the 
interest that had accrued on the mortgage from November 2020 to January 2021 totalling 
around £810. And Barclays offered Ms H £350 for the frustration and distress caused and 
the time it had taken her to get the matter resolved. 
At the time of its final response, Barclays wouldnt agree to correct Ms Hs credit file. It said 
Ms H had had other options to make her mortgage payments, such as over the phone or 
online, and as such it wouldnt correct the credit file for the arrears that had been recorded. 
Ms H was unhappy with Barclays response and referred her complaint to us. Ms H wanted 
Barclays to cleanse her credit file for the three missed repayments and wanted Barclays to 
cover the interest applied to the mortgage for two further months in February and March 
2021 as she said this had continued to be a problem for her. 
While this complaint has been with us Barclays agreed to amend Ms Hs credit file, removing 
the record of missed payments from November 2020 to February 2021 to cover the period 
where there were problems collecting the direct debit. 
Ms H still felt that the compensation offered was inadequate. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened. Her view was that Barclays had done enough to put things right.
Ms H disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look again at the matter. This case has now 
been passed to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms H has been upset by the problems making her mortgage 
repayments following the end of the six-month payment deferral.  Its clear from Ms Hs 
submissions that the coronavirus pandemic seriously impacted her ability to work, and Im 
sorry to hear of how difficult things have been for her. 
Ive thought carefully about the specific circumstances of this complaint and what I consider 
Barclays should reasonably be expected to do to sort this matter out. Barclays cant fairly be 
expected to compensate Ms H for all the issues shes experienced as a result of the 
pandemic. However, it should correct mistakes it has made, putting Ms H back in the 
position she would have been in but for the mistakes. And it should pay fair compensation to 
Ms H for the suffering and inconvenience it has caused her by its actions.
Barclays has accepted that it was responsible for the problems with Ms Hs direct debit being 
called in the months of November, December and January 2021. Ms H had taken the 
necessary steps to make sure her mortgage repayments were to be made, and yet her 
mortgage fell into three months of arrears. Its clear that Ms H tried to sort matters out by 
calling Barclays and visiting a local branch and yet the problems kept happening. 
I can see why Ms H was particularly frustrated that Barclays had previously taken the 
position that it wouldnt correct how this matter was reported on her credit file; even though 
shed explained that this would impact her ability to access credit to support her business 
going forward.
Barclays initially offered to waive all interest applied to this mortgage for three months to 
compensate Ms H for its failings. It also offered £350 for the trouble and upset caused to Ms 
H. Ms H is also disappointed that the payment of £350 still hasnt yet been made.
Im pleased to see that Barclays has also now agreed to correct Ms Hs credit file for the 
missed mortgage payments in November, December and January 2021. This seems 
reasonable to me when taking into consideration that it was due to bank error, and not any 
wrongdoing by Ms H, that these mortgage repayments werent made in full and on time. 
Barclays has also offered to cover the interest that accrued on the mortgage during the 
period that there was a problem with the direct debit payments. This interest cost amounts to 
around £810 for these three months. I think that also seems fair to reflect the issues that this 
matter created for Ms H during this period. 
Ms H has said that she would also like a further two months of interest to be covered by 
Barclays as she continued to have problems sorting out the mortgage in February and 
March 2021. Having thought carefully about this point, I dont think it would be reasonable to 
ask Barclays to refund further months of interest. There are a couple of reasons why I say 
this. 
First, Barclays was entitled to continue to charge interest on the mortgage balance each 
month. I dont think it was unfair that Barclays continued to apply interest to the mortgage 
even though there was an issue with direct debit payments. 
Barclays has chosen to cover the cost of Ms Hs mortgage interest for three months in 
recognition of its wider service failings in this complaint. Its offered this as part of a wider 
settlement to resolve this complaint, rather than because it had acted unfairly in charging interest as per the mortgage contract. I dont think it follows that it should continue to refund 
subsequent months of interest because it had made this previous offer. 
In any event, Im satisfied that from January there were different ways for Ms H to catch up 
with her mortgage arrears and to set up a different way of regularly making her mortgage 
repayments. For example, Barclays has shared notes of phone calls held with Ms H over the 
course of this complaint. The call history shows that in January Barclays had offered to take 
a payment by card during a telephone call, although Ms H didnt want to do this. In late 
January 2021, a letter was sent to Ms H saying that the direct debit had been cancelled and 
that a new mandate needed to be completed so further payments could be made by this 
means. 
In all the wider circumstances of this complaint, I think Barclays had done enough by this 
point to make it clear how Ms H could take steps to prevent further issues from the end of 
January 2021. And so, I consider that Barclays has acted reasonably by not agreeing to 
extend its offer of compensation for subsequent months.    
I understand that Ms H resolved the issue by setting up a standing order in a local branch 
and that shes continued to make her mortgage repayments in this way since. Ms H has 
explained to us that shed prefer to pay her mortgage by standing order as shes lost 
confidence in Barclays ability to take payments by direct debit. Barclays has said in letters 
sent to Ms H that there are several ways that Ms H can choose to pay her mortgage. One of 
these methods is by standing order. I leave it to Ms H to decide if this is the way she would 
like to continue to make her mortgage repayments going forward.
Barclays has offered Ms H £350 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused to her. This 
is in addition to the refund of around £810 of mortgage interest covering the months from 
November 2020 to January 2021 when there were problems with the direct debit. 
Ms H has said she doesnt feel this is enough for the upset this matter has caused her. Im 
conscious that this problem happened after an already difficult period that Ms H experienced 
as a result of the pandemic. I dont underestimate how challenging things must have been 
for Ms H in a personal and professional capacity at that time. Having taken into account all 
the corrective steps and wider compensation offered by Barclays to resolve this matter, I 
think this payment is fair and reasonable for its failings at this time. I make no further award.
Putting things right
Barclays has agreed to:
- cover the cost of interest on Ms Hs mortgage from November 2020 to January 2021;
- clear Ms Hs credit history of missed mortgage repayments for the same period; and
- pay Ms H £350 for the upset caused to her by its administrative failings and poor customer 
service. 
Barclays should complete the above steps now if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC should be upheld. 
Barclays should correct Ms Hs credit file from November 2020 to January 2021, cover the 
cost of interest on the mortgage for the same period and pay Ms H £350 (if it hasnt already) to settle the matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman