DRN-3703730
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy with how Great Lakes Reinsurance (UK) SE handled a claim for damage 
to her sofa on her furniture protection policy.  
What happened
Mrs V has a furniture protection policy which provides cover for accidental damage 
for five years. Its underwritten by Great Lakes.
Mrs V contacted Great Lakes to make a claim for damage to her leather sofa, which 
it accepted and arranged for the sofas manufacturer to provide new leather parts for 
it to fit.
Mrs V complained that the new leather doesnt match the rest of the sofa and says 
its a different texture and colour. She wants the leather to be an identical match or if 
thats not possible, to receive a replacement sofa.
Great Lakes says the new leather is the correct colour, and so its satisfied it has 
handled the claim fairly. It says any difference is due to the original leather wearing 
over time because of use.
Mrs V brought a complaint to this service. An investigator considered it but didnt 
uphold it. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy document which says: Valid claims will be settled by 
cleaning, repairing or replacing the damaged product at our discretion up to a value 
not exceeding the maximum liability. So, Im satisfied the policy makes it clear its up 
to Great Lakes to decide how it wants to settle the claim.
To repair the damage Great Lakes ordered replacement leather by providing the 
manufacturer with the batch label and a sample of the original fabric.
Mrs V is unhappy as she says the fabric doesnt exactly match. So, Ive considered 
the evidence provided. The technicians report says: I have advised [the] customer 
that they wont get a closer match due to [the] age of sofa. I also feel this could be 
resprayed. Technician has left parts with customer in case they have [them] fitted. 
This suggests the correct shade and fabric was ordered by Great Lakes.
Having seen the photos of the damage and the technicians report, Im satisfied 
Great Lakes has taken reasonable steps to provide an effective repair and I think 
theres little more Great Lakes could have done in order to provide as closest match 
as possible in the circumstances. Given the nature of the damage, Im satisfied that 
offering replacement leather or a respray of the sofa was a proportionate resolution.
Its unclear if Mrs V has declined the alternative option of having her sofa resprayed  
Ill leave that decision with her. 
I note Mrs Vs comments that the retailer said the policy would provide an exact 
match in the event of a repair and so she doesnt think the policy is suitable. This is a 
different matter to the complaint Ive considered. So, if Mrs V has concerns about 
how the policy was sold, she would need to make a separate complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman