DRN-2931698
The complaint
Ms D and Mr L complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their travel insurance claim. 
My references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Ms D and Mr L have travel insurance through Mr Ls bank account. The insurer is Aviva. 
They were due to travel to a country in Asia on 23 February 2020 returning 7 March 2020 
where Mr L was participating in a one day sporting event. On 17 February 2020 the event 
was cancelled by that countrys government due to Covid-19.
Ms D and Mr L cancelled their travel plans. They claimed on the policy for the unrefunded 
flight costs of £898.
Aviva declined the claim saying the reason for cancellation wasnt covered by the policy 
terms. In particular:
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) hadnt advised against all but essential 
travel before or during the planned trip dates
the area in which Ms D and Mr L was staying wasnt affected by pandemic or 
epidemic influenza
Covid-19 wasnt a major incident under the policy terms.
Ms D and Mr L complained to us. In summary they said:
it was unfair for Aviva to rely on the technicality of Covid-19 not being classed as 
influenza when the two are very similar. They provided a quote from the World Health 
Organisation (WHO) which they said showed the similarity
Aviva had interpreted the policy term to mean theres cover for pandemic influenza 
and epidemic influenza. But the policy term could be read that theres cover for a 
pandemic and, as a separate event, epidemic influenza. Covid-19 was a pandemic
theyre shocked Aviva didnt consider Covid-19 to be a major incident given its global 
impact
they would like Aviva to pay the claim and compensation for their stress and 
inconvenience in having to complain.
Our investigator said Aviva fairly declined the claim.
Ms D and Mr L disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They added that big city 
sporting events are only cancelled due to significant events such as hurricane, terrorism and 
Covid-19 so it was reasonable to consider Covid-19 a major incident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms D and Mr Ls 
complaint. 
I dont uphold the complaint, Ill explain why.
The policy provides cover if Ms D and Mr L cancel a trip for specified insured events. Those 
include where the FCO advised against all travel or all but essential travel to Ms D and 
Mr Ls destination or advised British citizens to leave the areas in which they would be 
staying. During the planned trip dates the FCO hadnt issued such advice for the relevant 
country. 
Ms D and Mr L say the FCO were slow to issue the advice but when assessing the claim 
Aviva could reasonably rely on the advice the FCO gave at the time. So I think Aviva could 
fairly say the claim didnt come within that part of the policy.
Ms D and Mr L say their claim should be paid under either of the following policy terms for 
insured events for cancellation:
you choose not to travel or continue your trip because;
c) your accommodation is directly affected by a food poisoning outbreak, or the area 
in which you are staying is affected by pandemic or epidemic influenza;
(d) a major incident such as a terrorist attack happens within a 50 mile radius of the 
area in which you will be/are staying and you do not wish to travel or you wish to 
return home early.
Ms D and Mr L believe Aviva should treat Covid-19 as if its influenza. Ive seen the WHOs 
quote they provided which explains how Covid-19 and influenza viruses have a similar 
disease presentation. 
Ive given the point considerable thought. Although Covid-19 is a serious infectious 
respiratory illness its not influenza. And the WHO have said Covid-19 isnt influenza, or 
SARS, but a different virus. So I think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Ms D and 
Mr Ls claim wasnt covered by the policy term covering epidemic influenza. And I dont think 
it would be reasonable for me to say Aviva must treat Covid-19 as if it were influenza as 
thats not the risk Aviva decided to cover.
I understand Ms D and Mr Ls point about the policy wording being unclear. If I agreed then, 
in line with case law, we generally say that where there is doubt about the meaning of the 
contract the words will be construed against the person who put them forward, in this case 
Aviva. But even if I did agree that the policy wording could be reasonably read that an 
insured event is a pandemic (which doesnt have to be an influenza pandemic) that doesnt 
mean Ms D and Mr Ls claim is covered. The WHO didnt declare Covid-19 a pandemic until 
11 March 2020 which was several days after Ms D and Mr L would have returned from their 
trip. So I cant reasonably say at the time they cancelled the trip there was a pandemic and the claim should be covered on that basis.
Ms D and Mr L also believe Aviva should cover the claim as Covid-19 was a major incident 
which caused the sporting event to be cancelled.
The policy doesnt define major incident but gives an example of one, a terrorist attack. 
That example means I think that in order to fall within the meaning of the policy a major 
incident is a one off standalone incident which requires emergency arrangements to be 
implemented within a 50 mile radius of the area where Ms D and Mr L would be. Covid-19 
isnt a one off standalone incident so I think Aviva could reasonably say it didnt wasnt a 
major incident for cover under the policy terms.
Mr L says the cancelled sporting event was the main purpose of the trip. But the policy 
covers the overall trip itself, not a specific event. The event was just one day of a planned 
two weeks trip. There was no FCO advice against travel, and no wide ranging restrictions in 
place at the destination, during the time Ms D and Mr L were due to travel. So I think Aviva 
reasonably considered they could still have gone on their trip.
Overall I think Aviva fairly and reasonably declined the claim.
I dont generally say an insurer should pay a consumer compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience of making a complaint and theres no reason for me to do so in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman