DRN-2192366
The complaint
Mr T complains about problems following an attempt to pay a cheque into his Santander UK 
Plc account.
What happened
Mr T says he went to a Santander ATM to pay a cheque into his account but says the 
cheque wasnt accepted. He says he then carried out an internet search to find out a local 
branch opening hours and went to the branch, but it was closed. Mr T says he would like 
compensation for his wasted trips to the ATM and branch and says Santander ought to take 
responsibility for its ATM not working and for the incorrect information.
Santander says the opening hours information on its website is correct, but Mr T used a 
search engine and it cant be responsible for that information. It says it has provided 
information about the ATM to its relevant team but says compensation isnt appropriate.
Mr T brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr T had told Santander he used a search engine for the opening hours and not 
Santanders website and so it couldnt be responsible for the mistake. The investigator 
thought Santander had dealt fairly with the ATM issue by providing feedback to its technical 
team and that compensation wasnt justified.
Mt T doesnt accept that view and says its Santanders role to make sure its ATMs work and 
that it provides appropriate service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Santander has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Mr T will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened to the call between the parties and Im satisfied Mr T told Santander he used 
a search engine rather than Santanders own website to check the branch opening hours. I 
appreciate there was a difference, but I have checked Santanders records and Im satisfied 
its website had the correct opening hours on it. And I cant fairly hold it responsible for the 
incorrect information that Mr T saw. I would not expect Santander to check the information 
that appears online about it or take action if there are mistakes. Mr T will need to complain to 
the provider of the information if he wishes to continue with that part of the complaint.
I appreciate Mr T was unable to pay the cheque into his account and I have no doubt was 
caused frustration by that. But that doesnt mean I can fairly hold Santander responsible for 
that and I accept there are occasions when there are problems paying a cheque into an 
account via an ATM, where for example there is a problem with the cheque or with the ATM 
being unable to read the cheque. Im satisfied that Santander has fairly explained that it 
would tell its technical ATM team about the problem, but I dont think what took place 
justifies compensation or that I can be sure the problem was caused by the ATM and not by 
the cheque itself. I also think there are occasions when banking facilities such as ATMs 
dont work but that doesnt mean customers are automatically entitled to compensation.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander has fairly provided an explanation to Mr T about the 
opening hours information and has fairly told him that it has recorded the details of the ATM 
issue with its relevant department. In those circumstances I cant fairly order it to pay 
compensation to Mr T as he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman