DRN-3399462
The complaint
Mr Q says that J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) has not resolved his complaint 
about fraud on his account to his satisfaction.
Whats happened?
On 17 October 2020, a parcel from JDW which Mr Q hadnt ordered was delivered to his 
address. He signed into his JDW account, which he hadnt used for some time, and saw that 
someone had placed orders without his knowledge or consent. He reported the matter to 
JDW on the same day. JDW agreed to let its fraud department know what had happened, 
close his account and arrange for the parcel hed received to be collected.
On 20 October 2020, the parcel was collected but Mr Q experienced some issues with the 
courier on the day. 
On 24 October 2020, JDW apologised to Mr Q for the service hed received from its courier 
and said that it had passed his feedback on. JDW also confirmed that it was investigating the 
fraudulent activity on his account. 
On 27 October 2020, Mr Q received an invoice requesting payment on his JDW account. 
JDW said it was sorry that hed received this correspondence, which had been sent 
systematically and could be ignored, on 30 October 2020.
JDW issued its final response letter on 9 November 2020. It said that it was unable to 
prevent the fraudulent activity on Mr Qs account because the transactions appeared to be 
authentic at the time. But it was in the process of reducing the account balance to zero 
(completed on 16 November 2020) and would be closing the account, as per Mr Qs request. 
JDW also confirmed that it had requested the removal of all linked adverse data recorded on 
Mr Qs credit reference file, but it could take up to 28 days for the credit reference agencies 
to update their records.
Mr Q has referred a complaint to this Service because he says JDW took too long to act, and 
it hasnt resolved his complaint to his satisfaction  he says his overall experience was 
extremely frustrating. In summary, hes said that:
His account wasnt closed to prevent further misuse in a timely manner.
He received an invoice requesting payment on his account on 27 October 2020.
His account showed arrears because of the fraud, and a default was recorded 
against it on his credit reference file.
Facility takeover fraud was reported to CIFAS (the national fraud database) on          
9 November 2020.
His credit score dropped because of this matter. In 2021, he was declined for credit 
and lost out on preferential interest rates (for many reasons, including information on 
his credit reference file) and he experienced problems in opening a savings account.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt recommend that JDW do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Mr Q was unhappy with this outcome, so his complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether a business error has occurred and, if it has, what the business 
should do to put things right. Unfortunately, Mr Q has been the victim of fraud. But from what 
Ive seen, I dont think this was a result of a business error, or that there was anything JDW 
ought to have done differently to prevent the fraud. So, my findings will focus on what JDW 
did after the fraud occurred and Mr Q reported it. 
In cases such as this, businesses have eight weeks to resolve complaints from their 
customers. Mr Q reported the fraud to JDW on 17 October 2020 and JDW issued its final 
response to his complaint on 9 November 2020  within eight weeks. It said that it would be 
reducing the account balance to zero (completed on 16 November 2020) and closing the 
account, as per Mr Qs request. And that it had requested the removal of all linked adverse 
data recorded on Mr Qs credit reference file. So JDW investigated Mr Qs complaint, upheld 
it and put him back into the position that he would have been in but for the fraud within eight 
weeks. 
Overall, Im satisfied that JDW investigated Mr Qs complaint and took all the action I would 
reasonably expect it to take, within an appropriate timeframe. Im pleased to see that JDW 
also responded appropriately and quickly to the further issues Mr Q reported during its 
investigation  such as the issues he experienced with its courier and the receipt of an 
invoice which had been systematically generated. Im not persuaded that a business error 
occurred in this instance, or that it would be fair or reasonable to require JDW to take any 
further steps to resolve this complaint.
Ive seen that JDW reported facility takeover fraud to CIFAS on 9 November 2020, but I dont 
think this was an unreasonable course of action. This type of marker is placed to protect 
victims of fraud from future financial harm and should not negatively affect a persons credit 
reference file. The marker may well have been the reason that additional security checks 
were necessary when Mr Q tried to open a savings account, and I understand that this may 
have been frustrating for him. But as the marker was fairly applied, I dont think this should 
change the outcome of the complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Qs comments about the issues he experienced in attempting to obtain 
credit in 2021, but he hasnt been able to provide any evidence to indicate this was a direct 
and sole result of this matter (hes said he was told it was for many reasons, including 
information on his credit file), and I think thats unlikely. As Ive set out above, JDW started 
the process of removing any adverse data recorded against Mr Qs JDW account on his 
credit reference file in early November 2020, and the evidence shows that the account 
balance was reduced to zero on 16 November 2020. So, I think its unlikely it was still 
showing by 2021. And the CIFAS marker (which Ive concluded was reasonably applied) 
should not have had a negative impact on applications for credit.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman