DRN-4440554
The complaint
Ms H complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AI) unfairly declined her claim for 
lost jewellery under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H made a claim to AI when she lost her ring when staying at a hotel. AI reviewed and 
validated the claim but declined it as it didnt feel Ms H had met the endorsements on her 
policy. Due to the value of the ring, Ms H was expected to provide a valuation for it from the 
past 3 years, and she needed to have it inspected by a competent jeweller periodically 
ensuring any necessary repairs are carried out.
Ms H felt she had provided evidence she had met the endorsements, so she thinks AI 
should pay her claim.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She felt Ms H had provided sufficient 
evidence to satisfy the endorsements on the policy, so didnt think AI was fair to decline the 
claim. She said AI should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy. AI disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 24 October 2023. I said:
Ive checked the policy and the endorsements described are clearly set out. So, Id expect 
there to be some evidence to show Ms H has met these or that the requirement is relevant to 
the loss that has taken place.
AI said the evidence Ms H provided of the valuation of the ring couldnt be considered as it 
was dated after the loss date. The policy states a valuation must be provided from the last 
three years.
Ms H has provided a written testimony from her jeweller. The jeweller confirms the ring was 
originally purchased from its shop and was bought for £3,000. It describes the ring and says 
a replacement value would be £4,000. Given the ring was several years old, it doesnt seem 
unreasonable the ring wouldve increased in value.
The statement from the jeweller is written on company headed paper with full details of the 
jewellers business on it (e.g., address, VAT number) and its signed by the jeweller. I have 
no reason to doubt the integrity of the statement, so I think it should be considered even if it 
is post loss. A fair value has been provided by an expert. On a side point, I dont think the 
policy is clear the valuation needs to be time stamped pre-loss. It just says from the last 
three years  which is vague as the start of that three years isnt set out in the policy.
AI said the second endorsement wasnt met as an inspection warranty wasnt provided from 
the last three years. The endorsement is described further on the schedule it reads that the 
ring isnt covered unless the settings of the stones and the clasps of the watches and 
jewellery are examined by a competent jeweller once every three years and any necessary 
repairs carried out.
As part of the jewellers statement, he wrote she bought the ring in to repair her claws and 
to ensure the diamonds do not fall out. AI said this isnt evidence repairs were carried out 
and has said Ms H needs a receipt to evidence repairs. I dont think this is reasonable. 
Firstly, I dont think the maintenance of a ring is relevant in this claim  its not like a bracelet 
where the clasp may have become damaged and fell off, which may increase the risk of it 
being lost. A ring is unlikely to have that kind of problem. 
Secondly, Ms Hs statement from the jeweller satisfies to me that a competent jeweller had 
carried out a recent inspection. So, I think Ms H satisfies the endorsement anyway. Ive 
already said I have no reason to doubt the integrity of the jewellers statement. I think if AI 
wanted to validate this further it couldve contacted the jeweller direct.
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend that AI settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Ms H said she was distressed that her claim 
was declined, and I think the delay in been able to replace her ring has left her not been able 
to enjoy it. So, I intend to award £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms H agreed with my provisional decision, and she didnt have anything further to add.
AI didnt accept by provisional decision. It said [the ombudsman has] stated that [he] cannot 
doubt the integrity of the document provided from the jeweller, however [AI] disagree[s]. The 
letter in itself does not prove anything. They do not have any booking confirmation, invoice, 
receipt etc and there are no specific dates as to when the ring went into the jewellers for a 
repair/inspection. The jeweller has not stated how recent they saw the ring. Overall, I am 
satisfied that we cannot accept the validity of a document that is produced post loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision that I was comfortable with the evidence provided by Ms 
H from her jeweller in respect to the valuation for the ring and to confirm an inspection had 
taken place. Therefore, as new information hasnt been presented, I see no reason to 
change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd:
Settle Ms Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy
Pay Ms H £100* compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
* Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it that Ms H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman