DRN-3465327
The complaint
Mrs T complained that she was asked by her mortgage broker, Brooklands Commercial 
Finance Limited, to prove that her job could be transferred when she moved across the 
country. Mrs T said shed been clear she couldnt get proof. She wanted her fees back.
What happened
Mrs T told us she was employed by a national organisation. Her employment contract states 
a location for her work. She wanted to move across the country to be closer to family, and 
expected to continue to work for her current employer, at a new location. She asked 
Brooklands, a mortgage broker, to find a mortgage lender for her so she could buy a house 
at her preferred new location. But she told us that she had always been clear with the broker 
that she couldnt obtain any proof of her continued employment at the new location.
Mrs T received a decision in principle, but never received a confirmed mortgage offer. She 
wanted Brooklands to pay her back the £495 broker fee it had charged.
Mrs Ts broker said that it hadnt done anything wrong. It said that a broker fee is payable 
once someone receives a decision in principle from a lender. And Mrs T had a decision in 
principle which she decided to accept on 5 August. 
When Mrs T said she wanted to go ahead with a full application, the lender then contacted 
Brooklands for further information. It said that, because Mrs T was moving so far from her 
old home, it wanted proof that she would continue to be employed at her new location. But 
ultimately, the evidence she provided wasnt accepted by this lender. And a later lender also 
refused to go ahead because Mrs T didnt have detailed evidence showing where she would 
be employed, what her salary would be, how many hours a week she would be working, and 
when employment was starting at this new location. 
Brooklands hasnt accepted what Mrs T says, that she told it from the start she wouldnt be 
able to get proof of employment at her new location. Brooklands showed us emails between 
it and Mrs T, in which it asked for proof of ongoing employment, and Mrs T said she would 
try to get this. Brooklands said that it didnt expect this would prove as difficult to obtain as it 
eventually did.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she sympathised with 
Mrs Ts situation, but she unfortunately didnt think either of the letters Mrs T supplied to her 
broker would be suitable for mortgage purposes. And our investigator said it didnt look as if 
Mrs T had always said she couldnt get proof of her future employment, because our 
investigator had seen emails where Mrs T was trying to get a letter from her employer, as 
proof. Our investigator didnt think Brooklands had set an unrealistic deadline for this.
Our investigator said that Brooklands had done what it said it would do in return for the 
broker fee, it had provided a decision in principle from a lender. So our investigator didnt 
think that Brooklands had to pay this money back.
Mrs T wasnt happy with that, she didnt think that wed read her complaint properly. She 
said shed told Brooklands from the very beginning that she didnt get an automatic transfer 
and wouldnt be able to supply any documents, even though her manager wrote a short 
letter explaining shed still have a job. But she said she knew after a few weeks that 
Brooklands wasnt going to be able to do what it had promised, and she said the service was 
very poor. She told us Brooklands then said she would never have got a mortgage without 
the documentation Brooklands wanted, and she thought that was key. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. Because Mrs T didnt agree, the case came to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand that Mrs T has worked for her current employer for a long time, and it appears 
that she didnt anticipate any problems in still working for this employer, after she moved. But 
Mrs T has told us that she was clear from the start that she wouldnt be able to get any 
documentation showing that she would still be employed by her current employer after she 
moved. She said Brooklands took her money, knowing this. And thats the main reason she 
wants it to refund the fee she paid.
Unfortunately, theres no confirmation of this. As Mrs T is aware, Brooklands doesnt record 
its calls. And Brooklands hasnt accepted what Mrs T said about not being able to prove her 
future employment. When theres a disagreement like this about whats been said, I have to 
think about whats most likely to have happened. 
I can see that Mrs T did write to Brooklands, to say her employer wouldnt put anything in 
writing, and that shed always said this. But unfortunately these emails and letter are dated 
around the time Mrs Ts second mortgage offer fell through. The only documentation we 
have before this, is in the form of emails which suggest that Mrs T was asking her employer 
to provide proof of ongoing employment after she moved house. Those emails dont show 
that Mrs T had previously expressed concerns about this. 
Ive considered what both sides have said carefully, but on the evidence available to me, Im 
not able to say that its most likely that Mrs T did clearly explain to Brooklands before it 
agreed to help, that she would not be able to get any formal written confirmation of her 
continued employment after she moved house. And because of that, I cant say that its 
Brooklands fault that Mrs T didnt manage to secure a mortgage offer.
I note that Brooklands did what it had agreed to do, for the broker fee that Mrs T paid  it got 
a positive decision in principle from a lender. I know that Mrs T will be very disappointed, but 
I dont think Brooklands has to give that money back. And that means I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman