DRN-4288784
Complaint
Miss S has complained about a loan Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. 
She says shes struggled to repay the loan as it was unaffordable from the outset. In Miss S  
view, L2G should have realised this at the time it provided the funds to her and it therefore 
irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
L2G provided Miss S with a loan for £1,000.00 in January 2022. This loan had an APR of 
811.1% and was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £205.56. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Miss S complaint and he thought L2G hadnt done 
anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly. So he didnt think that Miss S complaint should be 
upheld. 
Miss S disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 24 July 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 24 July 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Miss S complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Miss S complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss S could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G argued that its assessment was proportionate. But I was mindful that it determined that 
Miss S income was significantly lower that shed declared. And the credit check it carried out 
showed Miss S was heavily overdrawn and had previous difficulties with credit which 
included missed payments, at least one arrangement to pay and defaults. 
So I was persuaded by what Miss S had said about already being in a difficult financial 
position at the time. And while I acknowledged that it was possible her credit file reflected 
her choices rather than because she was struggling, I made it clear that my experience of 
these types of cases suggest this was unlikely, I was nonetheless satisfied that further 
checks would more like than not have shown that Miss S wouldnt have been able to repay 
this loan without experiencing undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
All of this left me satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than 
not have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Miss S. And as L2G 
provided Miss S with this loan, notwithstanding this, I was minded to conclude that it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
I thought that Miss S had ended up paying (and was still being expected to pay) interest, 
fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So I 
concluded by stating that it was my intention to issue a final decision which found that      
Miss S lost out because of what L2G did wrong and that it needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss S confirmed that she agreed with my provisional decision and that she had nothing 
further to add.
L2G confirmed receiving my provisional decision. It said that it had nothing further to add 
and that it would await my final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Miss S complaint in my provisional decision 
of 24 July 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to consider, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. So Im still upholding Miss S complaint and 
I remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss S
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that L2G should put things right for Miss S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Miss S made, whether to L2G or any third-party debt purchaser, should be 
deducted from the new starting balance  the £1,000.00 originally lent. If Miss S has 
already repaid more than £1,000.00 then L2G should treat any extra as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss S to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information L2G recorded about this loan should be removed from Miss S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 24 July 2023, Im 
upholding Miss S complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman