DRN-1884799
The complaint
Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B was sold PPI when taking out a credit card through the post in 2004. He thinks it was 
mis-sold.
Capital One said the PPI wasn't mis-sold, but refunded some cost of the PPI because it 
didn't tell Mr B about the high level of commission and profit share it would receive.
I issued a provisional decision explaining I wasn't planning to uphold the complaint. Capital 
One said it had nothing further to add. Mr B didn't respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons.
Mr Bs credit card application form presented him with a yes or no choice about PPI, and he 
ticked the yes box. So, I think Capital One made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the 
PPI, and he chose to take it out  although I can understand if he cant remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable, and he had very 
limited sick pay and no other way to make repayments if he couldnt work. So, I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Capital 
One has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mr B because it got a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr B about 
that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. To put that right, Capital One has 
paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium - and I think that is fair in this case.Ive also thought about Mr Bs age and the fairly imminent change in cover once he reached 
65 or retired (if sooner). If this had been an advised sale, where Capital One had to take 
account of things including Mr Bs age and ensure the policy was suitable for him  then I 
think that wouldve been important.
But Capital One didnt advise Mr B to take the PPI  so it didnt need to check this. And 
Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve declined the cover if hed received clear information 
about this. He was fully covered at the time of taking out the policy and for up to 21 
months afterwards. And after that he was still covered (although to a lesser extent). He may 
have still felt the cover to be worthwhile, or he couldve cancelled it when the cover changed.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman