DRN-3261288
The complaint
Ms C complains about the cost of repaying her loan with Metropolitan Housing Trust Ltd.
What happened
In December 2008 Ms C took a loan of around £76,000 from Metropolitan Housing Trust Ltd 
(MHT) under their My Choice Home Buy equity loan scheme, which was secured as a 
second legal charge over her property. She borrowed just over 30% of the value of the 
property at the time. 
The amount Ms C is obliged to repay under the agreement is linked to the value of the 
property at the time the loan is repaid. In November 2020 the cost of repaying the loan was 
around £180,000. Ms C thought the amount shed have to pay was unfair. She felt MHT 
shouldnt be allowed to profit from an increase in the value of the property which resulted 
from her investment in maintaining and improving the property. 
Ms C complained to MHT. They explained theyd deduct from the amount she had to pay to 
them, when the loan ended, any increase in the value of the property that resulted from 
certain structural improvements, provided theyd agreed she could carry them out and 
subject to valuation by a suitably qualified surveyor of her choice. Ms C was unhappy with 
MHTs response and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said she couldnt interfere with the terms of the contract Ms C had agreed 
with MHT and didnt uphold her complaint. Since Ms C didnt accept our investigators view, I 
reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ms Cs strength of feeling about how the equity loan scheme works. But this 
service can only consider individual complaints. Ms C would need to raise any wider 
concerns she has with the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
The loan agreement between Ms C and MHT set out clearly how it works. Ms C pays an 
annual interest charge and the amount shes required to repay when the loan comes to an 
end is linked to the value of the property at that time. The loan has to be repaid by its 25th 
anniversary but can be paid off sooner. I think Ms C understood she was agreeing to pay 
back around 30% of the value of the property when the loan came to an end. 
Ms C argues the agreement ought to have contained a provision that the lender should 
contribute towards the costs shes invested in the property. And she thinks its fair the lender 
should do so now. A court would need to consider whether the terms of the agreement were 
unfair or whether other contractual terms could be implied. But I can consider whether MHT 
have treated her fairly and reasonably.
MHTs confirmed it will pay Ms C any increase in the value of the property resulting from 
works shes carried out, subject to certain requirements. Only structural works agreed by 
MHT will be taken into account. And a suitably qualified surveyor of Ms Cs choice will need 
to confirm any increase in the property value resulting from such works. MHT confirmed in 
their email to her dated 18 November 2020 that, whilst they didnt receive information about 
the works at the time, they can provide retrospective consent, as long as Ms C provides 
them with required documents. I think thats fair. 
Ms C argues money shes spent on things like management charges and normal property 
maintenance should also be considered. Theyre part of the usual costs of occupying and 
maintaining a property. And Ms C was obliged to keep the property in good repair under the 
terms of the loan agreement to avoid being in breach of contract. I dont think its 
unreasonable that MHT wont consider Ms Cs costs in relation to these sorts of expenses in 
assessing the increase in the value of the property. 
Im sorry to hear Ms C feels she wont be able to afford to buy another property once shes 
paid off the loans secured on the property. If shes concerned about her financial situation, 
Id encourage her to get independent financial advice. However, bearing everything in mind, 
I dont think MHT have treated Ms C unfairly, and I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman