DRN-3506127
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund withdrawals that she says she 
didnt make from her account.
What happened
Miss M disputes two withdrawals made over the counter in Barclays branches. The first was 
for £3,000 on 11 February 2020 and the second for £2,000 on 12 February 2020. She says 
that she must have lost her bank card and that she didnt tell anyone her PIN. A payment 
using the card to purchase petrol on 15 February 2020 was refunded.
Barclays said it wouldnt be refunding these cash withdrawals. These were made when the 
chip on the card was read and the correct PIN entered. The last payment Miss M says she 
recognised was four days earlier. Miss M said she thought she had lost the card when out 
running. She hadnt reported the dispute until 9 March 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. There was no clear way in 
which the PIN required had been discovered. Miss M said she had her PIN recorded on her 
phone due to a medical condition which affected her. But although she now said she had lost 
her phone this wasnt at the same time as her card. The pattern of attempted payments 
wasnt typical of a fraudster and didnt continue after the card had been cancelled. Our 
investigator noted that the withdrawals were made some way from Miss Ms home address. 
But there was nothing to show she couldnt have been there. And she couldnt rule out a 
third party being authorised to use the card. Given the way they were made she didnt think 
that Barclays would have any reason to alert Miss M to them.
Miss M didnt agree. She said she was trying to obtain some evidence about where she was 
at the time of the withdrawals. She said that her medical condition means that she cant 
remember something for a long time. There was no reason for her to travel to the location of 
the withdrawals. Her money had been stolen. And her phone had been taken so she didnt 
realise the money had gone from her account until she went to purchase something online. 
Her phone did have a passcode lock on it. She didnt use the card much and she was 
unhappy that Barclays hadnt alerted her to these withdrawals even though it knew about her 
health condition. Looking at CCTV would have shown who made the withdrawals and there 
is insufficient security at Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Miss M wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Miss M authorise the payments on the account which could have been by allowing 
someone else to use the card?
- Did Barclays act reasonably?
Ive looked at the information Barclays has provided about the way that the payments were 
made. Im satisfied that these would have been authenticated when the chip on the genuine 
card was read and the correct PIN entered. 
The issue is whether Miss M consented to the payments and so authorised them. I note that 
£5,000 was transferred into her current account from her savings account on 22 January 
2020 with a reference Uni Fee. Miss M made relatively small payments using her card on 
several days after that. She says that the last genuine use was on 7 February 2020 when 
her PIN was input. There were no balance enquires recorded using the card before the 
disputed withdrawals. These withdrawals were made in person. There were limited attempts 
to use the card after that. Attempted payments for what seemed to be a parking charge of 
£90 in the vicinity of the branches were declined on 12 February 2020 as there were 
insufficient funds in the account. It had been possible to purchase petrol with the card three 
days later as only £1 was authorised from the card at the time. But when the full charge of 
£57.79 was applied her account balance went overdrawn.
Miss M told Barclays she thought shed lost her card in the park. But to be fair she doesnt 
really know. She hasnt said she suspects anyone known to her being involved. Barclays 
didnt have a record of her saying shed lost her phone at the time. In any event she didnt 
have reason to access her PIN after 7 February 2020 and said it was protected. So, I dont 
have a basis to think that a third party whod somehow obtained her card was also able to 
see her PIN. I wouldnt have expected a fraudster to wait to use the card if Miss M had been 
shoulder surfed on 7 February 2020 and her PIN seen. And even if a third party had 
somehow got hold of her card and phone  theres no explanation of how that person 
accessed the PIN using the phone. I also think that the loss/ theft of her phone might 
reasonably have helped alert Miss M to the loss of her card too.
The person making the withdrawals seemed already to know that there was a significant 
amount of money in the account. Going into a branch to make a withdrawal would be a 
particularly high risk and bold action for a fraudster compared say to using an automated 
withdrawal machine. And so was going back the next day even though to a different branch 
when discovery of the previous large withdrawal could have been made. Given Barclays 
thought it was Miss M in branch who passed its security checks then in my view it didnt 
reasonably need to alert her to these withdrawals as she said it ought to have done. 
I agree with our investigator that the pattern of use of the card wasnt typical of a fraudster. 
And although I accept that Miss M didnt use her account that much there had still been 
regular genuine use of this card before the disputed payments. So, it does seem unusual to 
me that Miss M didnt notice either the card missing or the payments before she reported 
them to Barclays on 9 March 2020.
I dont doubt what Miss M says about her health condition and she has provided supporting 
medical evidence. So, her recall of what happened is understandably not now clear and may 
lead to some inconsistencies to what shed told Barclays. She says she wouldnt have been 
able to travel to the location where the payments were made and had no reason to do so. I 
dont have any supporting evidence about that and for example where she was at the time. 
But she could still have allowed someone else to use her card and PIN. Thats why even if CCTV evidence had been available it wouldnt necessarily have resolved whether the person 
making the withdrawal if different to Miss M was acting with her authority or not.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. For 
the reasons Ive set out I dont think that the most likely explanation of what happened was 
that an unknown third party was able to obtain Miss Ms card and PIN and made these 
withdrawals in this way. So, I think its most likely that Miss M authorised the payments 
which could have involved her allowing someone else to make them.
Barclays considered Miss Ms explanation at the time and decided not to refund the money. 
For reasons Im not totally clear on it refunded the petrol transaction but that was in her 
favour and so isnt a disputed area. I dont think it needed to do more to alert her to what 
happened at the time. And so, I think it acted reasonably and I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. Miss M has explained the impact losing this money had on her and her 
ongoing personal difficulties including in bringing this complaint. So, I fully understand how 
disappointed she will be at my decision given whats at stake for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman