DRN-4076478
The complaint
Mr G complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G had a home insurance policy with Haven. In October 2022 he made a claim after a 
retaining wall at his property collapsed into his neighbours garden. 
Haven declined the claim under the landslip cover in the policy as it said retaining walls were 
excluded from unless it impacted the rest of the property. Mr G wasnt happy with this as he 
said a landslip hadnt caused the wall to collapse but instead the collapse had caused the 
landslip of the earth the wall contained. He also instructed his own expert who confirmed the 
collapse wasnt due to a landslip but more likely due to heavy rain that happened around the 
time.Mr G complained about the decline but Haven didnt uphold the complaint, so he 
brought it to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said Haven should consider the 
claim under the storm cover of the policy. 
Mr G accepted our investigators outcome however Haven didnt. It said it didnt think the 
storm cover would apply to this claim as the damage to the wall appeared to be due to a 
gradually operating cause, which was also excluded from the cover. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven has excluded Mr Gs claim under the subsidence, heave and landslip cover in the 
policy. This excludes damage to walls where there is no damage to the main property. 
I note in assessing the claim Haven hasnt attended the wall to inspect it, or examined any 
photos. It has made an assessment just on the information provided by Mr G over the 
phone.
Since the decline Mr G has provided a report from his own expert. This states:
You asked for confirmation of whether the wall collapsing was caused by a landslide, which 
I can confirm was not the case 
As this is based on an inspection of the wall by an expert I find it persuasive. And as Haven 
have neither instructed an expert or inspected the wall I think its enough to show that it 
acted unfairly by considering the claim under the cover for a landslip.
The report goes onto state:
In terms of what caused the wall to collapse - its difficult to say, however I did note that the 
ground in your garden has a very high clay composite which retains a lot of water. Long 
periods of rain or a lot of rain in a short time will have caused the ground to become far 
heavier than normal and not given it time to drain away, which in my opinion is the likely 
reason the wall failed
Mr Gs policy covers his property for damage caused by a storm. And Mr G has explained 
there was an amber weather warning in place at the time the wall collapsed due to heavy 
rainfall. As his report comments that heavy rain is likely to have been the cause of the 
damage, I agree with our investigator that Haven should consider the claim under the storm 
cover in the policy.
I want to add that I can see from the claim notes provided that it mentions Haven considered 
the claim under the storm cover when it was first notified. However this wasnt discussed 
with Mr G at the time, nor is it clear why the claim wasnt taken forward under that cover. 
Especially as in the claim notes, a weather report is provided that shows heavy rainfall on 
the day of the damage. 
But regardless, since these comments Mr G has provided a report that concludes the likely 
cause of the damage was bad weather. So Id expect Haven to now properly investigate the 
claim and consider it under the storm cover. 
In response to our investigators outcome, Haven has said that it considers the damage to 
have happened gradually, and this is excluded across all areas of cover in the policy. 
However the report provided by Mr Gs expert suggests that damage could have been 
caused by a large amount of rain in a short period. So I dont agree theres enough evidence 
to conclude that the damage has happened gradually.
Based on this I agree with our investigator that Haven should consider Mr Gs claim under 
the storm cover in the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Haven Insurance Company 
Limited to consider his claim under the storm cover in the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman