DRN-2375258
The complaint
Mr R complains that Arrow Global Limited ignored his information requests and instead took 
legal action against him. Mr W wants Arrow to stop pursuing him for the debt.
What happened
In 2012, company S assigned its rights to pursue payment of an outstanding balance on    
Mr Rs credit card account to Arrow. In March 2019, Arrow outsourced the collection of the 
debt to a third-party debt collector, D.
D sent Mr R a letter before action in late March 2019. D says it didnt receive a reply from Mr 
R, so it started a County Court claim in the middle of May 2019.
D received Mr Rs request for documents relating to the debt on 21 June 2019. Some 
documents were sent to Mr R, but Arrow hasnt been able to provide a copy of the default 
notice. Arrow says it has placed the court action on hold until it finds the default notice.
Mr R was unhappy that Arrow hadnt replied to his requests for information under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and then a Subject Access Request (SAR) under the Data 
Protection Act 2018. 
Mr R says that the debt is unenforceable so Arrow and D shouldnt be asking him to 
acknowledge it. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint be upheld. He explained that this 
service cant declare a debt to be unenforceable. This would be for a court to decide. The 
investigator considered whether Arrow had acted reasonably when pursuing the debt and 
handling Mr Rs information requests.
The investigator didnt think Arrow had ignored any requests for information about the debt. 
And the investigator was satisfied that once Arrow knew Mr R wanted more information, it 
gave him what it had. 
Mr R doesnt agree with the investigators recommendation. He asks why the investigator 
seems to have believed Arrow over him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases like this, where the evidence is inconclusive, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That means Ill look at all the available evidence and decide what I think is most 
likely to have happened.
As the investigator has already said, this service cant declare a credit agreement to be 
unenforceable  that argument is better suited for the courts to decide. My role is to consider 
whether Arrow has acted unreasonably when pursuing the debt and in dealing with Mr Rs 
information requests. 
The first time Arrow says it was aware of Mr Rs information request was after the court 
claim had been issued. I appreciate Mr R says hed asked for this information previously, but 
he hasnt given us further evidence to support this such as copy letters or proof of posting. 
So, on balance, I cant reasonably find that Arrow failed to respond to an earlier request from 
Mr R. This means, I cant criticise Arrow for taking legal action after Mr R didnt make any 
payments towards the outstanding debt.
Arrow has placed the court action on hold while it tries to locate the default notice. But I cant 
say that this means Arrow is acting unfairly if it contacts Mr R about the debt.
Arrow says it wrote to Mr R after it received his SAR as part of its data protection 
procedures. If Mr R hasnt responded to this letter already, then I suggest he does so. 
Overall, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to show that Arrow has acted incorrectly 
in its dealings with Mr R. So, I find it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require Arrow to take 
any action in response to Mr Rs complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman