DRN-3904456
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc declined to extend the term of his interest only 
mortgage solely due to his age. Mr B wants Santander to offer the same products to him that 
it offers to younger applicants.
What happened
Mr B took out an interest only mortgage with Santander in 2005. The term expired in late 
2020 with an unpaid balance of about £550,000. Santander agreed a one-year extension.
Mr B then asked Santander to extend the term for five years on an interest only basis. At that 
time he was 70 years old. Mr B says the Covid-19 pandemic and geopolitical changes 
affected his income and investments. He wanted an extension so that he could wait for a 
better time to sell his investments. 
Santander said 70 is its upper age limit for interest only mortgages, so couldnt offer Mr B an 
extension on an interest only basis. Mr B says Santander discriminated against him due to 
his age.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, Santander said its policy on maximum age limits is allowed 
under equalities law and is intended to protect both Santander and customers. Santander 
said it would consider a capital repayment mortgage, and would need to complete an income 
and expenditure review with Mr B to establish if repaying the mortgage over a short term 
was affordable.
Our investigator said Santander applied its policy correctly. It didnt have to extend the term 
of Mr Bs mortgage so that he could choose when to sell investments. While Mr B hoped his 
investments would increase in value during an extension, there was no guarantee of this.
Mr B said our investigator hadnt addressed his complaint, which is that Santander refused 
to give him an interest only mortgage due solely to his age. He considers this to be contrary 
to the Equality Act 2010. Mr B said he has the financial resources to repay the mortgage, 
regardless of market circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Mr Bs interest only mortgage expired in late 2020. Mr B said his income had 
been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Santander agreed a 12-month extension and 
recommended Mr B take advice about his options.
In 2022 Mr B contacted Santander about his options. 
Santander said it couldnt offer an interest only extension due to Mr Bs age. It said it could 
consider a repayment mortgage up to Mr Bs 75th birthday. Mr B said he didnt think hed be 
able to afford the monthly payments. 
Mr B asked about his wife being added to the property title and the mortgage, or applying for 
a mortgage in her sole name. Santander said Mr B would need to make a change of 
borrower application. It said Mr Bs wife would have to meet its lending criteria when she 
applied for a mortgage. 
Mr B said the best option for him was to carry on with the same mortgage and make lump 
sum repayments. Mr B told Santander that while his investments are sufficient to repay the 
mortgage, he wants to be able to sell stocks at a favourable time, depending on the market. 
Santander said it couldnt offer an extension on this basis. It recommended Mr B take advice 
as other lenders have different policies.
In mid-2022 Mr B told Santander a broker was applying for a lifetime mortgage on his behalf. 
Did Santander treat Mr B unfairly?
Santander told Mr B it wouldnt extend his interest-only mortgage beyond his 70th birthday, 
which is Santanders upper age limit. Financial services providers are entitled under the 
Equality Act 2010 to apply age limits to financial products. Santander is also allowed to set 
its own lending criteria, based on its risk appetite and commercial consideration. I dont have 
the power to interfere with this or to tell Santander who to lend to, or on what terms. 
Mr B says his complaint isnt about his contractual agreement to repay the mortgage, but 
that Santander didnt consider an extension on an interest only basis that (he says) would be 
a regular process for a younger applicant.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We dont have the power to decide whether 
or not Santander is in breach of the Equality Act 2010; only a court has the power to do this. 
We do take relevant law and regulation into account when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint.
Santander provided information about its lending policies, which Im entitled to keep 
confidential as it is commercially sensitive. This includes what data and information it used 
for its risk assessment when setting its upper age limit for interest-only mortgages. But not 
the risk assessment itself. I dont consider Santander needs to provide this for me to reach a 
fair outcome here. Ive explained why below.
I should first explain that since Mr B took out his mortgage in 2005 rules on mortgage 
regulation have changed. Lenders are required to carry out strict affordability assessments 
before offering or agreeing to vary a mortgage (for instance by extending the term). For an 
interest only mortgage, the lender has to check theres a credible strategy to repay the 
capital. 
There are limited exceptions which allow lenders to offer term extensions to some existing 
borrowers, regardless of affordability. If a customer is unable to repay their mortgage 
balance at the end of the term, wed expect a lender to consider what help it can offer. 
Ultimately, whether a lender offers a term extension will depend on an individual customers 
circumstances and whether it assesses an extension as being in their best interests.
I wanted to set this out to explain why it is that I dont agree with Mr Bs comment that 
extensions on an interest only basis are a regular process for younger applicants. 
But the crucial point here is that Mr B was able to repay the mortgage balance. And this is 
why I dont need further information from Santander to reach a fair decision about this 
complaint. Mr B told us he was able to repay the mortgage balance by selling investments. 
He was also in the process of applying for a lifetime mortgage, with the help of a broker, to repay the balance. This would allow Mr B to meet his aim of being able to sell investments 
as and when it suits him.
When Mr B took the mortgage out, he agreed to repay the outstanding capital at the end of 
the term in 2020. Its not unreasonable for Santander to expect the loan to be repaid as 
agreed, especially as Mr B had the means to do so. Mr B was asking Santander to extend 
the term not because he couldnt repay the mortgage, but because this was his preferred 
option. 
Mr B asks that the current unique and extraordinary geopolitical and financial circumstances 
are taken into account. Mr B hopes the situation will become more stable, and his 
investments will increase in value. But future events are unpredictable and theres no 
guarantee of this. Mr Bs investments might decrease in value. So even if Santander did 
consider this, it doesnt mean it would assess a term extension as being in Mr Bs best 
interests. 
Santander explained the steps for a change of borrower application, to add Mr Bs wife to the 
mortgage. It also said that it would consider an application for a capital repayment mortgage 
which could run until Mr Bs 75th birthday. This would require a commitment to make regular 
monthly payments, rather than ad hoc payments as and when it suits Mr B to sell 
investments. Santander would have to check this is affordable. I think Santanders offer to 
consider an application for a repayment mortgage is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account, I dont think I can fairly find that Santander 
made an error or treated Mr B unfairly when it declined to extend the term of his mortgage 
on an interest only basis.
If Mr B doesnt accept my decision, he will be free to pursue his grievances against 
Santander in court. This would include any claim about age discrimination under the Equality 
Act 2010. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman