DRN-2931763
The complaint
Mrs V and Ms V complain on behalf of P, a limited company, that TSB Bank plc has been 
unable to give them online access to Ps business loan account. 
What happened
Mrs V and Ms V are directors of P. P has had a business loan with TSB for several years, 
and this account used to be viewable online. But in 2018, as a result of TSB attempting to 
upgrade its IT systems, online access to the loan account was lost. At first, TSB assumed 
this problem would be solved quickly, but it has turned out to be irreparable and permanent.
In June 2019, TSB paid P £50 compensation for this problem, and paid another £100 in 
December 2020. Being dissatisfied with this response, Mrs V and Ms V brought this 
complaint to our service, on behalf of their company. They say that failing to provide online 
access to the loan account is very poor service, and it has caused considerable 
inconvenience. The only way they can find out information about the loan is to phone TSB, 
and they are always kept waiting on the phone for long periods to get the answers to their 
questions. They say that often the call handler cannot even find the account, even when 
provided with the account number. In particular, this has caused delays in filing tax returns, 
and when they were told they would receive a statement in the post within five working days, 
it took two weeks to arrive.
TSB accepted that its failure to restore online banking was poor service, and apologised. It 
said it had tried to fix the problem, but that when it had become apparent that it could not be 
fixed, it had been better to come clean and tell P that, rather than continue to promise a 
resolution that could not be delivered. It said it had posted annual statements to Ps address 
every June. It said it had told P the wrong timescales for sending the statement, and it 
apologised for that too. TSB argued that £150 was fair compensation for what had happened 
(although it also offered to reimburse any additional expenses P had incurred). But our 
investigator did not agree, and she recommended that TSB pay P a further £100  in 
particular because she thought TSB could have told P earlier than it did that it would be 
unable to repair the fault.
Mrs V and Ms V accepted that recommendation, but TSB did not. It maintained that the 
compensation already paid was fair and reasonable. It asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I think that a total of £250 compensation would be fair. I will briefly explain 
why.
As our investigator has already explained, I can only compensate the company itself, not its 
directors, because it is the company which is the eligible complainant under our rules. I can 
compensate the company for the inconvenience caused to it by its directors having to spend 
time dealing with this problem instead of concentrating on their usual duties, such as time 
spent on the phone. But I cannot compensate individuals for their own experience, however 
frustrating that may have been for them.
I accept that TSB has sent annual statements in the post to the correct address every June, 
and I presume that these were received. I also accept that information about the loan can be 
obtained by phone. These mitigate the problem slightly. But I also accept what Ps directors 
have told me about the difficulties and long waits which they experienced in the phone calls, 
which is not in dispute. And I accept that they require updated information each year for tax 
purposes.
I also take into account that, in this day and age, a persistent inability to provide digital 
access to an account is rather extraordinary. It is terrible service, and there seems to have 
been no good excuse for it to have happened in the first place.
I dont attach as much weight as my colleague did to the amount of time which passed 
before TSB told P that it had given up trying to fix the issue. I think that TSBs perseverance 
is to its credit. But nevertheless, taking the whole case in the round, I am of the view that 
£250, rather than £150, better reflects the level of inconvenience which Ps directors have 
described.
I will therefore order TSB to pay a further £100 to P for its trouble.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to pay P £100, in addition to 
the £150 it has already paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V or Ms V, on 
behalf of P, to accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman