DRN-3125596
The complaint
Mr J complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) added an 
excess mileage charge when he returned a car he had taken on hire purchase. He does not 
believe he should have to pay it, because he had problems with the car during the hire 
purchase period.    
What happened
In July 2017 Mr J entered into a 48-month hire purchase agreement with MBFS. The 
agreement was due to end in July 2021, at which point Mr J could choose to make a final 
payment of £12,100 and keep the car or, having made monthly payments for the four-year 
period, give it back. 
The hire purchase agreement said that Mr J had an annual permitted mileage of 10,000 
miles  that is, 40,000 miles over the period of the agreement. The agreement included:
If you return the vehicle to us and you have exceeded the total permitted mileage, which is 
based on an annual permitted mileage of 10,000 miles, an excess mileage charge of 9.00p 
excluding VAT for each mile will be payable by you for each additional mile exceeding the 
total permitted mileage
Between August 2017 and May 2021 Mr J says that he had to return the car for repairs on 
12 separate occasions, outside normal servicing. This included four major warranty claims  
in respect of two turbo-chargers, the cooling system and the catalytic converter. All the 
repairs were carried out under warranty at no cost to Mr J, the manufacturers warranty 
having been extended in July 2019 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr J contacted MBFS in May 2021 to say that he did not think it would be fair to charge him 
excess mileage at the end of the hire purchase period. He had by that point covered over 
56,000 miles  which would result in an excess mileage charge of some £1,440 plus VAT. 
MBFS did not agree with him. It noted that repairs had been completed under warranty and 
that Mr J had been provided with a replacement car when the turbo charger was replaced in 
July 2019. It offered him £150 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he had been put. 
Mr J has explained that he had intended to keep the car for his son. However, because of 
the problems he had experienced, he no longer wanted to do that. 
Mr J referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She thought however that the offer MBFS had made was reasonable in the 
circumstances  for broadly the reasons MBFS had given. She did not recommend that it do 
anything more to resolve the complaint. 
Mr J did not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have however reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator did.
As the investigator noted, the hire purchase agreement was to be read as including a term 
that the car would be of satisfactory quality  meaning the quality a reasonable person would 
expect in the circumstances. The car was new when Mr J entered into the agreement, so he 
says he was entitled to expect it to be fault-free. MBFS has said that the issues that Mr J 
experienced were most likely due to the excess mileage that Mr J covered. 
Whilst repairs were carried out on several occasions over the course of the hire purchase 
agreement, it does not appear that any detailed analysis was made of the reasons for the 
issues Mr J experienced. I do not believe therefore that I can say that repairs were needed 
because of inherent faults in the car; equally, I cannot fairly conclude that they were 
necessary because Mr J exceeded the mileage allowance  although I do note that the first 
repair was only one month after Mr J took delivery of the car.
However, even if I were to accept that the car was not of satisfactory quality, Mr J has in my 
view received a satisfactory remedy  in the form of repairs carried out under warranty. He 
has also been offered compensation in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has 
been put and which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand of course that Mr J may have exceeded the mileage expecting to keep the car. 
Had he done so, he would not have had to pay excess mileage charges. And I can 
understand too why he might now have changed his mind about keeping the car. But I do 
not believe I can fairly require MBFS to waive the excess mileage charge. Mr J has received 
an adequate and appropriate remedy (in the form of repairs) and has had the benefit of the 
use of the car over and above his agreed mileage allowance. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Js complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 December 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman