DRN-2031448
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) during a meeting in June 1998 when they took out a mortgage. 
What happened
The mortgage was in joint names and the policy provided cover for Mr P in case of accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld. Our adjudicator said the 
circumstances in which a person who was employed in a family business could make an 
unemployment claim were quite limited. And as Mr P was employed in his family business 
when he took the policy out this restriction would have mattered to him. Our adjudicator felt 
that Santander shouldnt have recommended the policy without pointing out that it didnt 
meet all of Mr Ps needs  and had it done so, she thought it likely that Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have taken the policy out.
Santander didnt agree with the adjudicators findings. Santander mainly says that:
the policy doesnt qualify who the employer needs to be.
theres no evidence that Mr P wouldnt suffer a shortfall income if he became unable 
to work due to accident, sickness or redundancy.
being employed in a family business doesnt restrict the customers ability to claim on 
this policy.
So this complaint has been passed to me to decide how it should be settled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Santander has said but Ive still decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. 
This is because Santander recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs P but I dont think it was 
fully suitable for them. And I dont think Santander clearly pointed this out to them.
I agree with the adjudicator that theres not enough information to show that Santander 
explained how the policy terms and conditions would apply to Mr Ps employment 
circumstances. 
And I think its likely that better information about the policy terms wouldve put Mr and Mrs P 
off having PPI. Heres why I say this.
Mr P was working in a business which was controlled by a close family member. He told us 
he was self-employed in that business under a casual arrangement and not entitled to any 
sick pay. 
So I think Mr P would probably be considered self-employed under the policy terms. 
Looking at Mr Ps employment, it probably would be more difficult for him to make an 
unemployment claim (as a self-employed person under these policy terms) than it would be 
for an employee. 
Thats because Mr P wouldnt have been able to make a successful unemployment claim 
unless, amongst other things, he was able to show that he could not find enough work to 
meet all (his) reasonable business and living expenses.
That wasnt a policy requirement that an employed person who became unexpectedly 
unemployed would have to meet. 
So, I think the policy terms put Mr P at a disadvantage compared to the position he wouldve 
been in as an employed person when it came to being able to claim successfully under the 
policy for unemployment.  
And the policy document defines a self-employed person as someone in business and 
trading on his own account as a sole trader or partner as evidenced by business accounts 
covering the twelve months immediately before the policy start date. But I think Mr P 
mightve found it hard to produce business accounts as it doesnt look like he had any 
control over (or even access to or involvement in) the financial side of the business or the 
day to day running of the business. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments. Ive noted that Mr P wouldve been made 
aware of the policy terms and conditions when he took the cover out. But, as an advised 
sale, the onus was on Santander to draw Mr and Mrs Ps attention to features of the cover 
that impacted on Mr Ps particular situation. 
I cant see sufficient information that shows Santander did enough to make clear to 
Mr and Mrs P significant policy details that affected them. Unemployment cover for Mr P was 
an important part of the protection Mr and Mrs P thought they were buying. So what 
Santander says doesnt change my conclusion.
I think it likely Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have bought the policy if theyd understood its 
limitations in their particular circumstances. So, I think Mr and Mrs P have lost out. 
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander (UK) Plc to 
take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman