DRN-3284867
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) changed the way it charges 
him for his overdraft without notifying him of that change. Hes also unhappy with the interest 
applied to his account as he feels it was too high.
What happened
Mr P complained to First Direct that it increased the interest rate he was paying for his 
overdraft without giving him any notice of that change. First Direct said it had written to Mr P 
to inform him about the upcoming changes to its pricing structure and that all charges and 
interest applied to Mr Ps account had been applied correctly. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns. She didnt think First Direct had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr P says he didnt receive any notification from First Direct of the changes it was making to 
how it charged for overdrafts. First Direct has provided a sample of the letter it sent out to 
customers explaining the changes, along with records from its internal systems which show 
that letter was sent to Mr P at the address it held for him. 
The reference code on First Directs record of what was sent to Mr P matches with the 
reference code on the sample letter First Direct has provided. And the address on First 
Directs systems is the same one that Mr P was using when he first referred his complaint to 
us. So Im satisfied that a letter detailing the changes to how First Direct would charge for 
overdrafts was sent to Mr P at the correct address. 
Mr P has said he didnt receive this letter, but Im satisfied that it was sent to him and most 
letters that are sent are delivered. So without any evidence to the contrary Im satisfied that 
he wouldve received the information by post.
 
Turning to whether the charges and interest applied to Mr Ps account were fair, I havent 
considered whether the various amounts First Direct charged over the years were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for 
me to get involved with. 
That said, while Im not looking at First Directs various charging structures per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P if it applied any interest, fees and charges to 
his account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have 
been aware that he was experiencing financial difficulty.
 
But from what Ive seen of Mr Ps bank statements there isnt anything which ought to have 
alerted First Direct to any potential financial difficulty. The account saw regular credit 
balances and didnt show any other clear signs that might suggest financial difficulties. So, in 
these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for First Direct to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
With all this in mind, I dont think First Direct treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably which 
means that Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing 
for Mr P  but I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman