The complaint 
Mrs J complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
her in 1998.
Background 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter, in which I said I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. I asked the parties to comment on how I was minded to decide this 
matter. 
Neither party responded and I have not been provided with any further information or 
evidence to consider. 
My findings 
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in 
deciding this case.
In my provisional decision, I said: 
As things stand, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. I also think that the offer Santander 
made to refund some of the commission it received from Mrs Js PPI premiums is a fair way 
to settle this complaint. Ill explain why below.
The parties agree that the cover was sold to Mrs J during a meeting. I cant know what 
was said during that meeting. To help me decide whats most likely to have happened, 
Ive looked at what Mrs J remembers about it. And Ive also looked at the policy documents 
and some of the documentary evidence that is available from the time.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mrs J knew she had a choice about taking 
this cover and she didnt have to buy it if she didnt want it. In the PPI questionnaire, Mrs J 
said she didnt know shed been sold a policy. I accept that what Mrs J told us is what 
she honestly remembers about the sale. But she made three claims on her policy, so she 
must have known she had cover in order to make those claims. Based upon the evidence 
before me, I think its most likely that Mrs J chose to buy the PPI at the relevant time.
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats a higher test for Santander to satisfy because 
it then had to make sure the cover was suitable for Mrs Js needs. To help me decide 
whether it was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also 
looked at what Mrs J told us about her personal circumstances at the time.
DRN-1939746I can see that if Mrs J had to make a claim, her mortgage repayments would have 
been covered for up to 12 months if she became unwell or if she was made redundant. Mrs J 
told us that she would have received full pay for up to six months if she was sick and that 
she had some savings worth around three weeks of her gross salary. So it follows that the 
PPI would have lasted for longer than her existing means.
I accept that Mrs J had a medical condition and that she may have run into difficulty if 
shed tried to make a claim in respect of it. But Mrs J told us that her condition was well-
controlled and she had never taken any time off work because of it. With that in mind, I dont 
think Mrs J would have reasonably thought her medical condition would have stopped her 
from working. I dont think her diagnosis made the recommendation of PPI unsuitable.
I havent seen anything unusual about Mrs Js wider circumstances that would have 
stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. I have to stress 
that Mrs Js mortgage was secured on her home and so the consequences if she fell behind 
with her repayments could have been significant. On balance, Im provisionally satisfied that 
the recommendation Santander made was suitable for Mrs Js circumstances.
Even so, Santander still had to give Mrs J enough information about the PPI so she 
could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. I accept its possible that Santander didnt tell Mrs J everything 
it should have done about the cover. But Ive set out above how the PPI could have 
been helpful to Mrs J at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she 
was out of work  and in fact it was useful because Mrs J was able to claim on the policy 
three times.I dont think shed have changed her mind about buying the PPI cover even if 
Santander had given her more or better information.
It follows then that Im provisionally satisfied that PPI wasnt mis-sold, which 
means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. However, Santander 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because it should have told Mrs J about the high 
level of commission and profit share it received (more than 50% of the PPI premium). It was 
unfair for Santander not to disclose that to her. To put that right, I understand it has paid 
back the amount of commission and profit share it received that was about 50% of the PPI 
premium. And I think that is a fair way to settle this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So for the reasons set out above, I find that PPI wasnt mis-sold and the 
offer Santander made to refund some of the commission it received is a fair way to settle this 
complaint. I dont require Santander to take any further action in this matter. 
My final decision 
The PPI policy was not mis-sold  so Santander UK plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI. But it does have to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18July2020.Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman