DRN-3123257
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt refunded them the full 
amount they lost to an authorised push payment (APP) email intercept scam, when 
purchasing a property.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote to HSBC 
upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so I 
dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr and Mrs B were in the process of purchasing a property. A deposit of £56,500 on 
12 March 2020 was paid, and then on 16 March 2020 Mr B received an email from 
whom he believed was their conveyancer regarding the progression of the property 
purchase. The email advised that the purchase could progress and provided bank 
details for where the payment should be made to.
Mr B forwarded the email to Mrs B who wrote the bank details down and then 
attended a branch on 18 March 2020. Mrs B made a payment of £528,402.08.
Unbeknown to Mr and Mrs B, the email had in fact been sent by a fraudster who was 
impersonating Mr and Mrs Bs conveyancer. So Mr and Mrs B had made the 
payment to an account controlled by the fraudster. 
The scam was uncovered on 23 March 2020, when Mr and Mrs B were in contact 
with their genuine conveyancer.
Mr and Mrs B subsequently contacted HSBC to report the matter.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). 
This is a voluntary code HSBC has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that have 
fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances.
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that:
 
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
HSBC reviewed the matter. It accepted that it could have done more to prevent the loss 
when the payment was made but felt Mr and Mrs B should share some responsibility for the 
loss, as it considered they hadnt done enough to check the legitimacy of whom they were 
paying.
HSBC refunded Mr and Mrs B two thirds (66.6%) of their loss. 
It also tried to recover the money, but no funds remained in the recipient account.
 
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service as they werent happy with HSBCs 
response. 
One of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld.
 
Our investigator found Mr and Mrs B had met their requisite level of care under the CRM 
Code, and had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment. They considered 
Mr and Mrs B were expecting to make the payment, the email address had only a subtle 
difference with an O instead of an A - which they considered wasnt obvious and the email 
subject header was near identical to that of the emails sent by the genuine conveyancer. 
And while the account name was listed as L3 Project Management  the email had 
explained that this was a client care account.
The investigator also said given the amount, and that the payment took place in branch, 
HSBC should have asked some probing questions about the payment and had it done  the 
scam would most likely have come to light, and the loss could have been prevented.  
Our investigator thought HSBC should fully reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the remaining 
outstanding amount. 
Our investigator also considered that Mr and Mrs B incurred further losses which they 
reasonably wouldnt have incurred had the fraud been prevented. Mr and Mrs B, as they had 
paid a deposit of £56,500  which they didnt want to lose, continued with the property 
purchase. Mr and Mrs B used the funds that HSBC had returned (the two thirds) and utilised 
some additional cash funds they had and took out a mortgage of £152,000 in order to 
proceed.
So our investigator thought that HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs B fair compensation by:
refunding the remaining outstanding amount lost as a result of the fraud; 
paying 8% simple interest on the cash amount Mr and Mrs B used, that they 
wouldnt have had to, in order to go ahead with the property purchase;
refund the financial losses incurred in taking out a mortgage that they 
wouldnt have had to by:
orefunding any fees associated with taking out the mortgage,
orefunding any interest payments made on the mortgage,
orefunding the subsequent costs in winding down the mortgage (early 
repayment charges etc);
paying £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 6 September 2021 with a deadline 
for responding of 20 September 2021. That deadline has passed, and HSBC has still failed 
to respond. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
  
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from HSBC to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and/or to take account of HSBCs failure to reply to the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM Code, Mr and Mrs B ought to have been fully 
reimbursed when they notified HSBC of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or 
not they met their requisite level of care. I believe they did, for substantively the same 
reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs B to have received a full refund at the time. I also consider HSBC could have 
reasonably done more to prevent the loss at the time Mrs B made the payment and as a 
result Mr and Mrs B incurred further losses that they wouldnt reasonably have incurred 
which need to be taken into account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr and Mrs B ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded under the CRM Code.
 
I therefore direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B:
the remaining money they lost  within 28 days of receiving notification of their 
acceptance of my final decision;
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on the cash amount Mr and Mrs B used 
towards the subsequent property purchase (less any tax properly deductible). This 
interest amount should be paid from the date the cash funds were used, until the 
date of settlement;
refund the additional financial losses Mr and Mrs B incurred in taking out a mortgage 
that they wouldnt reasonably have had to by:
orefunding any fees associated with taking out the mortgage,
orefunding any interest payments made on the mortgage,
orefunding the subsequent costs in winding down the mortgage (early 
repayment charges etc) *£500 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of their acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue at the same rate until payment.
*Mr and Mrs B should provide HSBC UK Bank Plc with evidence of the costs they incurred.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman