DRN-1057710
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr D was given two loans by Uncle Buck, in July 2018 and January 2019. Both loans were 
for £500 and repayable in six monthly instalments. Mr D successfully repaid the first loan, 
but has faced problems repaying the second loan. A balance remained outstanding on that 
loan at the time he made his complaint.
Mr D's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didn't think it had been 
reasonable for Uncle Buck to give either loan to Mr D. So he asked Uncle Buck to pay Mr D 
some compensation.
Uncle Buck didn't agree with that assessment. But as a gesture of goodwill it offered to write 
off Mr D's outstanding balance on the second loan. Mr D didn't accept that offer. So, as the 
complaint hasn't been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr D accepts my decision it is legally binding 
on both parties. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Uncle Buck did some checks before it lent to Mr D. It asked him for details of his income, 
and his normal expenditure. It also checked Mr D's credit file before agreeing each loan and 
I will consider the results of those credit checks later in this decision.
Each of Mr Ds loans was repayable over a six month period. So the amounts that Mr D 
needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But of 
course he was committing to making those repayments over a far longer period.
The repayments that Mr D needed to make appeared to be affordable based on what he'd 
said about his disposable income. But I think the results of the credit check should have 
caused serious concerns to Uncle Buck.
The credit check that Uncle Buck performed before the first loan showed that Mr D had a 
significant number of other short term loans outstanding with other lenders. These were 
loans that would need to be repaid at the same time as his borrowing from Uncle Buck. The 
regulator has explained that short term loans should be considered to be a short term 
solution to temporary cash flow problems. I don't think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck to 
consider that a consumer with so many other outstanding short term loans could be 
described to be facing a temporary cash flow problem. Instead I think that amount of 
outstanding borrowing should have indicated to Uncle Buck that Mr D was facing serious 
problems managing his money.
So I don't think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck to give the first loan to Mr D. And I think the 
same applies to the second loan he took in January 2019. Uncle Buck once again performed 
a credit check at that time. And the results from that check showed little improvement in Mr 
D's financial circumstances. He was still borrowing extensively from other short term lenders 
and showing clear signs that his finances were out of control.
So I don't think Uncle Buck should have agreed to give either loan to Mr D. Uncle Buck 
needs to pay Mr D some compensation.
 
 
Putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should have agreed to give either loan to Mr D. So Uncle Buck 
should;refund all the interest and charges Mr D paid on loan 1. 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat any payments 
Mr D has made towards this loan as being payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Ds loan 2 account as Ive directed results in Mr D effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Uncle Buck should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
if reworking Mr Ds loan 2 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Uncle Buck can use the total refund for loan 1 (after the deduction of tax) to offset 
this. And if there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind Uncle Buck that 
it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr D.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to loans 1 
and 2
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle Buck 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman