DRN-2362191
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V have complained about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited sold and
administered their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs V was a member of a group private medical insurance policy, underwritten by AXA, and
through which her husband, Mr V, was also covered.
In June 2019, Mrs V contacted AXA because she was leaving the group scheme. She
wanted to continue cover with AXA under an individual policy. After speaking to AXAs
representative, Mrs V agreed to take out an individual policy covering her and her husband
and underwritten on a continued medical exclusions basis. The new policy, although still
underwritten by AXA, was branded, and administered on AXAs behalf, by a different
company which Ill call H. (For the purposes of convenience, I have referred only to AXA in
this decision even if the people in question were working for H).
In July 2019, Mr V contacted AXA to say his GP had referred him to a particular
dermatologist for a skin issue. He asked AXA to provide authorisation for this. He also
mentioned that he had been referred to a psychiatrist for mental health issues. AXA said it
would cover a consultation with a dermatologist but explained that the particular specialist
and hospital werent on the policys fully approved list, meaning that it would meet only 60%
of the treatment cost. Mr V was unhappy at this. He passed the telephone to Mrs V who
complained that she had been led to believe the cover under this policy was the same as
under her previous policy and that full cover would be provided for her husbands treatment.
AXA agreed to look into the complaint.
A few days later, Mrs V sent an email to AXA seeking authorisation for a specialist
consultation concerning a gynaecological condition. She provided a referral letter from a
push doctor (an online GP service). AXA emailed Mrs V saying that it couldnt accept
referrals from a push doctor and that she should obtain a referral from her own GP. It said
once shed obtained this referral, and had provided further information, it would be able to
assess the eligibility of the claim.
On 11 September 2019, AXA issued a final response letter to Mr V not upholding his
complaint. It said that it had been correct to advise that full cover wasnt available for the
particular specialist and hospital where he planned to receive treatment. It said it was
satisfied this restriction on cover had been explained to Mrs V during the sales call.
The next day, Mr V called AXA to seek authorisation for psychiatric treatment and referred to
treatment hed received which had been authorised under his previous policy. The adviser
said that he couldnt access details of Mr Vs previous treatment and so would need to set up
a new claim. Mr V ended the call without providing AXA with further details of his planned
treatment.
On 16 September 2019, Mr V called AXA and complained again about the sale of the policy.
On 17 September 2019, Mrs V called AXA. She cancelled the policy. She complained that
the policy hadnt provided uninterrupted cover as she had been promised and that claims
had been declined. She said that she had made claims following push doctor referrals under
her previous policy and hadnt been told that this wouldnt be allowed under the new policy.
She considered the policy was no use to either her or her husband and had been mis-sold.
AXA issued another final response letter, again not upholding the complaint. It was satisfied
the sale had been carried out properly and that it had dealt with Mr and Mrs Vs claims in an
appropriate way.
Mr and Mrs V were unhappy with AXAs response. They referred their complaint to us. They
wanted to receive a complete refund of the premiums they had paid for the policy.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
Ive listened to the sales call. The representative outlined the different types of underwriting
which were available. Mrs V chose to have continued medical exclusions, explaining that her
husband was in the middle of treatment for his foot and was due to have a follow-up
consultation following surgery; she wanted this to be covered. After asking Mrs V questions
about her and her husbands medical history, the representative outlined the options for
cover. Mrs V chose not to have access to the full range of hospitals and specialists but to
instead take a cheaper policy which had a more limited list of available hospitals and
specialists. The representative checked and confirmed that Mr Vs treating consultant for his
foot problem was currently on the list of covered specialists. Mrs V chose to have an excess
of £500 per person per policy year. Overall, Im satisfied that the representative accurately
set out the terms of the cover and enabled Mrs V to make an informed decision as to
whether to take out the policy.
The representative made clear that the policy, although underwritten by AXA, was operated
by H. The representative did not necessarily make clear that H would not have direct access
to AXAs claim records but I dont consider that this was an important point which was likely
to have affected Mrs Vs decision to take out the policy.
Mr Vs claim for his foot treatment transferred to the new policy as AXA had promised. Mr V
submitted invoices for consultations, albeit that AXA didnt have to pay these because the
policy excess of £500 hadnt been reached. Im satisfied this was fair.
With regard to Mr Vs claim for his dermatology referral, AXAs adviser provided
authorisation for this but explained that the particular specialist wasnt on his policy list and
so only 60% of the cost would be met. She offered to find a dermatologist for whom full
cover would be provided. Im satisfied that the adviser gave correct information and dealt
with the claim appropriately. I dont see why Mr and Mrs V should have expected to receive
full cover in the circumstances.
With regard to Mrs Vs claim for a gynaecological referral, I note the policy states that the
member should ask your GP for a referral; it doesnt give any indication that a push doctor
may instead be used. Furthermore, AXA has provided evidence to show that Mrs Vs
previous policy had a similar requirement and that Mrs V was told that a push doctor referral
wasnt acceptable when she tried to make a claim under that policy in November 2018. I 
therefore consider that AXAs request for Mrs V to obtain a referral from her own GP was
reasonable and should not have come as a surprise to her.
Furthermore, the policy makes clear that before accepting a claim, additional information
may sometimes be sought from the members GP and I note that this was also mentioned toMrs V in the sales call. I therefore consider it was reasonable for AXA to seek such
information in this case to make sure correct information about her medical history had been
given by Mrs V at the time of sale, given that the claim was little more than a month following
the start of the policy.
With regard to Mr Vs request for authorisation of his mental health treatment, I note that this
followed on from treatment he was already receiving and which had been authorised under
his previous policy. Unfortunately, the person he spoke to at AXA was unable to access
Mr Vs claims history. He therefore asked Mr V to provide further details. While Mr V may
have found this frustrating, I dont consider AXAs request was unreasonable. This
information would have enabled AXA to accept Mr Vs claim. Unfortunately, Mr V was
unwilling to provide such details over the course of several telephone conversations. AXA
eventually confirmed from internal records that the claim was eligible and tried to contact
Mr V to let him know but he didnt respond to its requests to get in touch. However, I cant
hold AXA responsible for that.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs V was given sufficient information at the time of sale to make
an informed choice as to whether to take out the policy. AXA dealt with the subsequent
claims from Mr and Mrs V in an appropriate way and in accordance with the terms of the
policy, albeit I appreciate Mr Vs frustration that it was unable to provide immediate
authorisation for his continued mental health treatment. However, I dont consider that AXA
misled Mrs V about this at the time of sale and I consider that any failure to subsequently
obtain authorisation was down to Mr V rather than failings on the part of AXA. Im sorry that
Mr and Mrs V didnt derive the benefit from the policy for which they may have hoped, but I
see no reasonable grounds for saying they should be awarded a refund of premiums.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs V didnt accept my provisional decision. Mrs V said I hadnt addressed her 
complaint that AXAs processes were not equipped to deal with people such as her husband 
who had mental health issues. She said AXA had forced Mr V to repeatedly explain his 
traumas before he could access treatment to which he was entitled. She said this had 
caused Mr V distress and had adversely affected his mental health.  
AXA accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explain in my provisional decision that when Mr V rang to seek authorisation of his mental 
health treatment, AXAs adviser was unable to access his claims history under the previous 
policy and so asked for further details. I recognise that Mr V found this upsetting and 
I sympathise with him. However, I dont consider it was an unreasonable request from AXA 
and Im satisfied that the advisers tone was appropriate. After AXA eventually established 
that Mr Vs claim was eligible without needing to ask him questions, it tried to let him know of 
its decision but he didnt respond to its requests to get in touch.
It is unfortunate that Mr V found this whole process distressing. However, I consider that 
AXA was not deliberately seeking to put barriers in the way of Mr V accessing treatment. 
Instead, I consider it was reasonable in its handling of his claim.Ive already explained in my provisional decision why I consider that AXA acted fairly and 
reasonably in respect of the other matters about which Mr and Mrs V complained and they 
have not challenged these findings.
In light of this, and the fact that AXA has accepted my provisional decision, Im satisfied that 
my provisional decision should stand.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman