DRN-2807888
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) gave her ex-husband online access to her 
sole bank account causing her inconvenience and anxiety. She also says BoS was unhelpful 
in removing her from a joint account with her ex-husband. She would like to be compensated 
for the trouble and upset suffered. 
What happened
Mrs W and her ex-husband had a joint account with online banking. Mrs W had opened an 
account in her name only and wanted to be removed from the joint account. BoS said this 
wasnt possible as the account was overdrawn. Mrs W says her ex-husband increased the 
overdraft without her knowledge and BoS shouldnt have allowed this. Subsequently he 
cleared the overdraft and Mrs W was removed from this account.
Mrs W says her ex-husband told her hed seen details of her sole account when logging into 
his own online banking. He said he knew how much income she was receiving, and that he 
was no longer going to pay the maintenance agreed for their child. 
Mrs W complained to BoS. It accepted its service had been poor over issues with the joint 
account and offered her £250 in compensation for this. But it said it hadnt given her ex-
husband access to her sole account and that he must have been aware of her login details. 
Mrs W said he didnt have her login details and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt uphold the complaint.
He said BoS accepted there had been poor service over the joint account but it had removed 
Mrs W once the account was back in credit. He said the offer of £250 in compensation for 
the inconvenience caused by the poor service was fair. But he said there was no evidence 
that BoS had directly provided Mrs Ws ex-husband with access to her sole account. And, 
without such evidence he couldnt say it had treated her unfairly.
Mrs W said her ex-husband would write to confirm hed been able to access her sole 
account when logging onto his own account details. Our investigator said this wouldnt 
provide additional evidence and he couldnt change his view without further evidence. 
As Mrs W doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding the complaint in part but wont be asking BoS to do any more 
than it has already offered. Ill explain why.
There are two aspects to Mrs Ws complaint, Ive considered them in turn.
The Joint Account
I can see why this issue would have caused Mrs W concern, particularly when the overdraft 
limit was increased without her knowledge. Its usual in the terms and conditions of a joint 
account for all account holders to be liable for any overdraft. And banks are often unwilling to 
remove an account holder if there is an outstanding overdraft and I dont think BoS acted 
unfairly in respect of this aspect. However, as BoS acknowledges I think it could have been 
more helpful and restricted the account until things were sorted out. 
Fortunately, this issue has been resolved, with Mrs W being removed from the account. I 
think the £250 compensation BoS has offered for the trouble and upset caused by the 
service issues is reasonable. It is in keeping with awards our service would make in similar 
circumstances, so I think this offer is a fair resolution to this part of the complaint.
Accessing the sole account
I havent seen anything that suggests BoS gave Mrs Ws ex-husband details to access her 
online account, or that he could see her account details when logging on to his own account. 
BoS records show a conversation with Mrs W on 27 November 2020. Placing a restriction 
on the joint account is discussed along with Mrs Ws online account details. Mrs W is 
advised she has two online profiles. Profile one was to be de-registered with her accounts to 
become accessible only on profile two.
The call handler discusses resetting passwords and memorable information for profile two. 
Mrs W says: I cant as my phone has died. Mrs W asks if her ex-husband will be able to 
see her personal accounts. The call handler says:
He wont be able unless he has your login details
The notes go on to say Mrs W didnt reset the login details of profile two but did change them 
for profile one, which was to be de-registered. Its unfortunate that Mrs Ws mobile ran out of 
charge during the call, if it hadnt, I think the login details for profile two would have been 
changed at the time and this might have prevented the problem. Thats unfortunate, but not 
something itd be fair for me to say that BoS can be held liable for.
The records show that subsequently several attempts were made to re-register profile one. 
And profile two was logged into from a different IP address rather than through Mrs Ws 
banking app. While I cant know for sure how this happened, on balance of the evidence I 
have, it does seem more likely than not that if Mrs Ws ex-husband obtained information 
about her account, it was through logging on to her profile with passwords he already had or 
had correctly guessed, rather than seeing them when logging on to his own account. 
I can see how distressing the whole matter has been for Mrs W. But I dont think BoS made 
an error here and it hasnt treated her unreasonably, so I wont be asking it to do anything 
further regarding this aspect of her complaint. I think it has made a fair offer of £250 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the issues with the joint account and it 
should now pay this to Mrs W if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part against Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Bank of Scotland has already made an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint relating to 
the joint account and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So, my decision is that Bank of Scotland should pay £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman