DRN-3861070
The complaint and what happened
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund £23,500 he 
lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here 
again. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The first question I need to consider in any case involving an investment scam is to 
determine, so far as is reasonably possible, whether the complainant has in fact been 
scammed, rather than simply losing money to a high-risk investment. This is 
important because banks (and other payment service providers) only have a duty to 
protect customers from the risk of financial loss due to fraud. This duty to intervene 
isnt triggered where payments are made to a legitimate investment. It is my 
understanding that Mr B reported the payments as fraudulent only after the individual 
who his dealings were with died, leaving Mr B without his capital and the promised 
returns. Not much is known about this investment opportunity, such as whether it 
was just an individual acting alone or if they represented a firm. From the limited 
information available, like the trade notes Mr B received and the unrealistic returns 
he was promised, I think it is more likely than not that Mr B was scammed. 
The transactions in dispute were authorised by Mr B using his legitimate security 
credentials. Under the relevant regulations, hes considered liable for the loss  even 
if he was duped into making the payments  unless theres evidence that NatWest 
could and should reasonably have done more to protect him against the risk of fraud 
and scams and that this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
I dont consider the first disputed payment of £500 to be so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that I think NatWest ought to have intervened. But the second 
payment, for £16,000, was out of character for Mr Bs general account activity. 
NatWest has said that it discussed this in-branch payment with Mr B before releasing 
it. Ive seen a copy of the checklist that was completed at the time, and I can see that 
Mr B was asked: whether he was making the payment as a result of being advised 
either by the bank or the police that his account unsafe; whether he was cold called; 
was the request for funds from someone he hadnt met face to face. Mr B was also 
asked to provide a reason for the payment, and he confirmed that he was sending 
money for an investment. The checklist, which is signed and countersigned by 
NatWest staff, confirms that a potential scam discussion also took place before the 
payment was released. I know Mr B disputes a scam conversation happened, but 
contemporaneous evidence suggests otherwise. 
While Im satisfied that NatWest made general enquiries about whether Mr B was 
cold called or asked to transfer money to keep his money safe, Im not persuaded 
that it sufficiently probed him about the investment opportunity when he explained the 
reason for the payment. While the bank had no duty to protect Mr B from a bad 
bargain or give investment advice, it could have made further enquiries about it. For 
instance, NatWest could have asked him how he came to know about the investment 
opportunity  especially as Mr B was making multiple payments in relation to it. 
I cant see that hed been given a reason to think he had to hide this information from 
his bank. Neither had he been coached to tell them something different. Had 
NatWest probed further, the scam warning it gave him could have been more specific 
to investment-related scams. 
 
But that isnt the end of the matter. Causation is a critical determinative factor in 
every scam case. It isnt enough that a payment service provider like NatWest failed 
to act unfairly or unreasonably; its acts or omissions must be the immediate and 
effective cause of losses that were reasonably foreseeable at the time of the breach. 
I cant know for certain what would have happened if NatWest had questioned Mr B 
along the lines Ive mentioned. In such situations, I reach my conclusions not based 
on mere possibilities but rather on what I find most probable to have happened in the 
circumstances. In other words, I make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  so what I consider most likely to have happened considering the 
evidence and wider circumstances of the case. 
Having carefully thought about this, Im not convinced that an intervention along the 
lines Ive mentioned would have made a difference to Mr Bs decision-making. Hes 
told us that one of his closest friends had introduced him to this investment 
opportunity and had good things to say about it. Also, not only had Mr B spoken to 
the individual who his dealings were with, but hed also met them in person. During a 
subsequent call with the bank, Mr B said that all of this made the investment 
opportunity seem legitimate. Having listened to the call, I note that even though Mr B 
didnt fully know what his money was being invested in, he didnt seem to mind. 
Under the circumstances, I find that Mr B was clearly taken in by the scam. And Im 
not convinced that a more specific warning by NatWest would have broken the spell 
he was under.    
I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr B. I fully acknowledge 
that theres a lot of money involved here. Despite my natural sympathy for the situation in 
which Mr B finds himself, for the reasons given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold NatWest 
responsible for his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman