DRN-1686275
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1996 with 
a flexible loan. Ms M says The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. For simplicity, I 
will refer to the business as The Co-op for much of the rest of this decision.
background
Ms M took out PPI with a flexible loan in March 1996. The PPI policy included life cover, 
critical illness cover, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ms case. 
In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
After reviewing all the information provided in this complaint, I am not upholding Ms Ms 
complaint. I explain why below.
Ms M thinks the PPI was sold on the telephone. But to get the credit and the cover Ms M 
needed to complete an application form. To get the PPI Ms M had a tick a box for it. The 
form said, Please tick box if you would like to take advantage of Payment Protection Plan. 
The Bank strongly recommends this valuable cover. The language is of something being 
offered. So, The Co-op had to secure Ms Ms agreement to the PPI before putting it in place 
and it seems that it did so, as the box for PPI was ticked. Had Ms M not wanted the cover 
she could have left the box unticked. So, it also seems most likely that Ms M agreed to the 
cover knowing she had a choice about so doing. 
The parties think that advice was given. Our adjudicator thought that advice wasnt given. 
Whilst the application form contains the wording strongly recommends, this is a general 
recommendation. And theres no evidence from the time of the sale of a bespoke 
recommendation being made to Ms M, based on her personal circumstances. So, it seems 
most likely that The Co-op didnt recommend that Ms M take the PPI, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. Instead The Co-op had to provide information that was clear and 
not misleading so that Ms M could decide about the policy for herself. 
Its possible the information The Co-op gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been - including the information about the cost of the policy. But based on what I know about Ms Ms circumstances, I dont think better information would have stopped her from 
buying it.
I say this because Ms M was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Ms M at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions. I say this whilst noting that 
Ms M was self-employed at the time of the sale. The Co-op has not been able to provide us 
with a copy of the policy documentation from the time of the sale. But The Co-op has 
provided a copy of a policy document from the year after the sale. I think that, most likely, 
the policy details would have been similar to those that applied at the time of the sale. The 
terms that applied to the self-employed making an unemployment claim were not onerous.  
And I think Ms M could have found the policy useful. I say this because Ms M told us she 
had no sick pay if she couldnt work, as she was self-employed. And Ms M told us she had 
no other means she could have relied on if anything went wrong. The policy could have paid 
3% of the balance until the claim stopped or for up to 24 months. And the PPI would also 
have provided cover if Ms M lost her job. So, having considered all of this, I think the policy 
could have been useful to her. 
So I dont think that Ms M lost out as a result of anything The Co-op might have done wrong. 
my final decision
I have decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman