DRN-3434002
The complaint
Miss S complains about the circumstances in which she became a guarantor for a loan with 
UK Credit Limited.
What happened
Miss S was a guarantor on a £5,000 loan from UK Credit. It was taken out on 25 September 
2017 and the repayments were £263.98 for 36 months. The loan was repaid in March 2021.
Miss S says that she was coerced into agreeing to be a guarantor on the loan for her ex-
partner. She says she was not in control of her own finances and her ex-partner took most of 
her income and spent heavily on her credit cards. Miss S adds that she gave her ex-partner 
money to repay the loan but that he didnt pass it on to UK Credit and she now has a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) in her name. She says she is now having to repay multiple debts 
caused by her ex-partner and is severely depressed.
UK Credit says it listened to the relevant call and could find no obvious signs that Miss S had 
been coerced into acting as guarantor. It says, having reviewed the evidence, it was satisfied 
Miss S made payments to the borrower which she intended for him to use to repay the UK 
Credit loan. However, it says, the funds did not reach the loan account and, as such, it 
cannot remove the CCJ or release Miss S as guarantor for the account balance.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt satisfied UK 
Credits checks went far enough as it didnt verify Miss Ss income or expenditure. She 
considered the existing credit commitments, as shown on her credit file, indicated further 
repayments would be unsustainable though and so it was likely that proportionate checks 
would have shown the lending was irresponsible.
Our investigator also considered whether UK Credit should have been aware that Miss S 
may have been pressured into becoming a guarantor. Although she didnt doubt Miss Ss 
relationship with the borrower was extremely difficult, she could not conclude UK Credit 
should have recognised she may have been forced to act as guarantor. She recommended 
that UK Credit should release Miss S from any obligations she has under the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement, and terminate it, refund any repayments Miss S has made towards the 
loan (plus 8%) and remove any information recorded on Miss Ss credit file due to the loan.
UK Credit responded to say, in summary, that it had not been given an opportunity to review 
the loans affordability. It said it could not agree that the credit commitments shown on 
Miss Ss credit file indicated further borrowing was unsustainable. It said neither the monthly 
repayments, nor the credit utilisation suggested Miss S was in financial difficulties, especially 
considering she lived at home with no rental costs. It added that Miss S repaid three of her 
credit card accounts early in 2018 and that, in 2019, the courts assessed Miss Ss financial 
circumstances and deemed she could pay £175 per month towards the loan. Given she had 
additional loans by then, UK Credit concluded that £236.98 would have been affordable to 
her in 2017. Finally, it says there was evidence that substantial payments were being made 
into a savings account.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Miss S and to UK Credit on 17 March 2022. Ive 
summarised my findings:
I was not satisfied that the checks carried out by UK Credit went far enough because:
oThe loan was over a term of 36 months and UK Credit needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
oUK Credits credit check showed that three of Miss Ss four active credit cards 
had been taken out in the last four months;
oMiss S told UK Credit on the call that, because she lived with her parents, she 
paid no rent and had no other expenditure, but I couldnt see UK Credit 
verified this information.
Miss S provided bank statements from the time which showed:
oHer income, at £3,000 per month, was in line with the figures UK Credit used 
in its analysis;
oShe had acted as guarantor on two loans earlier in September 2017, for which 
the combined repayments were around £500 per month;
oMiss S had direct debits set up to pay a total of £350 to three of the credit 
cards each month;
oShe was repaying the fourth credit card in full each month at around £500;
oA mobile phone was costing about £20 per month;
oAside from a small amount of expenditure on travel, Miss Ss bank statements 
showed no other regular expenditure on living costs;
oThere were multiple transfers to a sole savings account.
Taking everything into account, I considered it likely that UK Credit would have found 
Miss S could have sustainably repaid the loan even if it had carried out proportionate 
checks because:
oMiss S was paying significantly more than the minimum amount on her credit 
cards  based on her balances at the time, her minimum commitment to 
repayments on her cards was about £160, compared with the £850 she was 
paying;
oThe bank statements confirmed that Miss S appeared to have very few living 
costs, as she had stated in the call;
oAlthough many of the transfers were to Miss Ss ex-partners account, there 
were also regular payments into a separate sole savings account.
I was satisfied, therefore, that not only did Miss S have sufficient disposable income to repay 
the guarantor loans, if required, she could also adjust her credit card repayments and was 
likely to have access to savings.I acknowledged Miss S said she was coerced into taking multiple loans by her ex-partner but 
having reviewed all the evidence I could see the vast majority of those loans were taken 
after the UK Credit loan. The loan statement showed Miss S made her first repayment on the 
loan in February 2018, and then began making repayments regularly from November 2019. I 
accepted the court decided she could only afford to repay £175 per month, but, by then, she 
had multiple other loans for which she needed to make repayments. So I couldnt conclude 
that meant the full repayment was unaffordable to her in September 2017.
That said, I did not doubt Miss S when she said she was coerced into agreeing to the UK 
Credit loan, amongst others. Even though I found that the loan was sustainably affordable to 
her, I must decide whether UK Credit acted responsibly by approving it given her 
circumstances. Having listened to the call between Miss S and UK Credit at the time of the 
lending, I didnt consider there was anything in the conversation that should have alerted UK 
Credit to Miss Ss situation.
In summary, although I had every sympathy for Miss Ss situation, my provisional decision  
was that I didnt find it was irresponsible for UK Credit to have accepted her as a guarantor 
on the loan and I could not conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
Neither Miss S, nor UK Credit, responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any additional information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman