DRN-3661165
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) declined his 
theft claim after his mobility scooter was stolen.
What happened
Mr M relies on a mobility scooter to get around.  He insured the scooter with Watford.
In spring 2022, Mr M contacted Watford to make a claim.  He told them his scooter had been 
stolen from his garden overnight.  He said the scooter had been secured to the wall of his 
home using a cable lock fed through a Loqbox wall anchor.  And he said this had been 
pulled away from the wall to take the scooter.
Watford asked Mr M to send them photos of the area where the scooter was kept, including 
a photo of the Loqbox wall anchor.  Mr M supplied a photo, showing the wall anchor 
attached to the wall.  He told Watford this had been re-attached by his local authority shortly 
after the theft (and before Watford requested a photo).  And he said the authority had 
installed a new gatepost for better security of the garden.
Watford asked Mr M to provide a receipt or other written confirmation of the repairs the local 
authority had done.  Mr M said hed not been given anything.  So Watford advised him theyd 
contact the authority directly for the information they needed.
The local authority confirmed to Watford theyd not repaired the Loqbox wall anchor at any 
point.  And they confirmed they had installed a new gatepost at Mr Ms request to make it 
easier to get his scooter in and out of the garden, adjusted the existing bolt and latch and 
added a new lock.  But the local authority said all of this work had been done before the 
theft.    
Once theyd received and considered this information alongside everything Mr M had told 
them, Watford declined his claim on the basis there was no evidence to show the scooter 
had been locked up or that force had been used to take it.
Mr M complained.  Watford considered the complaint but didnt change their opinion.  They 
explained to Mr M that the policy excludes cover for theft of an unattended scooter, unless it 
is secured to an immovable object from which it was forcibly removed.  
Watford said that there was no evidence force had been used to remove the scooter from 
the Loqbox.  And, in light of what Mr M had told them about the circumstances of the theft, 
they cancelled his policy and refunded him the balance of his premium.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Watfords response and brought his complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Watford didnt need to do any more to resolve the 
complaint.  He explained policies dont cover every set of circumstances and businesses can 
apply exclusions.  And he was satisfied that Watford had  after investigating what theyd 
been told and seeking confirmation from the local authority  applied the exclusion fairly.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Its clear being without his scooter has had a significant impact on Mr Ms life.  Im sorry 
about that.  But my role is to decide whether Watford have decided his claim in line with the 
terms of his policy.  I can only decide they should look at the claim again, or decide it 
differently, if I dont think theyve done that.
Ive read the policy documentation Mr M received when he took the policy out.  The covering 
letter says it was sold on a non-advised basis.  That means its Mr Ms responsibility to read 
what Watford sent him and make sure it suited his needs.
The policy provides cover for loss or damage to the scooter resulting from theft, up to the 
sum insured.  But there are a number of exclusions.  The relevant section excludes cover 
for:
Theft of the Insured Item(s) whilst left unattended for more than 1 hour unless secured to an 
Immovable Object by a padlock and chain or whilst in a locked and secure building. Theft 
must be Forcible. 
This wording appears not only in the policy document, but also in the Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) which summarises key points of, and exclusions from, the 
cover.  So Im satisfied it was brought to Mr Ms attention.
The scooter was stolen overnight  so had been unattended for more than an hour.  But    
Mr M said he secured it to an immovable object  the Loqbox.  However, the exclusion also 
requires the theft to be forcible  which is defined in the policy as:
Forcible: Entry evidenced by visible damage to the fabric of the building at the point of entry; 
or damage caused to an Immovable Object or padlock & chain.
Its clear the information Watford asked Mr M for about the damage to the Loqbox was to 
establish whether the scooter had been taken forcibly.  And, while Mr M said the Loqbox had 
been damaged and repaired by the local authority, the local authority said theyd never 
repaired it.  In addition, the photo Mr M provided of the Loqbox showed it to be undamaged.
On that basis I think it was reasonable for Watford to conclude the evidence didnt show the 
theft was forcible.  That means it was fair for them to decline the claim on the basis it fell 
within one of the policy exclusions.  And so I dont think they need to do any more to resolve 
Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman