DRN-2063149
The complaint
Mr P complains that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk acted irresponsibly when 
lending to him. 
What happened
In January 2019, Savvy loaned £1,250 to Mr P and he signed an agreement to repay this 
loan in fifteen monthly instalments. In the event, Mr P wasnt able to repay the loan as 
agreed.
Mr P feels that Savvy shouldnt have provided him with this loan. Mr P told us that if Savvy 
had done proper checks it wouldve seen that it wasnt likely to be affordable for him.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ps complaint. She said that proportionate checks would most 
likely have shown Mr P was frequently relying on his overdraft facility, hed been borrowing 
from other payday lenders and spending on gambling in the months running up to January 
2019 when he applied to Savvy for this loan. Our adjudicator felt that taking all these things 
together into account, Savvy shouldve realised it was unlikely that Mr P would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way.
So our adjudicator said Savvy shouldnt have provided the loan and she gave detailed 
directions setting out what she thought Savvy should do to put things right for Mr P. 
It looks like Mr P is happy to accept the adjudicators recommendation for settling this 
complaint.
Savvy disagreed with our adjudicator. It mainly said that it wasnt reasonable to reject a loan 
application just because someone had an overdraft at the bank. It told us that it did all the 
proper affordability checks, including asking Mr P some detailed extra questions over the 
phone. Savvy says the loan looked affordable for Mr P.
Savvy has asked for a review so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Savvy was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Savvy has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr P. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Savvy what he normally spent each month. And Savvy also 
carried out checks on Mr Ps credit file and asked him for some additional information about 
loans not reflected on his credit file. Mr P mentioned having one outstanding loan and so 
Savvy took this information into account. Savvy says it worked out that the loan it provided 
shouldve been affordable for Mr P. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Savvy to provide this loan to Mr P. 
Heres why I say this.
Although the loan mightve looked affordable on the figures Mr P gave and the information 
Savvy had gathered about his financial circumstances, I think that Savvy shouldve carried 
out more thorough checks into Mr Ps financial situation before agreeing to lend such a 
substantial loan over this length of time.  
I think Savvy should have taken steps to verify what Mr P was saying about his financial 
circumstances and not just relied on what he said. Savvy hasnt shown me it did this. So 
I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend to Mr P. Mr P has provided a credit report and some bank statements so Ive looked through these to 
see what Savvy was likely to have found out as I think these give a reasonable picture of 
Mr Ps finances at the time. And had Savvy looked in more depth at Mr Ps finances it would 
likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. As well as 
having at least one currently outstanding short-term loan already, I think it would have also 
learned that in fact Mr P had an established record of taking out short term high cost loans 
with other lenders of this sort of credit. He was substantially overdrawn at the bank (and had 
been for a while). And he was regularly spending significant amounts on what appeared to 
be gambling transactions. 
I've taken into account everything Savvy has said in response to our adjudicators opinion, 
but this doesnt affect what I think about this complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, 
I think that if Savvy had done proportionate checks before lending, it wouldve likely seen 
information that shouldve led Savvy to decline Mr Ps loan application in January 2019. 
So I dont think it was reasonable for Savvy to think that it was likely Mr P would be able 
sustainably to repay his borrowing  and this means it shouldnt have provided this loan to 
Mr P. 
Putting things right
Savvy should buy back the outstanding debt it sold if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. If Savvy isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr P as though they had been repayments of the principal on 
the outstanding loan. 
B) If this results in Mr P having made overpayments then these should be paid back to 
Mr P with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) If there is still an outstanding balance owing then the amounts calculated in A 
should be used to repay this. Any surplus should be paid to Mr P. However if there is 
still an outstanding balance then Savvy should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr P.
D) remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to the loan 
once it is repaid  and if necessary, ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest. Savvy must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Valour Finance Limited trading 
as Savvy.co.uk should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman