DRN-3601975
The complaint
Mr C complains Creation Financial Services Limited trading as Creation failed to contact him 
before they closed his credit card account. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for 
these reasons:
Creation wrote to Mr C in May 2021. Their letter explained his credit card account 
had been inactive for some time and would close in 60 days if it wasnt used. 
Creation has accepted Mr C contacted them in October 2018 to change his address 
after he moved to a new property, however they didnt update his address on their 
system. This resulted in their May 2021 letter being sent to his previous address, and 
his credit card account subsequently closing without his knowledge. Mr C only found 
out this had happened when he tried to use his credit card when he was on holiday. 
So, Ive had to consider the impact this had on Mr C. 
Creations failure to correctly update Mr Cs address meant he was unable to take 
steps to prevent his account from closing. And Mr Cs consistent testimony has 
persuaded me he would have used his credit card to prevent it from closing had he 
received Creations May 2021 letter. Creations mistake would have caused Mr C a 
great deal of concern and worry because he was on holiday when he realised his 
account had been closed. This meant Mr C may have incurred additional expenses 
because he had to use a different card when abroad - and he has consistently 
explained he preferred using his Creation credit card when abroad because it was 
more cost effective to do so. Because of this, I consider Creation needs to do 
something to put things right.
Mr C wants Creation to re-open his credit card account, and Creation have said this 
isnt something they can do. However, theyve explained they would review a new 
credit card application from Mr C, if he submits one. I understand Mr C doesnt want 
to do this because his account was closed due to no fault of his own. However 
financial businesses, like Creation, are obligated to lend responsibly. As Mr Cs credit 
card account was closed in July 2021, his credit agreement with Creation ended at 
that time. This means he would need to enter into a new credit agreement if he was 
to have a credit card with Creation. I cant agree it would be appropriate for Creation 
to ignore whats expected of them in the relevant regulations when it comes to 
lending. So, I wont be asking Creation to re-open Mr Cs credit card account.
Putting things right. 
Ive taken on board what Mr C has said about the hourly rate he charges when hes 
working. However, Im not persuaded that means a higher award is fair or reasonable 
in this case. Firstly, raising a complaint comes with inevitable inconvenience, and we 
wouldnt ordinarily use a consumers earnings to calculate an appropriate award for 
distress and inconvenience. But most importantly, I consider most of Mr Cs 
inconvenience and disappointment occurred while he was on holiday, and his 
testimony has been clear and consistent on the fact the problem arose during his first 
holiday since the pandemic. This means he was not being taken away from his work, 
rather Creations mistakes impacted his ability to enjoy his first holiday in quite some 
time. Therefore, I dont consider his hourly rate is applicable or particularly relevant 
when determining a fair award in the circumstances.
Creations failure to update Mr Cs address is the reason his credit card account was 
closed against his wishes; and as Ive mentioned above, this caused Mr C 
understandable distress and inconvenience. It was also disappointing to see that 
when Mr C first raised his concerns with Creation, their adviser incorrectly told him 
that he hadnt notified them of his change of address. This comment would have only 
further added to Mr Cs frustrations. In light of this, I consider £250 to be a fair award 
in the circumstances.
I appreciate this isnt quite the outcome Mr C hoped for. However, I consider this is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right, Creation Financial Services Limited trading as Creation should pay Mr C 
£250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience their mistake caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman