DRN-3051270
The complaint
Mr E complains that Freedom Finance Limited misused his personal data, and referred him 
to another credit broker instead of to a lender.
What happened
Freedom Finance is a credit broker. In 2020 Mr E applied to Freedom Finance online for a 
loan. Freedom Finance was unable to find him a loan, so it referred him to another credit 
broker instead. This angered Mr E, because he had not wanted or expected to be referred to 
another broker, especially because he says Freedom Finance did not tell him that the broker 
was a broker and not a lender, and also because Freedom Finance did not charge a fee, but 
the other broker charges £20 a month. He also objected to being contacted by third parties 
who had obtained his personal data from Freedom Finance. He complained to Freedom 
Finance and then to our service.
Freedom Finance told Mr B that it had deleted all of his personal data (except for his 
complaint). It said it only refers customers to other brokers when it is unable to find a loan 
itself, and that this is standard practice in the industry. It said it had told Mr E that the other 
broker was another broker and not a lender, and had said so clearly, so he had not been 
misled. Mr E had not proceeded further, and so he had not been charged a fee by the other 
broker. Freedom Finance said its privacy policy had also made it clear that they may share 
information with other brokers, as well as with lenders.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that Mr E had been told that the 
third party was another broker, and that this had been explained in clear terms. Mr E had not 
been charged any money, so he had not been disadvantaged. He recommended that Mr E 
contact directly any third parties which had been contacting him, or raise that matter with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Mr E asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Freedom Finances privacy policy is published online at 
https://www.freedomfinance.co.uk/privacy-policy. I have read it, and under the heading Who 
may we share your data with? it says (bold type in original):
Selected third parties. We may also share your information with selected third 
parties including: 
Other credit brokers (if we are unable to service your request for a loan, credit 
card, or mortgage product).
 
So Im satisfied that Freedom Finance did enough to tell Mr E that it might share his data 
with another broker, before he used its service.
The policy goes on to say:
We may use third party advertising platform providers such as Google to serve 
advertisements to you. These third parties may use information about your visits to 
this and other websites in order to provide you with advertising about products and 
services that may be of interest to you.
So I think the subsequent contact from third parties is likely to have come about in the way 
described in that paragraph, and I have seen no evidence to suggest otherwise. Mr E can 
ask those businesses to stop contacting him, and refer them to the ICO if they do not 
comply.
I recognise that Mr E feels strongly that a free credit broker, such as Freedom Finance, 
should not refer its customers or potential customers to another broker which charges a fee. 
But I do not think there is anything wrong with that, because there is no regulation prohibiting 
that, and because Mr E was not charged a fee, since he chose not to use the other brokers 
services.
The information Mr E was given about the other broker seems to have been perfectly clear. 
I could quote it here, but the investigator has already done that, so I wont repeat it. Its 
enough for me to say that I dont agree that Freedom Finance has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman