DRN-4273136
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aldermore Bank Plc didnt provide the service it should have when he 
requested to transfer his Individual Savings Account (ISA) to another finance provider.
What happened
Mr M submitted an application to open a new account at a building society on 21 October 
2022 which was to be funded by transferring his existing 30-day notice ISA account held with 
Aldermore. The funds were finally credited on 20 December. Mr M says there was an 
unjustifiable delay which meant he had to make several phone calls to try to get the issues 
resolved. He said that both finance providers blamed the other for the issues and that the 
whole process has been frustrating and stressful. He said he needed to use the funds for 
urgent health treatment and was left uncertain as to when he would be able to access his 
money.
Aldermore issued a final response letter dated 9 January 2023. It said it received Mr Ms 
transfer request on 21 October 2022, and placed his account on notice to avoid any 
penalties on the closure of his account. It acknowledged receipt of the building societys 
request on 25 October and confirmed the notice due date of 24 November. It said it 
messaged the building society on 23 November to advise it had accepted its transfer request 
and needed to receive the message to advise it was ready to receive the funds. When Mr M 
contacted it on 9 December it explained it was waiting to hear from the building society that it 
was ready to receive the funds. It said the building society would be contacted and that it 
kept Mr M updated between 13 and 19 December. On 15 December Aldermore identified 
that the building societys transfer status had not been updated which is why the message 
about accepting funds hadnt been received. A new request was submitted by the building 
society on 16 December which Aldermore acknowledged on 19 December and the funds 
were transferred on 20 December.
Aldermore said that the delay was due to the building society not updating its transfer status, 
and it had acted appropriately and kept Mr M updated. Therefore, it didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She said that having looked at the timeline of events, 
the communication and responses from Aldermore could have been more proactive and 
timely. She noted that Mr M had to call up about the progress of his ISA transfer numerous 
times and that the delay caused him stress as he couldnt access his funds for a period of 
time in which he needed them urgently. Because of this she recommended that Aldermore 
pay Mr M £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Aldermore didnt agree with our investigators view and provided further evidence to support 
its position. Our investigator responded to this saying that her view hadnt changed. Because 
a resolution hasnt been agreed, this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman to issue 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parties involved in the process of the transfer of Mr Ms ISA account but this 
complaint is raised against Aldermore and so, while I have noted the actions of the other 
party, this decision is about whether I find that Aldermore provided the level of service it 
should have when dealing with Mr Ms transfer request.
I have looked at the timeline of events. Aldermore received a request from the building 
society on 24 October 2022 for the transfer and issued a message on 25 October to pend 
transfer until 24 November, as Mr M had chosen to serve a 30-day notice period. On 24 
November Aldermore issued an accept message to note it could proceed with the transfer 
out. At this stage I do not find that Aldermore had done anything wrong.
I note Aldermores comment that it is the duty of the acquiring provider to ensure that the 
ready message is sent to allow the transfer to proceed. However, on 5 December 2022, 
Aldermore says it received an email asking it to confirm when the funds would be sent and it 
noted that the building society had tried to call Aldermore. Based on this I think that 
Aldermore could have done more at this point to ensure the transfer was made. Contact had 
been made by the building society and had a call happed at that time this issue may have 
been resolved. Unfortunately, this didnt happen, and I cant see any evidence of a response 
to this until after Mr M had called on 9 December chasing the transfer.
I have listened to the calls provided. On 9 December Aldermore made contact with the 
building society and was told that calls had been attempted on 5 and 8 December with no 
success. The details of what had been sent from Aldermore were given and the building 
society said this would be looked into. I can see that Aldermore updated Mr M following this 
conversation and then updated him again later following a further conversation. At this time, I 
find that Aldermore was taking reasonable steps to try to resolve the delay.
However, the issue wasnt resolved and on a further call to Mr M on 13 December he 
explained that the building society had sent an email to Aldermore the previous day. 
Aldermore hadnt received this. Further calls took place between Aldermore and the building 
society and Mr M on 14 December. On 19 December the request was reissued at which time 
the process appears to have worked and the transfer happened on 20 December.
Having considered the timings in this case I find there were unnecessary delays in Mr Ms 
ISA transfer taking place. While I note the comments Aldermore has made about not 
receiving the ready message I have also taken into account that the building society 
attempted to call it to chase the transfer on 5 and 8 December and that it wasnt until Mr M 
made contact that it started to follow up on this transfer. Therefore, I find that Aldermore 
could have done more in this case to have made the transfer happen in a timelier way.
Because of this I find it should pay Mr M compensation for the upset and distress he has 
been caused. Mr M has explained that he had to chase for a response and that he wasnt 
clear when he would be able to access his money which he has explained he needed 
urgently. Against this I have taken into account the actions of Aldermore on 9 December in 
trying to move things forward and that it contacted Mr M at this time and subsequently to 
keep him updated. Taking all this into account I agree with our investigators 
recommendation that Aldermore should pay Mr M £75 compensation for the delay in his ISA 
transfer and the frustration and upset this caused him.Putting things right
Aldermore should pay Mr M £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the delay in processing his ISA transfer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aldermore Bank Plc should take the action 
set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman