DRN-3934812
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain about Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) who declined part of their claim 
under their property insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a storm, Mr and Mrs T contacted Lloyds as there was damage to their caravan. 
Lloyds accepted the damage to the caravan but didnt accept a claim for the veranda that 
surrounded the caravan. Lloyds settled the claim for the caravan. It said that the veranda not 
only had wear and tear (rotten timber sub-frame) but was also consequential loss and this 
wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs T complained to Lloyds, as they said that they had made extra payments to 
cover the veranda, for incidents such as this. They said that Lloyds should accept the claim 
and pay the cost of replacing the veranda in full, which was £19,353.00. They also said that 
the original veranda wouldnt be able to fit the new veranda, so the issue that there was 
rotten timbers was a red herring. 
In its final response, Lloyds maintained its position. It said that as there was wear and tear, 
on the veranda, which wasnt covered under the policy, the damage was existing and not as 
a result of the storm. So, it wouldnt pay for the cost of the replacement veranda. It 
highlighted that Mr and Mrs Ts own contractor, had written a report stating that the timbers 
were rotten, and a new veranda would need to be built. It recognised that there had been 
some delay and poor customer service and ultimately offered Mr and Mrs T compensation of 
£250 for the trouble and upset caused.  
Lloyds later also said that as the new veranda was going to be a different size to the original 
veranda, through no fault of Mr and Mrs T, it offered a contribution of around 1/3 towards the 
cost of the new veranda. Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy with the outcome and referred a 
complaint to our service, as they had been given their referral rights. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that there was evidence that the timbers were rotten. So, it was fair that Lloyds declined 
the claim on this basis. She thought Lloyds had been fair to offer to contribute towards the 
cost of the new veranda. So, there was nothing further she could reasonably ask Lloyds to 
do regarding this complaint.
Lloyds accepted the view, Mr and Mrs T did not. They said that they had insured the veranda 
and paid the premium. They had suffered loss directly as a result of the storm and would 
expect to be reimbursed in full. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether Lloyds fairly declined the claim regarding the 
veranda, under the policy exclusion of wear and tear.  
Our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to be the cause of the 
damage, is that we take into consideration three questions, when determining whether an 
event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Both parties agree that there were storm conditions around the time of the event. So, the first 
answer to the first question is yes. And this leads to question two, is the damage claimed, 
consistent with damage a storm typically causes. 
Both parties accept that the veranda wasnt damaged. Mr and Mrs T provided a report from 
their contractor who examined the veranda. I note that the contractor concluded that: I have 
been out to inspect this and have come to the conclusion that the deck you have is surplus 
to requirement and is not re-useable in any way, shape or form. The reason for this is the 
sub structure would need to be 100% rebuilt as there are rotten timbers and this could cause 
the deck to collapse at any time if they were to be reused.
From what Ive understood, the contractor determined that the veranda was not usable due it 
being not only surplus to requirements, but more importantly due to the rotten timbers of the 
sub-structure, which he said could collapse at any time. 
Mr and Mrs T said that the rotten timbers comment was a red herring, as the veranda 
would need to be replaced in any event, due to the new larger sized caravan that was the 
replacement. But I dont agree, and Ill explain why. 
The policy that Mr and Mrs T had covered the veranda for damage for an insured event. Mr 
and Mrs T havent provided me with any evidence that the veranda was damaged in any 
way. In fact, they accepted that the veranda wasnt damaged. 
By an insured event, the policy explains that this would be a storm, flood, fire, lightening 
amongst other events. But for damage that was caused on a gradual basis (namely wear 
and tear) like the rotten timbers, this was not covered by the policy. I dont think that the 
veranda could be installed without a sub-structure. Consequently, Im satisfied that the 
veranda included both the sub-structure and the decking laid on top. 
Mr and Mrs T said that the decking wasnt damaged, and I accept this. But as I think the 
veranda must be both parts, (decking and sub-structure) the part that was damaged  
namely the sub-structure, the evidence shows that it was rotten, so couldnt be covered due 
to the policy exclusion of wear and tear. Consequently, I dont think that the damage claimed for was consistent with damage a storm 
typically causes, and I think that Lloyds were fair to decline this part of the claim. 
I have next considered the offer that Lloyds has made by way of settlement of this part of the 
claim. It recognized that there had been decking in place before the storm event and that it 
wouldnt be fair for there not to be any decking. It also said that had it agreed to the full cost 
of the decking (given the evidence of wear and tear) would be betterment. So, in the 
circumstances, it offered around a third of the cost, by way of a contribution. I think that 
given there was no obligation for Lloyds to cover any of the costs of the veranda, the offer for 
part of it, is a fair compromise.
Finally, there had been service failings that Lloyds recognized. It offered total compensation 
of £250 for the trouble and upset caused. And Im satisfied that this is a fair amount in the 
circumstances and one I wouldve recommended, had Lloyds not done so. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr and Mr T will be, 
there was evidence of wear and tear and as this was a policy exclusion, Im satisfied that 
Lloyds fairly declined this part of their claim under the policy terms and conditions. 
I also think that its offer to contribute towards the new veranda and the £250 compensation 
was also fair. Accordingly, I cant reasonably ask Lloyds to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman