DRN-3783881
The complaint
Miss T complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is holding her responsible for a payment she says 
she didnt authorise. She wants Lloyds to refund the money.
What happened
Miss T has a current account with Lloyds.
Miss T told us that on 10 August 2021, she received a text message on her mobile phone 
claiming to be from the post office. The text message said her parcel had gone missing and 
asked her to pay shipping fees via a link contained in the text. Miss T clicked on the link 
which took her to a website. She was then asked for her bank account details, inlcuding the 
security code of her bank card, which Miss T entered. Miss T believed she was making a 
payment to Royal Mail.
Following this, on 11 August 2021 a payment of £160.90 was debited from Miss Ts account, 
to a money transfer service Ill refer to as W. 
Miss T discovered the payment to W when she went online to make her regular rental 
payment a few days later. On 19 August 2021, Miss Ts son rung Lloyds on her behalf and 
reported that Miss T didnt recognise the transaction to W. During the call it was established 
that the transaction had been made using an IP address that Miss T regularly used to carry 
out online banking and make undisputed transactions. Lloyds asked Miss T to check that no 
one in her family had made the transaction.
Miss Ts son spoke to Lloyds again on 27 August 2021. He said hed checked with the  rest 
of the family and no one knew anything about the payment. Miss Ts son told Lloyds that 
since speaking to the bank on the first occasion, Miss T had remembered she received a 
text message. He told Lloyds that Miss T wasnt able to speak English and didnt usually 
respond to texts from people that werent listed as a contact in her mobile phone. 
Miss Ts son said that Miss T hadnt lost her bank card and always kept it in her pocket when 
not using it. Miss T maintained that she was scammed via a phishing text into making the 
payment. And asked Lloyds to refund the transaction.
Lloyds looked into things. The banks technical records showed that the payment to W had 
been made using Miss Ts usual IP address  which appeared to be her home address and 
the usual IP address she used to carry out transactions on her account.
 
Lloyds said that if Miss T had entered her account details onto a fake website via a phishing 
text then it would have expected to see Miss Ts IP address change to the fraudsters IP 
address when they reused Miss Ts payment details to make the transaction on Ws website. 
But this didnt happen. So it said there was no plausible explanation for how Miss Ts bank 
card details were enterted onto Ws webiste without her knowledge. And it declined to refund 
Miss T.
Unhappy with Lloyds response Miss T brought her complaint to us. The compaint was 
looked into by one of our investigators.  The investigator asked Miss T some questions 
regarding how she came to make the payment to W. Miss T told the investigator that despite 
what her son had told the bank and what she told us in her complaint form she never 
actually received any text messages. And that she hadnt clicked on any links to make the 
payment because she doesnt speak English and doesnt even read text messages from 
people she doesnt know. 
Miss T told the investigator that having her bank card details stolen by clicking on a link 
would not have happened at all. And believes that Lloyds is using this as an excuse, in order 
not to return her money. She says that if her son told Lloyds she did receive a text message 
he must have been led by the bank to say such a thing as he has a learning disability.
After considering everything the investigator concluded that Miss T had consented to the 
payment and that it was likley that Miss T had entered the card details, and processed the 
payment to W herself rather than a fraudster using her card details.
Miss T didnt agree. She was diappointed with the outcome and said she had never clicked 
on a link to make the payment. Miss T asked for the complaint to be reviewed again by an 
Ombudsman, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Miss T feels very strongly about her complaint and maintains that she has 
been the victim of a scam. Its understandable that shes upset because she believes that 
money has been taken from her account by fraudsters. And she wants Lloyds to refund her 
money. My role is to consider whether Lloyds have acted fairly and reasonably in holding 
Miss T liable for the transaction in dispute. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards; codes of practice; and 
where appropriate what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
In cases where there is a dispute about what happened, I base my decision on the balance 
of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The relevant regulations, in place at the time, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(the PSRs 2017). Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that 
Miss T authorised the payments, Lloyds is entitled to hold her liable. If a payment transaction 
wasnt authorised, the payment service provider must refund the unauthorised payment 
transaction to the payer, and where applicable restore the account to the state it would have 
been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place. If a payment service user 
(customer) denied having authorised an executed payment  - the payment service provider 
(in this case Lloyds) has to prove that the payment transaction was authenticated and 
consented to. 
Lloyds say the evidence suggests the disputed payment was made by Miss T. Miss T says 
she didnt carry out ,consent or authorise the payment to W. And is seeking a refund.  So, in 
this case I need to think about whether the evidence I have suggests the disputed activity 
was more likely than not carried out by Miss T or carried out with her knowledge and 
consent.In reaching my decision Ive considered the following issues:
No calls had been received since the payment was made and no access given to any 
devices 
The payment to W was made from the same IP address as transactions confirmed with 
the Miss T to be genuine
The payment was made via Ws own website and not via a fraudulent link
Lloyds has been unable to ascertain how Miss Ts bank details could have been entered 
into Ws web-site without Miss Ts knowledge
Miss T says she kept her bank card in her pocket when not using it herself
Ive also  considered what Miss Ts son said about his mother falling victim to a phishing 
scam during his phone call with Lloyds. And Ive kept in mind that Miss T told the investigator 
that she never received a text message. Despite having set this out in her complaint form to 
us. However, even I was to accept Miss T did fall victim to a phishing scam what occurred 
didnt follow what Id expect to see if this was how Miss Ts card details were compromised. I 
say this because the payment was made via Ws website and not via a fraudulent link and 
no further disputed payments were made using Miss Ts bank card. If a fraudster had 
managed to get hold of Miss Ts bank details, as shes alleging, I think its likely that they 
would have maximised what they could take out of Miss Ts account on the first opportunity. 
So, I would have expected to see further payments or attempted payments made. But this 
didnt happen. Only one payment was made.
The test under the PSRs 2017, isnt whether there was an opportunity for Miss Ts card and 
details to be compromised, rather whether the payment services user (Miss T in this case) 
authorised the transaction to W. Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got 
hold of Miss Ts details, made the transaction or to investigate who that potential fraudster 
may be. However, I have thought about the scenarios which would explain how someone 
could have used Miss Ts card without her consent. And having done so, despite what 
Miss T said about other members of her household being responsible for the transaction, I 
struggle to see how the transaction could have been carried out by an unknown third party.
Given what Miss T has told us about her ability to understand English and that she only 
deals with known contacts, Ive considered the possibility that she was persuaded by a friend 
or acquaintance to allow her bank details to be used. She may not even have known what 
that use would entail. But the key aspect to this is that Miss T would have allowed someone 
else to use her bank card to make the transaction.
In summary, when I weigh everything up, Im satisfied that on the balance of probabilities, 
that Miss T made or authorised the transaction to W.  So, it wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to 
refund Miss T.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman