DRN-3984586
The complaint
Miss F complaints Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) gave her a line of credit she 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Miss F approached Drafty for a running credit facility in November 2017. Miss F was given a
facility with a £280 credit limit  which didnt change while Miss F held the facility. Miss F has 
had some problems repaying the facility and as of February 2023 she still owed £298.84.
Miss F was given a running credit facility where she could either request funds up to her
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to the limit. She was also
able to borrow further, up to the credit limit, as and when she repaid what she owed. To be
clear, Miss F was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys final response letter (FRL) issued in May 2022, it explained the information it had
gathered from Miss F before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated 
monthly repayment, Miss F was likely to be able to afford the credit facility. However, Drafty 
also concluded:
 we can see there is a possibility that allowing the continued use of the line 
beyond October 22, 2018 may not have been sustainable in the long term. So, we 
are partially agreeing to your complaint 
Drafty then made an offer to put things right for Miss F. It agreed to:
Refund interest and fees incurred on new drawdowns from 22 October 2018. 
Pay 8% simple interest on the refund and then deducted tax at the rate of 20%. 
Use the refund to offset against Miss Fs outstanding balance. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Fs credit file from 
22 October 2018. 
Drafty explained that after the refund, it would leave an outstanding balance to be paid of 
£187.81. Drafty also said should Miss F need a repayment plan to clear this new balance 
than this will be recorded with the credit reference agency.
Unhappy with this response, Miss F referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, 
where it was considered by an adjudicator. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Fs complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried 
out before granting this facility were proportionate and showed it Miss F was likely to be able 
to afford to service the facility. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have initially approved the 
facility.
Drafty also had an obligation to monitor the facility. Having reviewed the way Miss F 
borrowed and repaid the facility and the other information that was provided, she thought 
Draftys offer in the FRL was fair and reasonable in order to resolve the complaint. 
Miss F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, but she also provided a copy of 
her bank statements from the time when the facility was granted. 
The adjudicator went back to Miss F to explain why, in her view, Drafty didnt need to review 
or consider Miss Fs bank statements. 
Drafty didnt have anything further to add. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
our text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, all of this meant that a lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a
consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Miss Fs
Drafty facility.
As explained, Miss F was given an open-ended credit facility. Overall, I think that means the 
checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Miss F would be able to both service and then repay her facility within a reasonable
period of time. Draft also needed to monitor Miss Fs repayment record for any sign that she
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
Having taken everything into account, I do think the offer Drafty made in the FRL is a fair and 
reasonable outcome for this complaint and Ive explained my reasons below. 
What happened when Drafty approved the facility
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I do think Draftys checks before
providing this facility to Miss F were proportionate taking all of the circumstances into 
account.As Ive explained, Miss F wasnt given a payday loan where she had to repay all of what she
borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. Miss F was given a facility where 
there was an expectation that shed repay what she borrowed plus the interest due within a
reasonable period of time. What constitutes a reasonable period of time is laid out in the
regulations but its important to note that a reasonable period of time will always be
dependent on the circumstances of the individual case.
Miss F was granted a facility with Drafty with a £280 limit. In the credit agreement, a
hypothetical situation is laid out to show the potential cost of the facility to Miss F. This 
hypothetical scenario assumed that Miss F did the following:
1. drew down her maximum credit limit on the first day of the facility being provided,
2. she kept to the terms of the agreement and
3. Miss F repaid what she owed in 12 monthly instalments.
Had Miss F done that, shed have repaid Drafty a total of £368.15 meaning a total monthly
repayment of around £30.67.
So, in these circumstances, I think Drafty needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate
checks to understand whether Miss F could make monthly repayments of around £31 at an
absolute minimum.
Drafty says it agreed to Miss Fs application after shed provided details of her monthly
income and expenditure and it carried out a credit check. Miss F declared she received an 
income of £2,136 per month. She also declared outgoings of £1,200. This information 
showed Drafty that Miss F had around £936 of disposable income each month in which to 
service and repay the facility.
Drafty also carried out a credit check before the facility was granted, and it has provided the
Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results. 
Although, it showed that Miss F had a total of four defaults recorded, Draftys credit checks 
informed it that the most recent default had been recorded four months before the facility 
had granted. It also knew she had eight active credit accounts with outstanding balances of 
around £3,500. But this information alone, wouldnt have been enough, in my view to have 
prompted Drafty to carry out further checks.
I say this that while Im mindful of the recent defaulted account, I do have to consider that 
Drafty was providing a facility with a small limit with potentially small monthly repayments. 
Taking that together with what Miss F declared to Drafty, I dont think the credit checks, on 
its own ought to have led Drafty to have carried out further checks. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty asked Miss F, 
this was Miss Fs first facility and the other information  such as Miss Fs credit search 
results  I dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to have relied on the information Miss F 
provided. I acknowledge that Miss F has supplied copies of her bank statements. But at this stage of 
the lending relationship between the parties, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve
extended to Drafty asking Miss F to evidence what she was declaring, or to asking her for 
her bank statements.
So overall I dont think that Drafty treated Miss F unfairly or unreasonably when it initially 
provided his with an open-ended credit facility in November 2017. I also accept Miss Fs 
actual financial position may not have been reflected either in the information provided, or 
the information Drafty obtained. But Drafty could only make its decision based on the 
information it had available at the time.
I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint about Draftys decision to approve the facility. 
Monitoring the facility
Although I dont think Drafty was wrong to have initially provided the facility, that wasnt the
end of its obligations to Miss F. When the facility was approved, Drafty was regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority and it issued guidance on this type of lending and what it says 
should be expected from lenders when granting these types of loans. Within the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 6.7.2R says:
(1) A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
CONC 1.3 provides a non-exhaustive list of some indicators, which when present in a 
consumers circumstances, could be suggestive of potential financial difficulties.
In practice, CONC 6.7.2(1)R meant Drafty needed to be mindful of Miss Fs repayment 
record and how she used the facility and step in if and when she showed signs of possible 
repayment difficulties.
Drafty has accepted, in the FRL that the facility likely became unsustainable for Miss F in 
October 2018  which is around 11 months after it was granted. The adjudicator, having 
looked at how Miss F had used the facility up to this point agreed with Draftys conclusions 
and therefore concluded this was the point at which the complaint ought to have been 
upheld. And so, any new drawdowns after this date shouldnt have been granted and 
therefore should be interest free  which is the redress that Drafty proposed in the final 
response letter. 
I have also considered the way Miss F used the facility and having taken everything into 
account, the point at which Drafty has concluded the complaint ought to be upheld isnt 
unreasonable considering Miss Fs repayment record. 
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable of Drafty to have approved the facility or
have stepped in earlier than the point it has upheld the complaint. So, I dont think it ought to 
have allowed any new drawdowns on the facility after 22 October 2018.
I also dont think the way Miss F has used the facility, from inception to the uphold date 
showed that the facility was unaffordable for her. For example, there are no missed 
payments and at times, Miss F does repay more than the minimum amount required. 
This does mean I dont think Drafty needed to have suspended interest on the whole facility. 
As this is the case, I cant fairly ask Drafty to do any more than what it has already agreed to 
do to put things right for Miss F as outlined in the FRL. If Drafty hasnt done so, it should arrange to carry out the redress that it proposed in the final 
response letter in May 2022. I say this because I consider this to be a fair and reasonable 
outcome of the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above the offer Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty made to Miss F in 
its final response letter is fair and reasonable to resolve the complaint. So, if it hasnt done 
so, then Gain Credit LLC should pay this award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman