DRN-3963129
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained because Metro Bank PLC refused to refund them for £900 of 
withdrawals which were made from their account after Mrs Hs phone was stolen.
What happened
Mrs Hs phone was stolen on 7 April 2022. She said she was having a meal out, and 
someone she described as a scruffy woman approached her with a document which she 
put on the table in front of Mrs H. She was begging for money. Mrs H didnt understand her, 
because she was speaking broken English. Mrs H repeatedly told the woman to go away. 
Eventually the woman did leave, but Mrs H realised that shed laid the document over Mrs 
Hs phone, and when shed left had taken Mrs Hs phone with her.  Mrs H chased after her 
but unsuccessfully.
Mrs H had a passcode for her phone, and a different passcode to access the mobile 
payment service, neither of which had she written down. She also said she had face 
recognition for both her phone and to access the mobile payment service.
On 8 April, several transactions were made from Mr and Mrs Hs joint Metro account, using a 
mobile payment service on Mrs Hs phone. Five payments took place at a superstore in 
quick succession, totalling £900. There were then three declined payments, for £300, £100 
and £100.
Mrs H contacted Metro to dispute the transactions. However, Metro didnt contact Mrs H until 
1 June, and when Mrs H rang Metro on 3 and 6 June, she was put through to the wrong 
team. By 8 August, Mrs H made a complaint, but Metro didnt raise a complaint for her.
In November 2022, Mrs H contacted this service. We got in touch with Metro, which started 
its complaint investigation. Metro said that it didnt uphold Mrs Hs claim for a refund for the 
disputed £900 transactions, because whoever did the transactions would have done so 
using Ms Hs biometric data and her passcodes. However, Metro acknowledged that it hadnt 
provided Mrs H with a good service because it hadnt made contact promptly, had mis-
directed Mrs Hs calls, and hadnt raised a complaint. It offered Mrs H £100 compensation for 
that.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He said that all the disputed transactions 
had been made using the mobile payment service, which needed a passcode and optional 
biometrics to authorise any transaction. Mrs H had told him that she had a passcode which 
she hadnt written down anywhere, and that she didnt know how the person who had stolen 
her phone had been able to use it for the transactions.
So the investigator said that as there wasnt any point of compromise, he couldnt ask Metro 
to refund Mrs H. He thought Metros offer of £100 was fair.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. Mr H explained that basically Metro was accusing his wife of 
fraud. He said that at the time of the disputed transactions, theyd been in the phone shop 
sorting our Mrs Hs replacement phone. Mr H said theyd like the police to investigate, 
because they lived a very honest life, and they were very unhappy that Metro was accusing 
Mrs H of fraud. The investigator told Mr H that this service cant ask the police to get 
involved, but he could ask for an ombudsmans decision. Mr H said hed seen online articles 
about mobile payment services not being secure, and forwarded some of these to the 
investigator. The investigator asked if there was any more information about how anyone 
else might have obtained the necessary passcodes or biometrics, but Mr H said no, he was 
always very insistent to Mrs H that she should be careful about security, and even he didnt 
know her passcode. He also said theyd never shopped at the supermarket where the 
transactions had taken place. Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. 
The regulations say that the payment service provider (here, Metro) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Metro should provide 
evidence that the transactions were properly authenticated. I asked Metro for full evidence, 
which it failed to provide. Unfortunately it does sometimes happen that this service doesnt 
have all the evidence wed like. When that happens, I take my decision on the basis of 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
Here, I know the transactions took place on Mrs Hs mobile phone, which she said was 
stolen. The transactions appear to have taken place in a supermarket. So I think its most 
likely that whoever had the phone also had the log-in credentials, rather than any sort of 
online hack.
Ive gone on to consider whether its more likely than not that Mrs H authorised the 
payments. The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised 
payments under certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details 
secure to such an extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
Authorisation of the payments
I recognise that Mr and Mrs H feel strongly about their complaint, and are quite clear that 
they didnt carry out the transactions. But the problem here is seeing how the fraudster could 
have carried out the transactions. I asked Mrs H for more information about the security, to 
see if there was any way a fraudster could have obtained the information. I also asked how 
she thought any fraudster could have obtained her passcode.  But she said she had no idea. 
So Mrs H told us that:
- the phone had a passcode that only she knew, and it wasnt written down anywhere.  
It also had face recognition;
- the mobile payment service was protected by face recognition and she had 
memorised the passcode;
- the passcodes were different for the phone and for the mobile payment service.
In view of this, its not possible for me to conclude that a third party fraudster carried out the 
transactions. Thats because I can only do so if theres some reasonable explanation for how the fraudster might have been able to do this. I recognise that Mr H has sent us links to 
various internet articles to indicate that mobile phones and mobile payment systems can be 
accessed by fraudsters. But theres also a lot of evidence to indicate that mobile phone and 
mobile payment systems are secure, provided the customer keeps their details private. And 
with biometric data being used, its even harder to see how fraudsters could get round that. 
So I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint for the £900 of transactions.
Metros service towards Mrs H
Ive considered Metros service towards Mrs H. As Ive set out above, Metro has itself 
admitted that it didnt contact Mrs H in a timely way after she raised the fraud complaint in 
April 2022. It mis-directed her calls on 3 and 6 June, and ignored Mrs Hs 8 August request 
to make a complaint. Metro didnt look at Mrs Hs complaint until she raised it with this 
service in November 2022. Thats a very long time, and its understandable that Mr and Mrs 
H would have been frustrated and annoyed with Metro. So I consider its right that Metro 
should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
poor service. I find that £100 is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr 
and Mrs H £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman