DRN-4086313
The complaint
Mr S complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a 
claim under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S entered into a contract with an electrical company to complete some work at his 
property. The work was faulty, so he made a claim under his insurance policy to take legal 
action against them.
DAS instructed its panel solicitors who assessed the merits of the case and concluded that it 
didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of recovery  which is a condition of cover under the 
policy. Based on this advice, DAS declined the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree with the legal advice, and he didnt think it had come from a suitably 
qualified lawyer as the case was handled by a paralegal. He raised a complaint. 
DAS said it was entitled to rely on the legal advice and maintained its position that the claim 
doesnt meet the policy requirements. But it acknowledged thered been some delays in 
actioning Mr S correspondence and it offered £75 compensation by way of an apology.
As Mr S remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our Service. But our Investigator 
didnt uphold it as he was satisfied DAS had declined the claim in line with the policy terms 
and hadnt acted unfairly. Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a requirement of Mr S legal expenses insurance policy that any intended claim enjoys 
reasonable prospects of success defined as:
The prospects that you will recover losses or damages (or obtain any other legal 
remedy that DAS have agreed to, including an enforcement of judgment), make a 
successful defence or make a successful appeal or defence of an appeal, must be at 
least 51%. DAS, or a preferred law firm on their behalf, will assess whether there are 
reasonable prospects.
 
In laymans terms, this means that the chances of winning and receiving the money awarded 
must be more likely than not, i.e. 51% or above.
These policy terms arent unusual in legal expenses policies, and we dont think theyre 
unfair. Court action can be very expensive, so a privately paying customer wouldnt want to 
bear the cost of legal proceedings if they were told they were unlikely to succeed or recover 
any damages. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer to either.
Where an insurer has declined funding based on these policy requirements, it isnt for me to 
evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, Ill look at whether the insurer has acted 
fairly. So long as it has obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, I wont generally 
question its reliance on that advice, unless I think it was obviously wrong or based on factual 
mistakes. 
In this case, DAS has obtained advice from its panel solicitors who were of the legal opinion 
that there were insufficient prospects of recovery. They said their specialist tracing and 
investigation software hadnt found that the liable party would have the means to pay any 
judgment awarded in Mr S favour. So even if he won his case in court, its unlikely hed 
receive the money.
I appreciate Mr S doesnt agree with the legal advice; hes asked DAS to disregard it and 
instruct another firm. But Im satisfied the advice was properly written and well-reasoned, 
and not obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes. 
Mr S is concerned that the advice has been provided by a paralegal. But the firm have 
confirmed that they were supervised by a senior colleague  the details of whom have been 
provided to Mr S. So, Im satisfied its been obtained from a suitably qualified lawyer.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that DAS shouldnt rely on the legal advice it 
obtained. Rather, its up to Mr S to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of his claim, 
at his own cost, if he wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive of the 
prospects of recovery, then Id expect DAS to reconsider the claim. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied the claim has been declined correctly and fairly in line 
with the policy terms and conditions.
DAS has offered £75 compensation for some failings in their customer service. Should Mr S 
wish to accept this offer, he should contact DAS directly to arrange payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman