DRN-3598468
The complaint
Mr S has complained about advice he was given by one of Portal Financial Services LLPs 
advisors to switch his personal pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
Mr S is represented in this matter by a third party  who I will refer to as E.
What happened
Portal has provided us with very little information and documentation in respect of the advice 
it gave to Mr S. My outline of the circumstances leading up to this complaint is therefore 
based on what Ms S has told us and on what I can glean from the documentation that we 
have received.
Mr S was contacted by Portal about reviewing his pension. In January 2014 Portal prepared 
a suitability report which outlined its advice/recommendation. I havent seen a copy of the 
report, but other documents in the file suggest that Mr S was advised to switch his existing 
personal pension to a SIPP. The switch was made in February 2014. According to the SIPP 
transaction summary, £68,985.82 was transferred to the SIPP. Mr S then withdrew 
£17,249.12 as tax-free cash and the remainder was invested.
E wrote to Portal on 2 March 2021 outlining Mr Ss complaint. It essentially said that Portal 
acted negligently in advising Mr S, which resulted in him suffering a loss of around £15,000. 
Points it raised included that Portal:
hadnt shown that it adequately assessed Mr Ss expertise, experience, knowledge, 
financial situation or capacity for loss
didnt ensure the recommendations were suitable for Mr Ss attitude to risk (ATR), 
needs, objectives or circumstances
didnt explain the risks or costs
recommended that Mr S invest around 90% of his pension into a high risk, unregulated 
overseas property investment.
Portal chose not to respond to the complaint or any of the allegations so Mr S referred the 
matter to us. We received the complaint on 26 April 2021.
Our investigator concluded that the complaint should be upheld  essentially because Portal 
hadnt provided any reasons for why the switch was recommended or anything to show that 
its advice was suitable. Portal didnt accept our investigators assessment. It disapproved of 
Es involvement in the matter as it didnt accept their authority to act on Mr Ss behalf and 
didnt recognise them as an authorised body in respect of complaints submitted to us. It also 
felt Mr Ss complaint fell outside of our jurisdiction because hed referred it to us too late.
Our investigator issued a further opinion on Mr Ss complaint, concluding that it was in our 
jurisdiction. Portal replied, referring back to its original response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
I can only decide a complaint if it falls within our jurisdiction. There are numerous rules that 
relate to our jurisdiction but Im only going to address the ones in respect to the issues that 
Portal has raised. I nevertheless confirm that Ive considered all the other rules and Im 
satisfied that Mr S fits within the criteria.
The first issue relates to Mr Ss choice of representative. Im aware that Portal has refused to 
respond to complaints where the consumer is represented by E because its feels they arent 
authorised by the regulator. Thats of course Portals prerogative and commercial decision. 
However, how Portal chooses to respond to complaints has no bearing on a consumer being 
able to bring a complaint to us.
The rules pertaining to parties bringing a complaint to us say:
a complaint can only be brought to us by or on behalf of an eligible complainant
a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised 
by the eligible complainant.
An eligible complainant must be a person that is a consumer  which is defined as any 
natural person (ie human being) acting for purposes outside of their trade, business or 
profession. They must also have a complaint which arises from matters relevant to a specific 
listed relationship with the financial business. The listed relationships include that the 
complainant is/was a customer of the financial business.
Mr S is an eligible complainant because (a) hes a consumer ie hes a person and in 
receiving the advice he was acting in a personal capacity, and (b) he was Portals customer 
in respect of the advice he received. E, in bringing the complaint to us, was authorised to do 
so by Mr S  his signed complaint form is evidence of that. And the complaint has been 
brought to us by and on behalf of Mr S.
Accordingly, I conclude that Mr S meets the eligibility criteria for bringing a complaint to us ie 
hes an eligible complainant.
The second issue relates to the time limits Mr S has to refer a complaint to us. We cant 
consider a complaint if he referred it to us:
more than six years after the event complained about happened; or
if six years have passed, more than three years from the date on which he became 
aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
The event Mr S is complaining about is the advice he received to switch his pension. That 
was in January 2014, which means that he had until January 2020 to refer a complaint to us. 
We received Mr Ss complaint on 26 April 2021 ie after the six year time limit expired. The 
six year time limit doesnt apply if Mr S complained to Portal within the six years. But E didnt 
complain to Portal on Mr Ss behalf until March 2021 ie outside of the six years.
Portal has referred to annual reviews it sent to Mr S in July 2015, March 2016 and March 
2017. It feels the content in these updates provided Mr S with information regarding the issues with some of the funds he was invested in, which it feels should have given him 
cause for concern and complaint.
At the time of the 2015 review Mr Ss pension fund was worth £50,979. The review letter 
said the fund had grown by 3.79% per year since the switch and that it would be worth 
£55,780 (if it grew by 1% each year until Mr S turned 66), £66,604 (if it grew by 3%) or 
£79,257 (if it grew by 5%).
At the time of the 2016 review Mr Ss pension fund was worth £51,793. The review letter 
said the fund had grown by 2.59% since the last review and that it would be worth £56,222 
(if it grew by 1% each year until Mr S turned 66), £66,440 (if it grew by 3%) or £78,128 (if it 
grew by 5%).
Both the 2015 and 2016 review letters briefly detailed how Mr Ss funds were invested and 
commented on how some of the investments worked and their targeted returns. But they 
didnt comment on how theyd performed so far or how they were expected to perform going 
forward; and they didnt outline any specific problems with any of the investments. The 
letters also outlined Portals recommendation to change how Mr Ss pension should be 
invested  which it said was to reflect his attitude to risk and his plans for the future (as 
opposed to, for example, any problems with the existing investments). The letters also 
provided brief general information on the economic backdrop and the market.
At the time of the 2017 review Mr Ss pension fund was worth £57,614. The review letter 
said this represented growth of 10.8% since the last review. It also provided brief general 
information on the market. The reviewed also alerted Mr S to the fact that the current 
performance of the investments under the structured element of his pension raised some 
concerns. But Portal said it wasnt unduly worried and it was confident this element of the 
pension would grow by the targeted amount by the end of the specified investment period. 
The letter again outlined Portals recommendation, so that the percentage invested in each 
investment rebalanced to the proportions previously recommended. It again said this was to 
ensure the portfolio continued to reflect the level of investment risk Mr S was prepared to 
take.
As I havent seen any documentation from the time of the advice, I dont know how the 
actual or expected growth compared to what Mr S was told at the outset he could expect. 
However, even if the actual growth didnt strictly meet the expected growth, given that the 
pension was a long-term investment Im not persuaded on the face of it that Mr S ought 
reasonably to have become aware that he had cause for complaint about the advice he 
received having been told that his pension had grown by 3.79%, 2.59% and 10.8%. Further, 
as Ive said above, the 2015 and 2016 review letters didnt say anything about the 
performance of Mr Ss investments or, importantly, detail any particular problems or issues 
with them. Im not therefore persuaded that the 2015 or 2016 review letters provided 
sufficiently clear information that ought to have made Mr S think that something had gone 
wrong and that he had cause for complaint.
The 2017 review letter did mention concerns with the current performance of some 
investments  which might reasonably have led to Mr S thinking that something had gone 
wrong. But I think any thoughts Mr S might/should have had in this respect would have been 
quashed by Portals confidence in the investments. If Portal wasnt unduly worried about the 
investment why should Mr S have been? And if Portal was confident the investment would 
grow by the targeted amount why should Mr S have thought anything different.
Ultimately, I dont think there is anything in the review letters that should reasonably have 
prompted Mr S into thinking that he had a cause for complaint about the advice hed 
received. For completeness, I havent seen anything else from before 26 April 2018 (ie three years before the complaint was referred to us) that ought to have prompted Mr S into 
thinking he had a cause for complaint.
I therefore conclude that Mr S didnt refer his complaint to us late.
So, for the above reasons, I conclude that Mr Ss complaint falls within our jurisdiction. 
Having reached this conclusion, I turn to my consideration to whether the complaint has any 
merit.
Portals responsibilities
There were various Conduct of Business rules Portal had to adhere to when it advised Mr S, 
including:
it had to take reasonable steps to ensure its recommendation was suitable for Mr S 
(COBS 9.2.1(1))
it had to get information regarding Mr S's knowledge and experience, financial situation 
and objectives (COBS 9.2.1(2))
it had to get sufficient information to ensure the recommendation met Mr Ss objectives, 
he was able to bear the associated investment risks, and he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks (COBS 9.2.2)
if it didnt get the necessary information to assess suitability it mustnt make a 
recommendation (COBS 9.2.6)
it needed to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with Mr Ss best 
interests (COBS 2.1.1).
In essence, there was an overarching responsibility on Portal to treat Mr S fairly and to 
ensure that its recommendation was suitable for him.
In 2009 the regulator published a report and checklist which identified four main areas where 
consumers had lost out when switching their pension:
theyd been switched to a pension that was more expensive without good reason
theyd lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason
theyd switched to a pension that didnt match their recorded ATR and personal 
circumstances
theyd switched to a pension where there was a need for ongoing investment reviews but 
this hadnt been explained, offered or put in place.
Was the advice suitable/did Portal treat Mr S fairly?
I can only decide this complaint based on the evidence presented the parties. By not 
responding to the initial complaint and by not providing us with its file Portal has effectively 
chosen to not engage with the complaint process. I therefore think that in reaching my 
decision its fair for me to rely on what Mr S has told me happened (which itself is direct 
testimony  which Portal hasnt disproven) and/or to draw adverse inferences from Portals 
lack of engagement.
It's difficult for me to conclude that Portal treated Mr S fairly or that its recommendation was 
suitable when it hasnt provided us with anything to show that it got information about his 
investment knowledge/experience, financial situation or objectives. Nor has it provided 
anything to show that its recommendation met Mr Ss objectives, that he was able to bear 
the associated investment risks and that he understood the risks.The fact the recommended switch/investment might not have grown as much as had been 
hoped isnt reason in itself for the complaint to be upheld. However, I need to be satisfied 
that the recommendation was suitable for Mr S when it was recommended in 2014. I think 
for the advice to be suitable it needs to be shown that there was reasonable potential for 
Mr S to be better off by switching. So, Id expect Portal to be able to show that comparisons 
were made between the old personal pension and the SIPP. It should also be able to show 
that the reasons for switching were sound  the potential for Mr S to be better off needed to 
be enough to more than compensate for the risk that he might end up worse off. In general, I 
often look at the issues identified by the regulator in 2009 that Ive mentioned above.
In respect of the cost of the SIPP, I havent seen anything which shows me that Portal 
explained the charges (including penalties, exit fees or market value adjustments that might 
have been applied on leaving the old pension) to Mr S. I also havent seen anything which 
shows that the projected growth of the SIPP was sufficient to offset the charges and the cost 
of the advice. And I havent seen anything which shows me that Portal considered 
recommending that Mr S switch to a stakeholder pension (as the charges are capped) or 
that it explained why it didnt recommend this option.
In respect of Mr Ss attitude to risk and the underlying investments held within the SIPP, 
Portal hasnt provided anything to show that it sufficiently assessed the level of risk Mr S was 
prepared to take with his pension and the capacity he had to suffer any losses. Accordingly, 
it hasnt shown that the investments it recommended were in line with that risk level and 
capacity for loss.
Mr S on the other hand has said Portals recommendation didnt match his ATR, needs, 
objectives or circumstances and that it didnt explain the risks or costs. He also said the 
recommended investment was too high for the level of risk he was prepared to take.
Given the lack of evidence provided by Portal to counter Mr Ss testimony and to show that 
its recommendation was suitable and that it treated Mr S fairly, I conclude its more likely 
than not that Portals advice was unsuitable. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr S back into the position he would likely 
have been in had it not been for Portals unsuitable advice.
Preferred option
Mr S has told us that if he hadnt transferred to the SIPP he would have stayed with his 
existing pension. Ive no reason to disbelieve what Mr S has told us.
On that basis, any loss Mr S has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional 
value of the original pension from the previous pension provider assuming that it would have 
continued to be invested in the same funds and subtracting the current value of the SIPP 
from this notional value. If the resulting answer is positive Mr S has suffered a loss and this 
is the compensation figure. If the answer is negative, Mr S hasnt suffered a loss so no 
compensation is payable.
Alternative option
I consider the Preferred option outlined above to be the fairest way of resolving this 
complaint. However if Mr Ss previous pension provider isnt able or willing to calculate a 
notional value, my aim is still to put Mr S as close to the position he would probably now be in if hed stayed with his original pension. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given what Mr S has told us about his low capacity for loss and ATR.
Any loss Mr S has suffered should be determined by comparing the performance of Mr S's 
SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. If the actual value (which is the actual value 
of the SIPP at the end date) is greater than the fair value (which is what the SIPP would 
have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the benchmark) no 
compensation is payable. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
Novia SIPP Still in forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
switchDate of my 
final decisionNil
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum Mr S has paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal Mr S has 
made from the investment should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
Ive decided on this alternative method of compensation because:
with Mr Ss low capacity for loss and ATR I think he most likely wanted capital growth 
with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It doesnt mean that he would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return he could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
How to pay the compensation
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ss SIPP to increase its value. 
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ss SIPP or there are protection or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum. But had it been 
possible to pay into the SIPP it would have provided a taxable income. So the total amount 
should be reduced notionally to allow for any future income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional reduction should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. I think its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, if Mr S would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Whichever, method is used to calculate the compensation, Portal must provide details of its 
calculations to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Delay in paying the compensation
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of Portal receiving Mr Ss 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay compensation as set 
out under the Putting things right heading above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman