DRN-3950238
The complaint
Mr G complains that Acromas Insurance company Limited unfairly declined a claim he made 
on his breakdown insurance policy.
Reference to Acromas includes its agents.
What happened
Mr G holds a breakdown policy with Acromas. When his parking sensors stopped working, 
he called Acromas for assistance.
Acromas was unable to fix the issue at the roadside, so it advised Mr G to take his car to a 
garage to get them fixed. Mr G says he was advised the repair would be be covered by his 
breakdown policy.
After roughly 11 weeks, Mr G took his car to a garage to get the sensors fixed and submitted 
a claim to Acromas.
Acromas declined the claim. It said the parking sensors werent covered by the policy.
Mr G wasnt happy with this, so he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought Acromass decision to 
decline the claim was fair and reasonable, and in line with the policy terms.
But Mr G remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He doesnt think his 
claim is clearly excluded from cover  so thinks Acromas should pay it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Gs policy with Acromas covers him for mechanical or electrical failures following 
a breakdown. So, in order to be covered, the failure needs to follow a breakdown.
Breakdown is defined in the policy as:
oA sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure: and
b) which has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership: and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its 
journey safely: and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the 
journey to be resumed or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under 
Your AA membership, commenced
Acromas has said that Mr Gs parking sensors failing doesnt meet the above 
definition, because it didnt prevent his vehicle form starting or continuing its journey 
safely. 
Im satisfied thats reasonable. Its evidenced in part by Mr G continuing to use his 
car for 11 weeks between first calling Acromas and making his claim. Many vehicles 
on the road dont have parking sensors. And their use is purely to assist in the 
parking of the vehicle. Im not persuaded that them not working makes the vehicle in 
any way unsafe.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman