DRN-4504132
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money he lost when he was the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr S says he received a message via an instant messaging service from a 
number hed never had any contact from before. The message appeared to be intended for 
someone else but, when Mr S responded to say this, the messages continued and Mr S 
started a conversation with the person who sent the message.
After several weeks of messages, during which time their relationship developed and they 
got to know and trust each other, Mr S says the person started telling him about the money 
they had made investing in cryptocurrency. They encouraged him to invest as well and sent 
him a link to the website of the investment company they used. And as Mrs S says he 
trusted the person at this point, he followed their advice and signed up with the investment 
company.
Mr S says he was then contacted by someone from the investment company, who gave him 
log-in details to access the companys trading platform and talked him through making 
investments. And over the following weeks, Mr S made a number of payments out of his 
Monzo account to a number of different account details the investment company gave him, 
in order to invest. Mr S says he could then see the payments he had made appear on the 
trading platform, and that the investments he had made were making a profit.
In August 2022, Mr S says he was happy with the profit the trading platform showed he had 
made and so asked to withdraw his money. But he says the investment company then told 
him he would have to pay liquidity fees and then tax on his profits before he could withdraw. 
Mr S made these further payments but was then told his account had been restricted and he 
needed to pay more to access it. And when he refused to make any more payments, he 
says the investment company became aggressive and ultimately both the company and the 
person who had initially messaged him blocked his messages. Mr S then realised he had 
been the victim of a scam, reported the payments he had made to Monzo and asked it to 
refund the money he had lost.
Monzo investigated but said Mr S didnt appear to have done reasonable checks on the 
person who contacted him or the investment company. So it didnt agree to refund the 
money he had lost. Mr S wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a complaint to 
our service.
I sent Mr S and Monzo a provisional decision on 16 November 2023, setting out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
Before our service considers whether a bank has done enough to protect its customers, we 
must first be satisfied that a customer has been the victim of a scam. But despite requesting 
evidence from him on a number of occasions and giving him sufficient opportunity to provide 
it, I dont think we have enough information or evidence from Mr S here to safely conclude 
that he has been the victim of a scam.
We dont have any documentary evidence of any of the contact Mr S had with either the 
person who initially messaged him or the investment company. And we havent been sent 
anything showing the trading platform he signed up to and was given access to, or the profits 
he was told he was making. Mr S has sent us screenshots of some text messages, but these 
dont show any names or dates so I cant see that these are related to Mr S, the person he 
was messaging or the investment company. And the amounts mentioned in the screenshots 
dont match up to any of the payments Mr S made out of his Monzo account.
We also dont have any clear evidence of what the payments made out of Mr Ss Monzo 
account were for, or that they were made as a result of a scam. Mr S has suggested the 
payments were to buy cryptocurrency, but we havent been sent any evidence of this, or any 
evidence that Mr S doesnt still have access to any cryptocurrency he might have bought.
I appreciate that Mr S has said he has since deleted all the messages from the person who 
initially contacted him and the investment company, and does not want to have to re-live 
what happened to him. But I dont think it would be fair for me to make a finding on whether 
Monzo should be required to refund any of the money he lost, when I dont think I can safely 
conclude what happened here or that he was even the victim of a scam.
If Mr S can send us any further evidence, I will consider this before making my final decision. 
But, based on the evidence available at the moment, I dont think I can safely conclude that 
Mr S has been the victim of a scam here or that it would be fair to require Monzo to refund 
any of the payments to him.
I said Id consider anything further Mr S and Monzo sent in following the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr S and Monzo responded to the provisional saying they didnt have anything further 
to add and accepted the outcome. And so I still think the conclusions I set out in the 
provisional decision are correct, and for the same reasons.
I still dont think I can safely conclude that Mr S has been the victim of a scam, or that it 
would be fair to require Monzo to refund any of the payments to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman