DRN-1137961
 
The complaint
 Mr D and Miss F have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
 Mr D and Miss F took out the PPI in 1994. The sale happened in a meeting in branch at the 
same time as they were arranging the mortgage. The policy was set up to provide cover for 
both Mr D and Miss F for accident, sickness and unemployment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr D and Miss Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have any documentation for the sale of PPI, which isnt surprising given how 
long ago it took place. But this does make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching 
my decision I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is 
most likely to have happened.
Mr D and Miss F have said that, as the sale happened 25 years ago, they cant recall the 
exact details of the sale. But they say that the PPI was presented as part of the package with 
the mortgage and not as an optional separate product.
From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, PPI was usually presented as 
optional. I havent seen any evidence to suggest that something different happened in this 
case. On a balance of probability, Im not persuaded that Mr D and Miss F werent given a 
choice about taking out the policy. They have themselves said that they dont recall the sale 
in detail. Overall I consider that they probably decided to buy the PPI, knowing that they 
didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
BoS advised Mr D and Miss F to buy the policy. That means that, in recommending it to 
them, it needed to ensure that it met their needs. From what I know of Mr D and Miss Fs 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr D says that his employer would have provided sick pay of full pay for six months, then 
75% for three months and then half pay for another three months. Miss F originally told us 
that she couldnt remember what her sick pay entitlement was, although lately she has said 
that she would have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay. 
Regardless of what sick pay Mr D and Miss F would have actually received, the policy would 
have paid out in addition to this, and potentially for longer than they would have received full 
pay for.Mr D and Miss F have said that they were a young couple, buying their first home and that 
money was tight. But they have also said that they had about £12,000 in savings at the time 
which wasnt earmarked for any particular use. These two statements are slightly at odds 
with each other. Regardless, having the policy would have meant that they could have 
retained any savings or used them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a 
difficult time.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be very serious. So its not surprising if Mr D and Miss F had an interest in 
protecting their repayments.
BoS also needed to provide Mr D and Miss F with enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether the policy was right for them. Mr D and Miss F say that Miss 
F had some time off work sick in 1996 but didnt claim on the policy. They say that this 
shows they didnt understand how the policy worked.
The policy had a 30 day waiting period, meaning that you couldnt claim for periods of 
disability lasting less than 30 days. That is potentially a reason why Miss F didnt make a 
claim (although Im aware that she recalls that she had six weeks off work). 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr D and Miss F have said. On balance, I consider 
that they would have been told something about the policy (that it would cover their 
mortgage repayments if they were unable to work) because I dont think they would have 
agreed to buy the policy without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that BoS could have provided more information about the PPI, particularly about 
the things that it didnt cover. But Mr D and Miss F werent affected by any of those things. 
As I consider that Mr D and Miss F had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I am 
not persuaded that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So 
they arent any worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong. So theres 
nothing that BoS needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr D and Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman