DRN-1868363
The complaint
Ms F complains that Black Horse Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms F acquired a second-hand car costing £12,749 funded by a deposit of 
£781 and the balance by a finance agreement. It was some two years old and had done 
33,980 miles on it at the time. In September Ms F took the car back to the dealer to address 
an issue with the brakes. It replaced the rear and front brake discs and pads along with the 
drop links.
Ms F also complained that she had been persuaded to buy a petrol car when she had been 
used to diesel ones. She thought her new car was more expensive to run. She also believed 
that there were more scratches and marks on the car than she had realised during the 
rushed sales process. She explained she had chosen another car initially, but had been 
persuaded to take this one and it had suffered numerous problems. 
Subsequently Ms F says she believed the car to be juddering and losing power at times. The 
dealer inspected it but could find no fault. Ms F then contacted Black Horse and it arranged 
for an independent inspection of the car. In January 2020 an inspector carried out various 
tests on the car, over a period of three days. The report concludes that no faults were found 
and noted the condition of the car to be commensurate with its age and mileage.
Ms F remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted the 
brake issues were a matter of wear and tear and Black Horse had maintained they were in a 
fair condition for their age.
Our investigator also said the independent inspector had driven the car for some 460 miles 
and had been unable to identify any noticeable faults with the braking system, tyre 
pressures, or the gearbox, no undue rattling and no difficulty in selecting gears.
Ms F says that the dealer hasnt supplied records of all the times she took the car back and 
hadnt completed jobs sheets. Our investigator explained that the dealer didnt come within 
our jurisdiction. Overall, she said that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show the car was 
faulty at the point of sale. Black Horse had offered Ms F £150 compensation and £176.42 to 
reflect the time she was without the car.
Ms F didnt agree and said the car wasnt satisfactory. She added that in June 2020 when in 
for a routine MOT the garage discovered there was fault with the steering and a new column 
was fitted. It was covered under the warranty, but she said she had been complaining about 
this before and had been ignored.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate the frustration expressed by Ms F about the car, but I dont consider I can 
uphold her complaint. I will explain why.
The car was second hand and had done a fair mileage which means it will have been 
subject to wear and tear. That means that issues such as the brakes will need to be 
addressed as part of that wear and tear process.
I note that Ms F has said that the car she chose originally was said to be unsuitable and she 
was persuaded to take a replacement. She also said the sales process was rushed and she 
didnt have time to inspect the car properly. It was only later that she noticed the marks on 
the bodywork. I have some sympathy with her, but it was open to her to inspect the car and 
to identify any issues which she thought unacceptable. It seems this did not happen, but I 
cannot hold Black Horse responsible for that.
On the remining issues I have looked at the independent report and have noted that this was 
more detailed than one would normally expect. The inspector could find no faults with the car 
which would merit rejection and none which could be said to have been present at the point 
of sale. I note Ms F has reported work which has been carried out on the steering column. I 
have checked the MOT records and these show that there was an advisory note for slight 
play in the lower steering column. This wasnt such that it caused the car to fail its MOT.
The inspector also noted that he achieved a MPG figure of 40 which he considered to be 
reasonable for this car and I dont think I can say that Ms F was mis-sold an unsuitable car. I 
gather she does mainly short trips and it is not unusual for a petrol, rather than diesel engine 
to be recommended. 
In summary Ms F has had some issues with her car which have been addressed by the 
dealer at no charge to her. The car has recently passed it MOT and an independent 
inspection showed no significant faults. As such I do not consider I can uphold her 
complaint.
My final decisionBlack Horse Limited has already made an offer to pay £326.42 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So, my decision is that Black Horse should 
pay £326.42 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman