DRN-3355831
The complaint
Mr C complained that the PIN for his card with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money 
(Virgin) didnt work. He said Virgin didnt resolve this properly for him, and when he then 
complained, it made a very bad job of trying to sort that out too. He wanted compensation.
What happened
Mr C said he tried to withdraw money at a branch of Virgin, but his PIN wasnt recognised. 
This wasnt his first attempt, and Mr C is confident he got his PIN right. He said hed been 
using it for purchases with no problems, so there must have been something wrong with the 
machine. Mr C told us he was offered a new PIN but then Virgin just sent the old one again. 
Mr C told us that when he complained, Virgin said it would ring him within four days, but 
didnt. He got a letter instead, saying Virgin was looking into things. Mr C said Virgin then 
called, and suggested perhaps he wanted to switch banks. Mr C thought it was disgraceful 
that Virgin would suggest that to him, so he added this to his complaint. 
Mr C said when he finally got a response, Virgin only upheld part of his complaint. He 
wanted us to look into what had happened. He said he wanted reasonable compensation for 
the time, the stress and the inconvenience that the bank had caused him. 
Virgin said that its PIN pads do occasionally go wrong, but when they do, the message is 
clearly different to that displayed when an incorrect PIN is input. And its only if the pad 
showed that the wrong PIN had been input that they would send out a PIN reminder, rather 
than a new PIN. So Virgin thought that Mr C may have made a mistake. Virgin said that Mr C 
was still able to take out the money he wanted, because one of the staff in the branch at the 
time knew Mr C, and was able to identify him.
Virgin said Mr C had raised a number of complaints, so it wanted to talk to him and discuss 
the issues he was experiencing. It has apologised to Mr C for any offence caused by this.
Virgin said it received Mr Cs complaint on 5 July 2021, and responded on 16 August. So it 
was within the eight week timescale set by the Financial Conduct Authority. But it hadnt 
contacted him within four days, as it had promised. And it appreciated that he had waited a 
very long time on the phone on 5 July before he was able to make his complaint. Virgin had 
apologised about both of those things. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that whatever had 
gone wrong with Mr Cs PIN, she was satisfied Virgin had found a solution, and minimised 
the impact on Mr C.
Our investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask Virgin to pay Mr C compensation, because 
it had followed its policy of calling people who make a number of complaints. And she said 
Virgin had met the regulatory deadlines for responding to Mr Cs complaint. It also kept him 
updated on progress. She understood it hadnt called him back after four days, but she 
thought it was fair for Virgin to apologise for this, it didnt have to pay compensation as well. 
Virgin had also apologised for how long Mr C was on hold, before he was able to log his 
complaint. Our investigator said she wouldnt ask Virgin to do more than that. 
Mr C said this was a disgrace. He said an injustice had occurred, and we should be able to 
see that. Mr C repeated that hed used his PIN in retail outlets without any problem, but then 
wasnt able to use it in the bank. He said it was embarrassing holding up a queue of 
customers until a staff member recognised him and he was able to take out the money he 
wanted. 
Mr C said hed tried to input his PIN number the maximum number of times. So the cashier 
told him hed need a new PIN, and that meant he couldnt use his card until it arrived. Mr C 
said that caused him great inconvenience, but was a waste of time, as all he got was a 
reminder of his existing PIN. He also thought that meant there were no problems with his 
PIN after all. 
Mr C said that Virgin had paid him £50 for long call wait times over Christmas, on a 
complaint we hadnt been involved in. So he didnt know how we could decide that 
compensation wasnt due this time too. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind, and because no agreement was reached, this case 
was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
This complaint started when Mr C couldnt get money out at a branch. Hes sure he put his 
PIN in correctly. And he also told us that hed entered his PIN three times. But because he 
was sent a PIN reminder, rather than a new PIN, and because his old PIN doesnt seem to 
have been blocked, I dont think Im able to say that its most likely that the machine 
malfunctioned in the way that Mr C has suggested. I think it is more likely that a mistake was 
made.
Its unfortunate that Mr C had understood he was being sent a new PIN, not just a reminder 
of the existing number, because he said that he then didnt use the card for the next two 
days. But Virgin did send this out quickly, as it had promised. And, whilst I cant know what 
purchases Mr C had planned to make in those two days, his transaction history doesnt 
suggest he was relying on the card for daily purchases. 
Although I understand Mr C would have preferred to avoid the embarrassment of keeping 
others in the queue waiting, I do think its important that Mr C was able to make the 
withdrawal that he wanted to make, and was able to do that on the same trip. So, overall, I 
dont think Virgin has to pay Mr C compensation for what happened in the branch.
I know Mr C then didnt have a good experience with the complaint he made. Virgin has 
apologised for keeping him on hold, and for not calling him back. Its also sorry that it took so 
long to actually respond to his complaint, although it did meet the regulatory requirements in 
responding to Mr C. And Virgin said it was sorry if hed found the call about his future 
banking needs offensive or upsetting.I understand that its disappointing when youre expecting a better service, then not to get 
that. But when we look at a complaint, we dont just look to see if somethings gone wrong. 
We also look to see if the business has done enough to put it right. And I can see that Virgin 
has said sorry for the points where it let Mr C down. Like our investigator, I dont think that 
Virgin has to pay compensation too.
Mr C says that cant be right, because Virgin had previously paid him £50 for a complaint 
which only involved one of the many issues that he has raised here. I dont know the details 
of what happened there, because Mr C said that case never came to us. But a bank can 
make a gesture of goodwill to its customers whenever it wants to, and there are many 
reasons why it might choose to do so.
For our service to make a bank pay compensation, in this case, Id have to be able to see 
that it was fair and reasonable to require Virgin to do more than it has already done. And Ive 
not reached that view here. Although I understand Mr C wont agree with me, I think that the 
apology that Mr C has received does do enough to make up for the lapses in service which 
Virgin has acknowledged. Because of that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Im 
sorry that this will be disappointing for Mr C.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman