DRN-2942854
The complaint
F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly delayed then declined its application for a 
business bank account. 
What happened
F has advised it applied for FCA in December 2018 and first discussed a business bank 
account with its relationship manager in February 2019. Lloyds says it couldnt take the 
application forward at that time because Fs FCA permissions hadnt been granted. 
Lloyds says that, around this time, it was reviewing criteria for providing accounts to payment 
service providers (PSPs). In February 2020 Lloyds took the decision to accept applications 
from PSPs. 
Fs FCA permissions were approved at the end of June 2020 and the application was 
considered by Lloyds in the following weeks. Lloyds ultimately said it wasnt willing to 
proceed and reported its decision to the FCA. 
F complained and said the decision was made against the POND principles, set out by the 
FCA, and regulations that set out how credit providers should consider applications. Lloyds 
didnt agree it had made a mistake and said industry guidance allows it to decline 
applications from PSPs. 
Fs directors referred the complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
didnt agree that Lloyds had acted unfairly by declining Fs application. Fs director asked to 
appeal and reiterated that they thought Lloyds had failed to act in line with POND guidance 
and the relevant regulations. As Fs director asked to appeal, its complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background above in less detail than the parties involved. Im 
satisfied all parties are aware of the key events and broadly agree about what happened. No 
discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal nature of our service. Im 
satisfied that our rules dont require me to comment on every point raised and Ive focused 
on what I think are the key issues in this case. But I want to assure both parties that Ive read 
and considered everything thats been provided. 
Its clear the application took a long time before it was declined. I understand Fs frustration, 
but Lloyds has explained that it couldnt approve a bank account for it until the relevant FCA 
permissions were in place. Those permissions werent granted until the end of June 2020 
and the application was considered in the weeks that followed. 
F says Lloyds failed to follow the FCAs POND approach when considering the application. I 
agree the application process took a long time. But I havent been persuaded it was 
unreasonably delayed by Lloyds. I agree that Lloyds couldve been clearer as to why the 
application didnt move forward. I havent found the way Lloyds handled the application 
caused unnecessary delays or that it couldve approved a bank account before the FCA 
confirmed Fs permissions were in place. 
I know F feels Lloyds decision wasnt objective or non discriminatory by virtue of the nature 
and age of the business. But Lloyds is free to decide what criteria to use and what risk to 
accept. Ive looked at industry guidance issued by the Payment Service Regulator 
concerning how a credit institution should treat a PSPs application on a POND basis. The 
guidance says: 
The Treasury states in its consultation that the Regulation (105) does not impose an 
absolute obligation for the credit institution to grant access. The decision to work with a given 
payment institution is still a commercial one, with credit institutions able to take into account 
cost and risk. The guidance goes on to say We agree with this statement. In our view, the 
effect of Regulation 105 is to ensure that credit institutions should consider applications from 
PSPs individually and on their own merits. They should not have policies based on 
restricting access to those services for certain types of PSPs without considering the specific 
risks posed by the business and ways in which an individual PSP might mitigate the risks. 
Ive reviewed the other guidance surrounding Regulation 105 and Lloyds obligations when 
considering an application. As Ive set out above, theres no absolute requirement on Lloyds 
to accept an application and its still a commercial decision to do so. The guidance advises 
businesses can take account costs and risk when deciding whether to proceed. 
Lloyds says its decision to decline Fs application was made on the basis of its criteria and 
the information contained in its application. Ive looked at the internal emails between the 
different parts of Lloyds along with application and supporting information F submitted. Im 
sorry to disappoint the directors of F, but Im satisfied Lloyds did consider the individual 
aspects of its application and that its decision not to proceed was fair and reasonable. 
As Im satisfied Lloyds has dealt with Fs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or reject my decision before 
27 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman