DRN-2491646
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with how much she still owes from a personal loan she took out with 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) in 2001. She thinks that additional charges and interest 
may have been added to the original amount she borrowed. 
Miss W is represented by her son, Mr W. For ease, I will refer only to Miss W throughout.
What happened
In 2001, Miss W took out a personal loan with RBS. In 2006, the account was defaulted after 
Miss W fell behind with her payments. 
In November 2018, Miss W complained to RBS about the amount still owing on the personal 
loan. She said she still owed a significant amount, despite almost certainly having repaid 
more than the original amount of capital and interest due. 
Miss W also complained about the sale of the loan, it unfairly going into default and the sale 
of Payment Protection Insurance (PPI). These issues are being dealt with under separate 
complaint references. This decision focuses solely on the concerns Miss W has about the 
amount she still owes on the loan. 
RBS responded to Miss W about the PPI but not the loan. Miss W asked us to look into what 
had happened.
An investigator here didnt think RBS had done anything wrong in terms of how much it said 
Miss W owed on the loan. 
Miss W asked for the matter to be escalated to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall outcome as the investigator and for similar 
reasons. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss W, but hope that my 
explanation helps her to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
RBS sold the debt to another company in May 2018. Any concerns Miss W has about what 
has happened since then would need to be directed to the company who bought the debt. 
This decision is focused on how much RBS said Miss W owed at the point the debt was 
sold. 
Miss W says that she has almost certainly repaid more than the amount originally due under 
the loan including contractual interest. She is concerned that she owes significant amounts 
of additional interest.
RBS has said that it doesnt have detailed records of the loan account, due to the passage of 
time. This seems reasonable. It has though said that Miss Ws loan was a flat rate personal 
loan. And that all interest and charges for the loan were front-loaded and no further interest 
or charges would have been applied, regardless of how the account was maintained. 
RBS says that when it sold the debt in 2018, the amount relating to the personal loan, was 
£969.72. It has also said the monthly loan repayment amount was £323.24. I note therefore 
that the amount outstanding on the loan was exactly three times the monthly loan 
repayment. This supports RBS assertion that no additional interest or charges were added 
to what Miss W owed in the period between the account going into default and the debt 
being sold.
Miss W hasnt provided any evidence to show that the amount RBS said she owed on the 
loan at the point it sold the debt, was inaccurate.
RBS was entitled to attempt to recover the amount owed by Miss W after the account 
defaulted. There is no evidence that it added any interest or charges to what Miss W owed at 
the point of default. 
It follows that there are no grounds upon which I can reasonably say RBS has made any 
error. I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman