DRN-4218863
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard handled his request for 
help to recover money following the cancellation of a flight and subsequent disruption to his 
trip. 
At times throughout the complaint Mr A has been represented. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to Mr A only in this decision.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr A used his Barclaycard to book flights abroad. Both the outbound and 
inbound flights included a connecting flight and were booked directly with the airline, who Ill 
refer to as Q. The outbound flight was scheduled for mid-December 2021. 
The night before his outbound flight, Mr A received an email from Q explaining that his 
destination airport had been changed, as the government restrictions in the country he was 
visiting meant there were passenger capacity regulations at the original airport. Mr A emailed 
Q immediately, but as he felt it was unlikely he would receive a response prior to the 
scheduled time of his flight, he went ahead with the first part of the journey. Once at the 
connecting airport he spoke to Q and explained what he wanted to happen. Mr A felt he was 
entitled to rerouting to his original destination in accordance with his Air Passenger rights, at 
no additional cost. He also felt he was entitled to compensation for being denied boarding to 
the flight, under Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 (EC261). 
Unable to get a satisfactory response from Q, Mr A took the flight that had been changed 
and travelled to the replacement airport. Once there he had to find accommodation to 
quarantine in, and incurred travel costs as a result. It was a couple of weeks later that 
Mr A was able to travel to his original destination and spend time with his family, prior to 
returning to the UK in January 2022. 
Mr A complained to Q. They said he wasnt entitled to any compensation as he had been 
denied boarding because of government restrictions on passenger capacity, which Q treated 
as an extraordinary circumstance. According to the relevant legislation, Q said this reason 
meant they didnt have to pay compensation. 
Mr A remained unhappy and got in touch with Barclaycard. He asked them to consider his 
evidence and the relevant regulations and to help him get some money back. Barclaycard 
responded and said they couldnt help. They didnt raise a chargeback for Mr A as they didnt 
think there were any grounds for it under the relevant chargeback scheme. They said that 
Section 75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 wouldnt give rise to a successful claim 
either, as Q had offered Mr A an alternative flight which he had accepted. Barclaycard said 
this meant there hadnt been a breach of contract or misrepresentation from Q. 
Mr A didnt accept this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She said she understood why Barclaycard didnt raise a chargeback when Mr A 
got in touch with them. She said she was satisfied Q wouldve been able to raise a defence 
to a chargeback had it been raised. For similar reasons, she also said she thought the s75 
claim had been declined fairly too. She accepted the original contract had been breached, as 
Mr A was unable to fly to his expected destination airport. But our investigator felt this breach 
had been mitigated by Qs offer to reroute him to the alternative airport or to offer him a 
refund if that wasnt acceptable. Because of that she said she didnt think Barclaycard 
needed to do anything more for Mr A. In relation to the relevant legislation Mr A had referred 
to, our investigator said she couldnt consider that, and Mr A could consider taking his 
concerns to an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) provider.
Mr A didnt agree with this. He maintained that the contract had been breached and the 
relevant legislation confirmed he should have been entitled to be rerouted to his original 
destination, as well as receiving compensation. He also felt that a chargeback should have 
been raised by Barclaycard as it was unknown whether it would be successful or not. He felt 
that his opportunity to defend it or offer any comment on it was taken away by Barclaycard 
when they chose not to pursue it. Mr A was also unhappy as Barclaycard had considered a 
claim under s75 without letting him know they would be doing this. At the time he was trying 
to get information from Q which he felt would have supported his claim, should he have 
wanted to make a s75 request once it had been received. 
As Mr A didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. Prior to finalising this decision I got in 
touch with both parties to explain why I thought a breach of contract had occurred and what I 
thought should happen to resolve it. Barclaycard maintained that a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation hadnt occurred in this case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with good or 
services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visa. In certain circumstances 
the process provides a way for Barclaycard to ask for a payment Mr A made to be refunded. 
Those circumstances can include where services arent supplied. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable chance of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under s75.
S75 says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal 
right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
But for s75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement 
and that the purchase meets a certain cash price. 
Its important to note that neither a chargeback nor s75 are a guarantee that a consumer 
recover their funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by 
considering a chargeback first and then, if that isnt viable, to consider whether a valid claim 
exists under s75. Usually, it wont make much difference as to which route a bank follows, so 
long as the bank acts fairly and reasonably in assisting its customer to recover their funds. 
In Mr As case Barclaycard didnt raise a chargeback when he got in touch and provided his 
evidence to them. They told him that, because he had made use of the alternative flight Q 
had provided, they had provided the service to him, and no chargeback right existed 
because of it. As Ive previously said, there wasnt an obligation on Barclaycard to raise a 
chargeback when Mr A got in contact with them. However, Im not going to go into detail in 
this decision about Barclaycards decision not to raise a chargeback for Mr A as Im satisfied 
he had a valid s75 claim. Ill explain why.
The Conditions of Carriage provided by Q to Mr A when he booked his flights confirmed the 
following would happen in the event of a cancellation or a change of schedule. They 
explained that Q would either carry Mr A on another of their scheduled Passenger services 
on which space is available; or reroute him to the destination indicated on his ticket either 
through one of their own scheduled services or the scheduled services of another provider. 
Whilst it could be argued that by providing Mr A with a flight to an alternative airport, Q have 
fulfilled their obligation here, I dont think that is the case. Mr A wasnt given any option other 
than to take the alternative flight or cancel his booking  and the alternative flight was taking 
him approximately 900km away from his original intended destination. I think it would be 
difficult to argue that, by doing that, and by not offering Mr A any other alternative or help to 
reach his intended destination, Q havent breached their contract with him. 
When Mr A got in touch with Q to complain and to ask for his denied boarding 
compensation, Q said it wasnt payable because the reason he couldnt take the flight was 
out of their control and therefore amounted to extraordinary circumstances, which, they 
said, the regulations confirm negates their requirement to pay compensation. But Im more 
persuaded that provision only applies in the event of a cancellation, which wasnt the case 
here. Mr A has provided evidence to Barclaycard and to our service that confirms the original 
flight went ahead as scheduled  so there is no question that he was denied boarding rather 
than the flight being cancelled. 
Barclaycard have said that, because Mr A was informed the evening before his scheduled 
flight that he wouldnt be able to board, his seat on the flight had effectively been cancelled 
rather than him being denied boarding. And, because he was given a choice to accept the 
new flight to the alternative destination or request a refund, they feel Q have explained why 
they couldnt assist and havent breached their contract with Mr A. But I dont agree with 
Barclaycard here. 
Firstly, its important to point out that Mr A didnt accept the new flight arrangements as 
suggested by Barclaycard. The alternative flight details were confirmed to him only a few 
hours before he was due to depart the UK, and he got in touch with Q immediately he was 
aware to explain the new flight details werent going to be suitable for him. But he also felt he 
had no choice other than to start his journey due to the lack of time he had to wait for Q to 
respond. I dont think Mr A made an unreasonable decision here  he was flying several 
thousand miles to see his family over the festive period and the lateness of the notification 
from Q left him with little choice other than to take the first flight and try and sort the matter 
out at the connecting airport. Secondly, as Ive mentioned above the Conditions of Carriage explain that Q will be 
responsible for providing Mr A with alternative options in the event of cancellation or a 
change in schedule. Neither of the options mentioned by them in their Conditions of Carriage 
suggest they can fly Mr A to an alternative airport without offering to reroute him to his 
original destination, either on one of their own scheduled services or by utilising the 
scheduled services of another provider. So, Im not persuaded that, by flying Mr A several 
hundred miles away from his intended destination, Q have adhered to their contract with 
him.
Barclaycard have said that Mr As seat on his original flight was cancelled and acknowledge 
that the flight itself still went ahead as scheduled. They feel that the reasons given by Q to 
limit space on the flight were outside of their control, and therefore werent covered under 
the refund compensation regulations. But I have to disagree with Barclaycard here too.
Article 10 of the Conditions of Carriage applied by Q deals with cancellations and denied 
boarding. Point 4 of Article 10 applies in this case. It says:
Denied Boarding Compensation
If we are unable to provide previously confirmed space, we shall provide compensation to 
those passengers denied boarding in accordance with the applicable Convention and or 
applicable law and or our denied boarding compensation scheme as set out in our 
regulations.
Mr A was denied boarding, or in other words, Q were unable to provide previously confirmed 
space. As such, Mr As request should have been considered under Qs denied boarding 
scheme as set out in Qs regulations, as per the term in the Conditions of Carriage above. 
And the regulations confirmed by Q state that Mr A, in this case, should have been entitled 
to compensation of £520 for being denied boarding to the flight. EC261 confirms the 
following in relation to denied boarding:
4.4
A. Compensation in the event of denied boarding
4.4.1 Compensation, denied boarding and exceptional circumstances
Articles 2(j) and 4(3) of the Regulation must be interpreted as meaning that compensation is 
always due in the event of denied boarding and air carriers cannot validly justify an instance 
of denied boarding and be exempted from paying compensation to passengers by invoking 
extraordinary circumstances.
As there is no doubt the original flight went ahead as scheduled without Mr A, its reasonable 
to conclude that he was denied boarding and that Q have incorrectly denied him 
compensation for that, as per the regulations written into their contract with him. In the 
circumstances of this case they cant use extraordinary circumstances as a reason for not 
paying Mr A the denied boarding compensation and as such I think it would be difficult to 
argue his contract with Q hasnt been breached. 
Not only has Mr A been denied the compensation, he has also suffered additional costs by 
having to fly to the alternative airport rather than his chosen one, such as taxi costs to take 
him from the airport to the hotel hed had to arrange at the last-minute to allow him to 
quarantine. He had to pay a cancellation fee for the hotel hed booked at his original 
destination, and he also incurred some call costs trying to sort this matter out. In addition, he had to pay for another flight from the alternative airport to the original, intended destination 
so he could take his flight back to the UK. The denied boarding compensation and the 
additional costs incurred by Mr A total £750. I think its fair that he is reimbursed that amount. 
I also think Barclaycard should have done more to investigate Mr As claim in more detail. 
The terms and conditions from Q set out what Mr A could expect, and I think Barclaycard 
had enough evidence for them to consider Mr As s75 claim in more detail than theyve 
shown in this case. Because of that, Im asking Barclaycard to pay Mr A compensation of 
£250 in addition to what Ive decided hes entitled to following Qs actions. 
My decision is that Barclaycard should pay Mr A £1,000 in total. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard must:
Pay Mr A £750 for being denied boarding to his flight and the regulations not being 
followed, as well as his additional costs incurred because of this. 
Pay Mr A £250 compensation for failing to apply the terms correctly when 
considering his s75 claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman