DRN-3328369
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) called him 
unnecessarily about his buy to let mortgage. He says this was despite it being aware of his 
health issues and that he doesnt like to talk about his debts. He asks for feedback to the 
staff involved and compensation for his time, stress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr L had a buy to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. Mr L was made bankrupt in 2019 
and discharged in January 2020. The bankruptcy ended Mr Ls responsibly for his debts. 
However, Birmingham Midshires can try to recover what its owed from the security property, 
which Mr L still owns.
Mr L made a complaint in 2020 that Birmingham Midshires hadnt taken possession of the 
property. Birmingham Midshires called Mr L in April 2021. It wanted to update him about an 
LPA receiver being appointed in relation to his buy to let mortgage.
Mr L says the call became contentious through no fault of his. He didnt know why 
Birmingham Midshires was calling and he says there were problems with its security process 
and questions. Mr L says he was with other people who could overhear the call. Mr L said 
hed previously provided evidence from his GP about his health and avoiding conversations 
about his debt. He says the caller was poorly prepared, the call was unnecessary and it led 
to him feeling very low. Mr L said it was agreed on a previous call that Birmingham Midshires 
wouldnt phone him on his mobile number and asked that the investigator listen to this call.
Our investigator said while he understood Mr L was upset by the call, Birmingham Midshires 
acted in good faith. It wanted to update him about what was happening with the property. He 
said, after listening to the call recording as requested by Mr L, there was no discussion about 
telephone numbers or not calling Mr L. Our investigator said Birmingham Midshires 
apologised and removed Mr Ls telephone number from its complaints database, and it didnt 
need to do more.
Mr L didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L found the call from Birmingham Midshires in April 2021 upsetting. He asked us to listen 
to a call in September 2020, in which he said it was agreed Birmingham Midshires wouldnt 
call him on his mobile. He said Birmingham Midshires agreed to make no phone calls and no 
further communication. Ive listened to this call, which was with Mr L and one of Birmingham 
Midshires complaints handlers. The call was about Mr Ls complaint that Birmingham 
Midshires hadnt taken possession of the security property  something he said should have 
happened some time ago. The complaint handler said shed ensure that this was 
progressed. She asked Mr L if he wanted an update and he said he wasnt bothered. Mr L 
told us he thought it was left that he didnt want to be contacted unless Birmingham 
Midshires needed to let him know something of importance.
Having listened to the recording, I dont think that the parties agreed Birmingham Midshires 
wouldnt call Mr L. Birmingham Midshires sent a final response letter the same day and there 
was no mention in the letter of it not contacting Mr L. 
I think the context of the call Birmingham Midshires made in April 2021 is important. Mr L 
had felt strongly enough about what he saw as unnecessary delays in taking possession of 
the security property to make a complaint. Birmingham Midshires had told Mr L it would 
review the matter in late 2020, with the intention of appointing an LPA receiver once 
restrictions on lenders taking action for possession had ended. In the circumstances, I can 
see why Birmingham Midshires thought it right to provide an update to Mr L about what was 
happening with the property  which after all he still legally owned. I can also understand 
that Mr L wasnt expecting the call in April 2021, which as he said must have come out of 
the blue. 
There were difficulties with completing the security process for the call. Mr L didnt know why 
Birmingham Midshires was calling, and it couldnt tell him until he passed its security. Mr L 
says Birmingham Midshires should have applied greater discretion around the security 
questions and what information was being given to him. Mr L was clearly frustrated about 
this. But I need to be fair to both parties. 
Birmingham Midshires didnt know before it made the call that the correspondence address it 
had for Mr L was out of date. This came to light when Birmingham Midshires asked security 
questions and Mr Ls answers didnt match with its records. Its process then required that it 
ask extra questions, such as questions about the security property. Mr L had had more than 
one buy to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires and hadnt actively managed his 
account for some time, so I can understand why he couldnt immediately recall the details to 
answer the questions. However, his other properties had been taken into possession and 
sold in 2017, so I dont think the complaints handler could reasonably have known before 
making the call that Mr L wouldnt know which property she was asking about.
Birmingham Midshires requires staff to follow a security process to ensure they are speaking 
to the right person. The circumstances made that process difficult here. But I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Birmingham Midshires to follow its security process.
Mr L says he was on the call for 45 minutes, which was excessive. It was a long call  nearly 
40 minutes. Mr L put the call on hold while he dealt with another call. And, unfortunately, a 
large part of the call was taken up with the discussion about Birmingham Midshires security 
process. I dont think Birmingham Midshires could reasonably have known beforehand the 
call would take this long. I can appreciate Mr L wouldnt have wanted other people to 
overhear the discussion, but Birmingham Midshires didnt know that other people were 
present (this isnt apparent from the call recording). 
Mr L had provided a phone number which was only to be used in relation to the complaint he 
made in 2020. Following Mr Ls complaint about the call in April 2021, Birmingham Midshires 
also removed Mr Ls phone numbers from its complaints teams database. Birmingham 
Midshires has told Mr L that it has no means of contacting him or providing further updates. 
It provided details for Mr L to get in contact, if he wants to do so. 
Im sorry that Mr L found the call so upsetting. I think Birmingham Midshires acted in good 
faith when it made the call, believing Mr L would appreciate an update on the security 
property. The staff member calling Mr L explained the need for the security questions and 
was courteous throughout. She explained that the notes on the complaint file suggested Mr L might want an update about his complaint (about delays with his property being taken 
into possession) and thought a phone call would be the quickest way to do this. I dont think 
it was unreasonable or unfair for Birmingham Midshires to make the call. It apologised for 
the upset caused by the call, and Mr Ls phone numbers have been removed from the 
complaints database. I think Birmingham Midshires has done enough to put matters right 
and I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require it to pay 
compensation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman