DRN-4279644
The complaint
Mr C complains Hastings Insurance Services Limited, trading as Hastings Direct, (Hastings) 
sold him a motorbike insurance policy with terms which didnt reflect what hed bought.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr C took out a motorbike insurance policy with Hastings. Mr C added 
Personal Accident Insurance (PA Cover) as an optional extra. 
In March 2023, Hastings wrote to Mr C to explain the PA Cover had been unknowingly mis-
sold. This is because the online sales journey wrongly said the cover extended to pillion 
passengers. Although, it noted the policy document issued to Mr C after buying the policy 
correctly set out what was covered.
Mr C was unhappy, and a complaint was raised. Hastings offered Mr C compensation of £30 
for the upset caused. It also gave Mr C the option to cancel the policy with a full refund of the 
premium paid in October even though hed been on cover since then. 
Mr C didnt agree so brought his complaint to this service. To put things right, he wants 
Hastings to send him and his partner a written apology for its actions and distress caused. 
He also wants the premium refunded to him whilst the policy remains active for the rest of 
the policy year, so his no claims bonus isnt affected. Finally, he wants compensation for the 
stress and upset caused by putting the lives of Mr Cs partner and other passengers at risk.
When responding to this service, Hastings said the Motor Legal Expenses cover Mr C has, 
covers pillion passengers when making personal injury claims and notes a passenger may 
instigate a personal injury claim using their own means. Further, it says as Mr C didnt 
choose to cancel his policy for a full refund to take out insurance which does offer PA Cover 
for passengers, it cant agree he specifically bought the policy for the PA Cover.
An Investigator considered matters and thought the offer from Hastings was fair and 
reasonable, so they didnt ask it to do more to put things right. Mr C disagreed. He asks 
where the consumers rights are  the public always get the kicking and get slammed. And 
explained he didnt choose to cancel the policy because he doesnt want to lose a years no 
claims bonus and start again. 
This matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr C Im satisfied the Investigator reached a fair outcome as I 
agree the business made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right. Ill explain why.
The key facts about this arent in dispute. Hastings has admitted it got things wrong when its 
unknowingly mis-sold Mr C the PA Cover optional extra to his motorbike insurance policy in 
October 2022. The only issue I therefore need to decide is whether the things it has done to 
put this right, including the compensation its offered, is fair and reasonable.
I think its important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate 
consumers, not punish organisations. We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the 
consumer concerned. I can see from what has been said by Mr C he has been very 
concerned by what couldve happened. But I think Hastings took this matter seriously when it 
realised a mistake had been made. It proactively contacted Mr C, apologised, and agreed to 
cancel his policy and refund the premium. It also offered £30 compensation for any distress 
caused by the mistake. I believe this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I know Mr C wants Hastings to refund the full premium while leaving the motorbike insurance 
policy in place. But Mr C has had the benefit of the policy held since October 2022. So, I 
dont agree itd be fair or reasonable to require Hastings to do this.
Mr C says the PA Cover was a key reason for him taking out this particular policy with 
Hastings. But I dont see things the same way. I say this because insurers make it clear a 
consumer must check to ensure the details are correct in the policy documents. It was 
clearly stated on the PA Cover product information document the only person covered under 
this optional extra was Mr C. So, I think its reasonable to have expected Mr C to notice this 
if it was a key requirement. I also note he didnt accept the offer to cancel his policy for a full 
refund due to wanting to gain a year of no claims bonus. And he wants the policy to remain 
in place for free. This doesnt suggest the PA Cover was the key reason for him choosing the 
policy. In any event, as Hastings has pointed out, there was an option in place for a 
passenger who was injured, both under the policy and generally.
I know Mr C wants compensation which reflects the grave danger he and his passengers 
realise theyd faced once they were told by Hastings they hadnt been covered. But my role 
is to consider whether Hastings acted fairly and reasonably in putting things right in relation 
to the mistake it made and the impact this actually had, rather than the impact it could have 
had if the facts had been different. And, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied it has.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Hastings  can do for him.
Putting things right
Hastings Insurance Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £30 distress and 
inconvenience to Mr C to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
In light of the above, my final decision is that Hastings Insurance Services Limited should 
pay £30 to Mr C to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman