DRN-3642927
The complaint
Mr D complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2020, Mr D acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr D was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £202. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £11,916.
Mr D says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit search and verifying Mr Ds 
monthly income with the credit reference agency. It then used a third-party database to 
estimate the amount of Mr Ds non-discretionary expenditure. It said Mr D signed the 
contract and explanation document confirming his income and expenditure amounts and it 
noted the agreement replaced a previous car finance agreement which had higher monthly 
repayments.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr D.
Moneybarn didnt agree and said as well as the monthly income of £2,017 recorded by our 
investigator Mr D was receiving regular payments from another source towards bills. It said 
this increased his monthly income to an average of £2,490 against expenditure of around 
£1,450 (excluding a previous motor finance payment that had been replaced by his 
Moneybarn agreement). It said this left Mr D with over £1,000 a month for food, fuel and his 
payments of £202 for the agreement. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Moneybarn has said that a credit check was carried out which showed no county court 
judgements and one historic default. Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it 
completed. Ive therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr D. I think this gives 
a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. It shows that Mr D defaulted on 
several accounts between end 2017 and mid 2018 as well as defaulting on a mail order 
account in July 2019. While these were historic, I think the number of defaults should have 
raised concerns. 
So, while Mr Ds credit report didnt show issues with his active accounts at the time of 
application, given his previous issues managing his finances and noting the duration and 
size of the loan, I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more 
thorough understanding of Mr Ds financial circumstances before lending to ensure he could 
sustainably meet the repayments.
Moneybarn recorded Mr Ds monthly income as £1,692 and said this was verified with a 
credit reference agency. I find this reasonable. It recorded Mr Ds non-discretionary 
expenses as being around £965. This figure was calculated using statistical data from a 
third-party database. While this can be an appropriate approach in certain circumstances, 
given Mr Ds credit report showed he had previously struggled financially and having noted 
the repayments needed to be maintained over 59 months, I think it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate to have understood Mr Ds specific financial circumstances, 
rather than relying on an estimate.  
I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have found out more about Mr Ds 
committed expenditure, such as his living costs. I cant be sure exactly what Moneybarn 
would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would be 
reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Ds bank 
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mr D was paying on average around £2,100 towards his committed living 
expenditure (including rent, utilities, several payments to debt collection companies, payday 
loans, insurance, food and fuel). This shows that the agreement wasnt affordable. I note that 
had further checks been carried out it is likely that Moneybarn would have identified that as 
well as his salary, Mr D was receiving around £324 a month in benefits. Taking this into 
account increases his monthly income to around £2,017 which still wouldnt have left him 
with enough disposable income to afford the repayments on the agreement.
I note Moneybarns comments that Mr D was also receiving payments from a third party 
which it appeared to be for payment of bills. I appreciate that had further questions been 
asked Mr D may have said he received contributions towards bills. However, having looked 
through the statements these arent regular amounts and it isnt clear they could be relied 
on. Even if these receipts were taken into account it would leave Mr D with minimal funds 
after the agreement repayments.
Given the term of the agreement over which the repayments needed to be maintained and 
noting Mr Ds credit history, I think that had Moneybarn completed proportionate checks, its 
likely it would have discovered the agreement wasnt sustainably affordable. It therefore 
didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr D should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £6,360. Anything Mr D has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ds complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr D has made in excess of £6,360, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr D asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman