DRN-2656495
The complaint
Miss F complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds (Acromas) decision to 
decline cover for two claims under her roadside assistance insurance. Miss F is also 
unhappy Acromas didnt reinstate her policy. 
What happened
Miss F called Acromas for assistance in May 2020 and followed this up with a claim. 
Acromas declined the claim having discovered Miss F had obtained a diagnosis from an 
engineer and was therefore in breach of the terms and conditions. Miss F complained and 
asked Acromas to cancel her policy. Miss F later re-joined and made another claim in 
August. This claim was declined on the basis the issue pre-existed the start of the new 
policy. Miss F complained and Acromas responded and referred to the terms and conditions 
and said the policy doesnt cover any faults which existed prior to the purchase of the cover. 
They didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss F. He thought that Acromas hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining Miss Fs claims. Miss F disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss F will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The first claim
My starting point is Miss Fs policy documentation which sets out the terms and conditions of 
her policy. The Terms and conditions booklet, explains Miss F is covered for roadside 
assistance following a breakdown. And, the Breakdown Repair Cover booklet, defines a 
breakdown as a sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle. And,that 
has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely. It also 
says under a section headed General Exclusions, the policy will not cover any costs for 
repairs following a mechanical or electrical failure if Miss F refers the failure to a garage 
before she calls for assistance under her membership. It also says 
Please note that Mechanical or Electrical Failures must cause a sudden and 
unexpected Breakdown, this policy will not cover failures that You were previously 
aware of or have been made aware of or that are not directly related to the cause of 
the Breakdown.   
Ive listened to the phone call between Miss F and Acromas to address her complaint about 
her claim being declined. During the conversation, the call handler refers to Miss Fs call to 
Acromas to report the claim. The call handler says Miss F told them a mechanic had made 
her aware of the problem with her car and she then drove the car away and then phoned 
Acromas. The call handler explains this wasnt an incident involving a breakdown. 
So, taking this all into account, I dont think Acromas have acted unreasonably in declining 
Miss Fs claim. I say this because theres a number of reasons which show Acromas have 
made this decision in line with the terms and conditions. Firstly, this event didnt involve a 
breakdown. There wasnt a mechanical or electrical failure which caused Miss Fs car to 
suddenly or unexpectedly breakdown. And, the problem with the car didnt prevent Miss F 
from continuing her journey safely. Secondly, Miss F was made aware of a problem prior to 
contacting Acromas  and this falls within the general exclusions of her policy.  
Reinstating the policy
During the call to deal with Miss Fs first claim, she asks for her policy to be cancelled. The 
call handler then explains shes processed the cancellation and lets Miss F know the date 
the cover will end. Miss F says she later decided to reinstate the policy and contacted 
Acromas. She says she was told she would get a return call but this never happened. Miss F 
has provided an itemised phone bill which shows two calls made to Acromas around a week 
after she cancels the policy. The first call is under two minutes and the second call is just 
under 20 minutes. 
Acromas say they have no record of Miss F calling to ask for the policy to be reinstated. 
They say, even if she had, they wouldnt have been able to resurrect it under any 
circumstances. They say, once a membership is terminated, a consumer cant re-commence 
that same policy. Acromas have provided their system notes but I cant see any evidence of 
a phone call where Miss F asks for the policy to be reinstated or of her being promised a 
return call. Looking at Miss Fs itemised phone bill, its clear from the first calls duration, this 
isnt a call during which a substantive conversation takes place. So, even if this was the call 
during which Miss F is told shell get a return call, I think the second calls duration suggests 
a more detailed call does take place. I cant say with any certainty what was discussed 
during this call, but I dont think this makes a difference to the complaint relating to 
reinstatement of the policy. I say this because, whether a call back was promised or not, this 
wouldnt have led to Miss Fs policy being reinstated as that isnt in line with Acromas policy. 
So, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.      
The second claim
Around two months after Miss F cancels the policy she re-joins over the internet and takes 
out a policy in August. Miss F then makes a claim over two weeks later. This claim is 
declined by Acromas on the basis it was pre-existing at the time Miss F took out her policy in 
August. This claim appears to relate to an issue different to the one in the first claim. 
The Breakdown Repair Cover booklet says, under a section headed General Exclusions, 
the policy will not cover any costs for repairs following a mechanical or electrical failure if the 
faults existed prior to the purchase of the cover. This is the exclusion Acromas are relying 
on, so Ive looked to see whether this is fair and reasonable.  
Insurers often appoint engineers experienced in this type of work to look at any faults, and 
thats what Acromas did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Acromas to rely 
on the engineers comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Acromas instructed 
an engineer to inspect Miss Fs car and the parts which were reported as faulty. The 
engineer concluded:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that in the absence 
of any sudden mechanical breakage the fault would be considered the result of 
general in service wear and deterioration which would not be unexpected of a vehicle of this age type and mileage. The condition would have been developing at policy 
inception.   
An engineer is qualified to comment on any faults with a car so it was reasonable for 
Acromas to take into account the engineers findings to assist their decision on whether to 
settle the claim. The information shows the engineer inspects Miss Fs car, identifies the fault 
and describes the reasons why the fault isnt something which has arisen after the start of 
the policy. I think the information theyve considered is relevant to carry out an assessment 
and to then form an opinion. So, taking this into account, I cant say Acromas have acted 
unfairly in relying on the engineers findings to assess whether the fault was pre-existing. 
I note Miss F has raised a number of points questioning the engineers findings. She 
disagrees the fault was down to wear and tear and refers to a report from the breakdown 
recovery driver which says the clutch cylinder is broken. Ive seen this report and, while it 
does refer to the part being broken, it does go on to say that Miss F should get any faults 
checked out before any repairs are carried out. I can see those faults have been checked, 
and in my opinion quite thoroughly inspected, by an engineer who says the breakdown was 
caused by gradual deterioration rather than it being sudden and unexpected. I do want to 
reassure Miss F that I have carefully considered her comments, but nothing I have seen 
challenges, or otherwise leads me to doubt, the opinion of the engineer.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman