DRN-3200738
The complaint
Mr G complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid his travel
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr G took out a No Limits Gold single trip travel insurance policy. He was due to go abroad
on 24 March 2020 for a week. On 11 March the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared
Covid-19 to be a pandemic and on 17 March the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)
advised against all but essential travel abroad.
Mr G holiday cancelled his holiday and made a claim for around £850 in non-refundable
accommodation costs. URV declined the claim on the basis that pandemics were excluded
under the terms of the policy as was FCO advice applicable at the point of departure. Mr G
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint on the basis that
Mr G wasnt covered if he travelled, but also not covered if he cancelled. URV didnt agree
and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.
In September 2021 I issued my provisional decision. I said: 
Rules and guidance set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that 
insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken 
these rules and guidance into account when considering this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy, on page 12 entitled Your pre-travel policy  if you
are unable to go on your trip (Policy A Section 1) set out the circumstances under which
URV will pay for pre-paid costs, which cannot be recovered from any other source. 
These are if the policyholder is unable to travel because;
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured 
or dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip 
starts. you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you or a travel companion have been made redundant.
you or a travel companion being unable to travel due to the requirements of 
HM forces.
Mr G was unable to travel due to circumstances beyond his control. But the trip wasnt 
cancelled for any of the above reasons. So, there isnt a valid reason for a cancellation 
claim to be paid under this policy.
There is no section of the policy which provides cover for the circumstances Mr G found 
himself in. This means I dont think the claim is covered under the terms and conditions 
of the policy.
Our investigator thought URV should pay the claim outside of a strict interpretation of the 
policy terms and conditions. This was on the basis that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
Mr G to be left in a position where he had no cover for cancelling the trip due to a change 
in FCO advice but to also have no cover if he had gone ahead and travelled in the event 
that it was possible for him to do so.
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation 
wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its 
fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and 
conditions.
However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided by URV, as 
well as the terms and conditions of the policy. Ive also had regard to the industry rules 
and guidance which Ive mentioned above, as well as the relevant law (including the unfair 
terms provisions in the Consumer Rights Act 2015).
The IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the 
policy in a way thats easy to understand. The IPID relating to this policy, at the top of 
page 1, says;
The following summary does not contain the full terms and conditions of the 
contract which can be found in your policy documentation. The agreed sums 
insured are specified in your policy schedule.
Page 1 of the IPID also has a section which says, Are there any restrictions on 
cover? which says;
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to 
your destination.
The IPID doesnt specify that there is no cover for cancellation claims due to a change in 
FCO advice. But Ive also gone on to consider the terms and conditions - which are the 
contract between Mr G and URV.
Page 5 of the terms and conditions of the policy, under the heading Summary of Cover 
says that cover is only provided under Policy A Section 1 provided;
cancellation is not because of the failure of your travel agent, tour operator or due to 
the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Page 11, under the heading Conditions and exclusions applying to your policies, says;
You are not covered under any section, unless specified, for any of the following 
circumstances: You travelling against the advice or recommendations published by the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office applicable at the time of your departure.
Page 12 of the terms and conditions of the policy, which Ive already referred to above 
as outlining the cover available under Policy A Section 1, says;
BE AWARE! No cover is provided under this section due to; 
the advice or recommendation of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office 
applicable at the time of your departure.
So, the cancellation section of the policy highlights a specific exclusion for claims made 
because of FCO advice.
Although Mr G may have been in the position of having no cover under this policy if he 
travelled on 24 March 2020 and also having no cover if he cancelled, I think these 
exclusions are clearly and transparently set out in the terms and conditions of his policy. It 
was up to Mr G to ensure he had the level of cover he required to meet his needs and if 
he wanted cover for cancellation due to changes in FCO advice, its likely he couldve 
found another policy on the market which wouldve covered the situation he found himself 
in.
I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept 
this claim.
URV didnt add any further comments. Mr G said that he was disappointed with my 
provisional decision which relied on the letter of the law rather than justice. He said that I 
hadnt considered that URV hadnt refunded him the cost of the premium he paid. 
Following my provisional decision our investigator contacted URV to ask whether, in the 
circumstances, theyd be prepared to offer Mr G any refund of his premiums. URV said it 
was prepared to offer Mr G a refund of 75% of his premiums. Mr C accepted that offer. So, I 
now need to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think there are any reasons for me to reach a different conclusion to 
that which I reached in my provisional decision. I remain satisfied that it was fair and 
reasonable for URV to decline to cover Mr Gs claim for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision. I appreciate that Mr G feels that my decision relies more on the letter of 
the law than justice. However, I think that URV fairly declined the claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions which form the contract of insurance. 
URV has now agreed to refund Mr G 75% of his insurance premiums as hes requested. I 
dont think theres anything further they need to do in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman