DRN-3438834
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) failed to 
update her address details, meaning she didnt receive arrears and default notices resulting 
in a default being recorded on her credit file.
What happened
Miss H held two credit card accounts with Barclays. Ill refer to them as account A and 
account B. Both accounts were subject to repayment plans requiring Miss H to make agreed 
repayments each month to each account.
In early 2019, Miss H changed address and provided the new details to Barclays. Miss H 
then changed address again in July 2019 and later provided these details to Barclays.
Miss H says she continued to make the agreed repayments to both accounts but somehow 
there were a few missed payments. Miss H says she didnt realise this until it was too late, 
and Barclays had recorded a default on her credit file in respect of account B.
Miss H spoke to Barclays and discovered that while theyd updated her new address on 
account A, they hadnt updated her address on account B. This meant Miss H hadnt 
received any statements or letters from Barclays about the arrears and the default.
Miss H complained to Barclays as she thought theyd been negligent. Miss H said had she 
known about the situation; she wouldve paid the arrears avoiding the default. 
Barclays didnt agree theyd made a mistake in recording the default for account B as Miss H 
had failed to make the agreed payments after February 2021. They said theyd sent all 
appropriate letters and notices to her. When the arrears werent cleared, they recorded the 
default. However, Barclays agreed that while the default was correct, they hadnt updated 
her address correctly so Miss H wouldnt have received their letters in the post.
To resolve Miss Hs complaint, Barclays removed the late payment markers and default 
theyd recorded on her credit file. They offered Miss H compensation of £100 to 
acknowledge the upset and inconvenience caused.
Miss H didnt accept Barclays offer and decided to refer her complaint to this service. She 
said shed incurred additional costs and interest charges when arranging a mortgage to 
purchase a house. She thought Barclays mistake made them responsible for those 
additional costs. She didnt think the compensation offered by Barclays was enough. 
Having looked at all the information available, our investigator agreed Barclays had made a 
mistake when changing Miss Hs address and thought her complaint should be upheld. But 
our investigator didnt think Barclays should increase their offer of compensation. 
Miss H didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, as an agreement couldnt be 
reached, Miss Hs complaint has been passed to me to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are certain facts in this complaint that are not in dispute. Miss H did fail to make all the 
required payments to her credit card account(s). Barclays did fail to update Miss Hs address 
details on both her accounts. What I need to decide here is whether Barclays made a 
mistake by recording the missed payments and a default on Miss Hs credit file. In deciding 
that, its important to acknowledge the default was only recorded in relation to account B. 
Account A was repaid in full, so no default was recorded for that one.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. From the information Ive seen, it 
appears the arrears on Miss Hs account met this requirement. So, it doesnt appear 
Barclays did anything wrong when they issued a default notice and recorded this on Miss Hs 
credit file. 
However, because Barclays hadnt correctly updated Miss Hs address details, she didnt 
receive statements, notices and letters about the situation on account B. I accept that 
Barclays have a responsibility to send arrears notices and defaults to Miss H. The evidence 
shows they did that  unfortunately to the wrong address.
Ive looked closely at Miss Hs address history. She says she changed address in January 
2019. But it appears she didnt tell Barclays for four months. When she did, Barclays 
updated account B but not account A. Miss H says she changed address again in August 
2019. But it appears she didnt tell Barclays about this for almost 16 months. When she did, 
Barclays updated account A but not account B.
My initial observation is that Barclays shouldve updated all accounts held by Miss H as soon 
as they became aware of any change. Barclays agree they made a mistake here. However, I 
also think Miss H had a responsibility to ensure Barclays were informed promptly of any 
address change. And that doesnt appear to have happened here.
Ive next considered whether Miss H shouldve reasonably been aware there were payment 
arrears on her account(s). I understand the payments were being made by standing order 
from a bank account held by Miss H. Barclays have provided evidence confirming the 
standing order payments to account B were returned unpaid on six occasions between 
November 2020 and July 2021. The standing order was then cancelled in August 2021. As 
these were originating from Miss Hs own bank account, I think its reasonable to expect her 
to have been aware the payments hadnt been completed as agreed.
Barclays confirm Miss H had opted to receive statements and other communications in both 
paper and paperless format. The latter means that copies of all documents were made 
available for Miss H to view using Barclays online banking service or smart device 
application (app). Barclays say they email customers when something new is uploaded to 
this service. Miss H says she didnt receive those emails. But that doesnt mean the 
information wasnt available for her to view. Miss H could also obtain details of her account 
using Barclays telephone banking service  something Im aware shed previously used.
So, having considered everything, while I agree Barclays made a mistake by not updating 
Miss Hs address details, I also think Miss H had a responsibility to check her accounts 
(current and credit card) regularly. And I think she had alternative options and the ability to 
do that. Had she done so; I think this wouldve made her aware of the arrears situation. 
In accepting their mistake, Barclays have removed late payment markers and the default 
from Miss Hs credit file. And while it appears Barclays made no mistake recording them, this 
is a very fair outcome for Miss H. 
Barclays have also offered Miss H compensation of £100. Compensation is a personal thing. 
What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be considered so by another. Miss H did 
fail to make agreed payments and the ICO guidance suggests a default shouldve been recorded. I appreciate Miss H did experience some inconvenience. But I think the amount 
offered feels fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that Miss H doesnt agree. But it 
isnt the role of this service to make awards in order to penalise Barclays for their mistakes. 
Any award is considered based upon the impact Barclayss mistake had upon Miss H. And I 
think their offer does that here. So, while I will be upholding Miss Hs complaint and 
endorsing Barclays offer of compensation, I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Hs complaint.
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to pay compensation to Miss H of 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman