DRN-4026247
The complaint
Mr H complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) didnt carry out proportionate and relevant affordability checks before it lent to 
him. 
What happened
Mr H was advanced two instalment loans by MoneyBoat, and a summary of his borrowing 
can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsinstalment 
amount
1 £400.00 08/12/2020 18/12/2020 3 £176.69
2 £700.00 29/12/2020 outstanding 4 £273.23
Mr H has had some problems repaying his final loan and based on the statement of account 
provided by MoneyBoat an outstanding balance remains due.
Following Mr Hs complaint MoneyBoat wrote to him explaining why it wasnt going to uphold 
his complaint. Mr H didnt agree, and he referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was reviewed by an adjudicator, and he upheld the complaint in full. He 
explained why the credit search results showed that Mr H already had significant arrears on 
his mortgage, a hire purchase (HP) agreement as well as his utilities. In the adjudicators 
view this meant Mr H would be unlikely to repay the loans sustainably. 
MoneyBoat didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
As no agreement has been received the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr H complaint. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Loan 1
For this loan, Mr H declared he had a monthly income of £2,350. MoneyBoat says this figure 
was checked with a credit reference agency for its accuracy. Mr H also declared his 
expenditure to be around £485 per month. However, as part of the affordability check 
MoneyBoat said it did the following.
On your loan applications we increased the monthly expenditure that you input, on 
the basis that your credit report highlighted different expenditure than you had 
disclosed, and/or to bring you in line with the average expenditure listed on the 
Common Financial Statement.
As a result of these additional checks, MoneyBoat increased Mr Hs monthly expenditure by 
£365. Giving him a total monthly outgoings of £850. This left £1,500 per month of disposable 
income to meet the repayments Mr H was committed to making. Based solely on the income 
and expenditure information the loan looked affordable.  
MoneyBoat says a credit check was carried out before this loan was granted, and a copy of 
the results have been provided to the Financial Ombudsman. Ive reviewed the results and 
like the adjudicator Im concerned by the information that MoneyBoat was provided in it. 
MoneyBoat was on notice because the credit checks showed it, that Mr H was in severe 
mortgage arrears, had been in significant arrears with a HP agreement since January 2020 
and had recently started to fall behind with his payments towards his gas and electricity. MoneyBoat was therefore on notice from its own credit check results, that Mr H was 
struggling to repay and manage his outstanding credit commitments  and one of these was 
a priority debt in the form of his mortgage. Knowing this, I dont think MoneyBoat ought to 
have approved this loan because Mr H had demonstrated that he wasnt able to keep on top 
of his current debts and was likely experiencing some form of financial difficulties. 
MoneyBoat shouldnt have approved this loan and I am upholding Mr Hs complaint about it. 
Loan 2
As far as I can see the checks for this loan were identical to the checks that were carried out 
before loan 1. So, MoneyBoat asked Mr H for details of his income and expenditure. 
For this loan, Mr H declared his income was still about the same at £2,360 and had declared 
outgoings of £550. However, as before, following further checks by MoneyBoat it increased 
his monthly expenditure by a further £304. Leaving him with £1,246 a month disposable 
income, which was enough to make his commitments of around £273 per month. 
Ive also reviewed the credit check results provided by MoneyBoat and these are broadly 
similar to loan 1. Mr H was still in arrears with his mortgage, HP and his two utilities. The 
results being similar isnt surprising given this loan was taken out in the same month as loan 
1. 
But in saying that, Mr Hs financial position  from the credit search results showed no 
change in Mr Hs financial position. He was still significantly in arrears with a number of 
credit facilities and knowing this I dont think MoneyBoat could have reasonably concluded 
that Mr H could repay this loan in a sustainable manner. 
Like loan 1, I am also upholding Mr Hs complaint about this loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr H at all, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr H loans 1 and 2. If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything MoneyBoat as already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr H which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
upheld outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr H as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr H 
having made overpayments then MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 
8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr H. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr H. 
E. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in 
relation to loans 1 and 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
Mr H had told us and has provided evidence of his financial difficulties at the moment 
especially with regards to his mortgage. Its also likely, given what Ive seen that after the 
redress is carried out above, he will still have an outstanding balance to pay. So, I want to 
remind MoneyBoat that it will need to consider these financial difficulties when discussing a 
way forward and treat Mr H fairly and with forbearance  as the regulations say it should do. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint in full.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr H as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman