DRN-3716134
The complaint
Mr P complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr P was provided with a £8,000 48-month fixed sum loan by Shawbrook in January 2020. 
He says that at the time he had a poor credit rating and that had adequate checks taken 
place Shawbrook would have realised that his spending was higher than stated on his 
application. Mr P says he didnt include his payday loans in his credit commitments as he 
thought he only needed to include long term loans, but he says these would have been 
visible on his credit file. Mr P says that had adequate checks taken place, Shawbrook would 
have realised the lending wasnt affordable.
Shawbrook said that the loan was provided for consolidation reasons as well as additional 
funds. It said before lending to Mr P it carried out credit worthiness and affordability checks 
and Mr P met its required conditions. It said that it verified Mr Ps stated annual income 
electronically and had a call with Mr P before the funds were released. It noted that Mr P had 
made his repayments without issues (aside form one month when he was two days late) and 
that the checks didnt show signs he was in financial difficulty. It said it wasnt aware of his 
gambling until Mr P raised his complaint.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought that Shawbrook should have taken 
more steps to build a clearer picture of Mr Ps financial situation at the time. But found that 
had this happened there wasnt anything that would have meant Shawbrook should have 
considered the lending unaffordable.  
Mr P didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He said his bank statements showed he didnt 
have the money to make the repayments and that he was borrowing from family and friends 
on an ongoing basis. He said his gambling and use of high interest short term loans should 
have also raised concerns. Mr P reiterated that he didnt accept that Shawbrook had carried 
out adequate checks and said if it had done it would have realised the loan was 
unaffordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
As our adjudicator has explained, Shawbrook needed to carry out proportionate checks to be 
able to understand whether any lending was sustainable for Mr P. The rules dont set out 
any specific checks which must be completed to assess creditworthiness. But while it is 
down to the firm to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out, these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, the total cost of the credit, and what 
it knew about Mr P at the point of application.
I have looked at the information Shawbrook gathered and I think it should have carried out 
further checks to ensure the lending was affordable. I say this because Mr Ps credit check 
showed he had four credit cards which were at or near the limit as well as another loan 
outstanding. While I note the reason stated for the loan was to consolidate three credit 
cards, it was also to provide additional lending so I think it would have been proportionate to 
ask further questions to get a clear understanding of Mr Ps financial situation.
Shawbrook has said it verified Mr Ps income, and I think this is reasonable. His bank 
statements showed his monthly income to be £1,756. But I think it would have been 
proportionate for Shawbrook to have found out more about Mr Ps committed expenditure. I 
cant be sure exactly what Shawbrook would have found out if it had asked. While I do not 
think that Shawbrook was required to request copies of Mr Ps bank statements, in the 
absence of anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the 
information contained in these as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Mr P was paying towards his credit cards and other credit commitments. Aside 
from this he didnt have many substantial committed living expenses going through is 
account. While I note his comments about borrowing from family and friends and I can see 
this in the statements, it isnt clear what Mr P would have said about these arrangements if 
asked and I note they wouldnt show on his credit report and so Shawbrook would be 
reasonably aware of these. Having looked through the statements I can see that Mr P was 
on occasions making reasonably substantial payments towards his credit cards and so while 
I have considered these in terms of assessing his credit commitments I have also 
considered the required amount he would need to pay. 
On balance, based on the information provided, and having consideration to what I think 
would have been identified had further checks taken place then I do not find that I can say 
these would have shown the lending to be unaffordable. I note Mr Ps comments about his 
gambling but Shawbrook wasnt aware of this and as Mr P didnt disclose this, I do not find 
that I can say it should have been reasonably aware or taken this into account. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman