DRN-3039061
The complaint
X has complained about the increase in premium his motor insurance provider Ageas 
Insurance Limited (Ageas) applied when he removed the named driver from the policy due to 
renew in February 2021.
What happened
Xs motor insurance policy was due to renew in February 2021 and Ageas sent him his 
renewal documentation the month before. The insurance renewal included a named driver. 
X received the renewal documentation and wrote back to Ageas including a cheque to cover 
the cost of the insurance. X also explained that he wanted to be the sole person covered by 
the policy.
Ageas explained to X that removing the named driver from the policy had increased the cost, 
and that a further premium of £51.22 was due. When X complained about the increase 
Ageas explained that when the named driver was on the policy, he was able to benefit from 
an insured and spouse discount, but when the named driver was removed, he was no 
longer able to take advantage of this.
Ageas felt it had acted fairly in how it had arrived at the premium it was charging for Xs 
policy but accepted it could have provided a better service. It had failed to respond to X on 
several occasions and didnt send updated paperwork when it should have. In recognition of 
this Ageas refunded the additional premium it had charged X when the named driver was 
removed.
Our Investigator considered Xs complaint and thought Ageas had offered a reasonable 
outcome. So, he didnt think Ageas should have to do anything more. 
X disagreed, he said he could continue to be impacted financially by the decision made by 
Ageas as his policy renewed each year. He also expected Ageas to have done more when it 
discussed the named driver being removed, the advisor could have explained that the 
named driver could simply remain on the policy and the premium would not have changed.  
X has also said that he feels the application of the insured and spouse discount is unfair as 
the removal of the discount only applied to named drivers that have made the decision to 
stop driving, and not to those policies where a named driver is no longer able to drive due to 
ill health or death. 
As X disagreed with the outcome our investigator had reached this complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not able to tell Ageas how much it can charge for its policies however, I look to see
that Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably. In this case, that means looking to see if
Ageas has correctly increased Xs premium in line with its underwriting criteria, and
treated him as it would other policyholders with the same circumstances.
Ageas has explained that X previously benefitted from an insured and souse discount that 
had been applied to his policy, but that this discount was removed when X told Ageas he 
was to be the sole driver covered under the policy.
As X asked Ageas to remove his spouse from the policy when it renewed it follows that this 
discount would be removed as well. Ageas has sent us evidence that shows it has applied 
its underwriting criteria correctly when calculating Xs premium so I dont think it has treated 
him any differently to how it would another customer in the same position. Therefore, I cant 
say it has discriminated against him, or treated him unfairly.
Ageas has told X it would not charge increased premiums as a result of ill health or death. X 
therefore feels the application of the discount is unfair. But I dont agree, I think it would be 
reasonable for Ageas to use its discretion in such a case to decide whether to allow the 
discount to remain in place. Its clear that other customers in the same position as X would 
be treated in the same way he has been. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to ask 
Ageas to do anything differently in relation to the way it has worked out Xs premium.
While X has said he thinks the increase in premium will continue to affect him financially 
moving forward, Ageas has calculated Xs premium based on the risk he has presented to it. 
Xs motor insurance is an annual policy and each year it will be assessed. X is free to 
consider other policies from other providers and can also look to add a named driver if he 
requires cover for them under his policy. I am unable to find that any of Ageas actions has 
unfairly impacted Xs future premiums. 
Ageas could have given X more information about how he could make changes to the policy 
to reduce the premium, including that he could have added the named driver back on the 
policy. But it was not a requirement for Ageas to do this so Im unable to say it has done 
anything wrong buy not doing so.
Having looked at Xs complaint I think Ageas could have provided a better overall service to 
him. But Ageas has refunded the addition premium X was charged in recognition of this, and 
I think this is a fair outcome.
I think overall Ageas has given a reasonable explanation as to the reasons behind the 
increase in Xs premium, and offered a fair outcome to his complaint, so Im not asking it to 
do anything further. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman