DRN-3343334
The complaint
R is a sole trader and is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to cancel his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2021 Aviva cancelled Rs motor insurance for non-payment. R says he didnt 
receive notification of Avivas intention to cancel until after this had happened. He doesnt 
understand why such an important notification was sent by second class post when other 
methods such as email couldve been used. 
R says the lack of communication meant he drove his van without insurance for a week. 
Aviva says it applied for Rs monthly direct debit payment of £141.92 in February 2021. But it 
was declined by his bank. It says its process is to write to its customer when a payment 
cannot be collected and request that payment is provided. Aviva says it received no payment 
and no contact and so cancelled the policy just over three weeks later.    
Aviva offered R the option of setting up another policy. It cleared the remaining £336.53 
account balance as a gesture of goodwill as R was experiencing financial difficulties.  
R didnt think this outcome was fair and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Avivas policy terms were clear and it 
acted fairly when cancelling the policy after R didnt pay his premium. She says Aviva has 
shown it wrote to R as required by the policy terms and had given the required notice to 
cancel.
R wasnt satisfied it this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Rs complaint. I understand this isnt the outcome he 
wanted, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
R raised a complaint relating to a claim under his motor insurance and an increase in his 
premium. This has been dealt with separately by our service and doesnt form part of my 
considerations here. My remit is to consider whether Aviva treated R fairly when cancelling 
his policy. 
I have read Rs policy terms to understand whats expected in these circumstances. The 
terms say:
We may cancel this policy or optional covers where there is a valid reason, for example 
where:
You have not paid your premium (including non-payment of instalments under an Aviva 
monthly credit facility). If premiums or instalment payment(s) are not paid when due we will 
write to the principal policyholder requesting payment by a specific date. We will give you at 
least 14 days notice in writing if we intend to cancel due to non-payment under an Aviva 
monthly credit facility. If we receive payment by the date set out in the letter we will take no 
further action. If we do not receive payment we will cancel the policy and/or any additional 
cover options from the cancellation date shown on the letter.   
The terms require Aviva to write to R and give 14 days notice of its intention to cancel the 
policy. I have seen a copy of the default letter it sent in February 2021. This explains 
payment wasnt able to be collected and R should provide the payment or contact Aviva by 
phone if payment couldnt be made online. The policy cancelled just over three weeks after 
the date on this letter. Based on this evidence, Aviva followed its policy terms and allowed 
slightly longer than the expected 14 days for R to pay his premium.
I acknowledge R says he received no notification until after the cancellation. But I have no 
reason to doubt that this letter and two further letters were sent by post. I have seen copies 
of the default letter, the letter confirming cancellation and a further letter confirming how 
much R owed. The letters were sent in writing as required by the policy terms and to the 
correct address. I acknowledge Rs comments that email or phone contact wouldve been 
quicker. But I accept Aviva followed its policy terms by sending this in writing. Ultimately R 
was responsible for ensuring funds were available.     
R says he unknowingly drove his van whilst uninsured. I can understand why this has 
caused him concern. But Aviva cancelled the policy for non-payment, after providing written 
notice in line with the policy terms. I dont think it has acted unfairly, so it cant reasonably be 
responsible for R driving without insurance. 
I understand R told Aviva, when it offered to insure him under a new policy, that it had the 
wrong transmission details for his van. The premium was adjusted based on these updated 
details. Aviva says it has no notes to say this information was provided earlier. I think the 
business responded reasonably when this point was raised.       
I have thought about Avivas actions after it cancelled Rs policy. Its clear from his comments 
that he was struggling financially. Wed expect a business to be sympathetic toward its 
customers in such circumstances. And where possible provide assistance. In Rs case Aviva 
offered to clear the balance owing on his account for £336.53. It also offered insurance 
under a new policy so R could remain covered for his van. 
I acknowledge R is very unhappy with how Aviva treated him. But based on the evidence I 
cant agree that it treated him unfairly. I think it behaved reasonably when relying on the 
policy terms to cancel the policy, and when offering financial help by clearing his outstanding 
balance. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Mike WaldronOmbudsman