DRN-3908827
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE has unfairly increased her pet insurance 
premiums. 
HDI is represented by an entity which I shall call M. 
What happened
In 2020 Mrs F took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for her dog at a monthly premium of 
£40.88. The policy premium increased by just under £8 a month in 2021 to £48.65. For the 
2022 renewal the monthly premium increased to £88.36 a month. 
Mrs F was shocked at the 2022 increase in premium and she complained to M, which 
collected the monthly premium on behalf of the insurer HDI. M didnt uphold her complaint. 
M said that it had taken into account various factors when reviewing and setting the policy 
premium. These factors included the pets age, postcode and claims history, and whether 
the pet was likely to suffer repeat incidents or if any conditions might be long term. It said the 
increasing cost and volume of claims and vet treatments also affected the premium. 
Mrs F wasnt happy with Ms response. She said that she had made one claim in 2022, but 
this was for a value of only around £200. After deductions she had received only around £58 
for the claim. 
Mrs F asked this Service to look into her complaint. She pointed out that she had brought a 
complaint to us about her previous pet insurance policy and had received compensation. 
She said her complaint about HDI was exactly the same. Mrs F said shed been able to take 
out a pet insurance policy with a different insurer for just under £50 a month.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Fs complaint but he did not uphold it. He reviewed the 
information that HDI had provided about the way in which it had calculated the premium for 
Mrs Fs policy. He was satisfied HDI had applied the risk factors correctly to her policy. He 
explained that Mrs Fs earlier complaint had been upheld because the company that had 
sold the policy had not properly explained that the premium might increase. In this case, 
HDI had warned her of the risk of a premium increase, particularly following a claim. 
Mrs F asked for an Ombudsmans review. She also pointed out that M had used the wrong 
pet names in its final response letter. She questioned whether it had also based the premium 
increase on the wrong information. 
Our Investigator raised this with M. It said that, in error, it had used the wrong pet names in 
its letter that was based on a template letter. But M said it had correctly calculated Mrs Fs 
premium. Our Investigator checked again the information that HDI had provided. Having 
done so, he didnt think HDI had made a mistake with the premium. 
After the complaint came to me for review our Investigator spoke again to Mrs F. She asked 
him to make sure that the copy final response letter that she received from M, which she has 
marked to show its errors in the pet names, has been placed on file and brought to my 
attention. I confirm that he has done this and I have seen the letter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mrs Fs concerns about the increase in her monthly premium. The 
premium setting is the responsibility of the insurer, HDI. M acted on HDIs behalf by 
explaining the premium rises and responding to Mrs Fs complaint about the increases. 
Mrs Fs monthly premium increased from £40.88 a month in 2020 to £88.36 in 2022, so the 
premium more than doubled in two years. As such, I can understand why she has 
complained the increase isnt fair. But I dont have a regulatory role and as such I cannot tell 
an insurer what price it should charge for the risks its policies cover. I also cannot decide 
what factors an insurer should take into account when assessing those risks. We usually 
take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are entitled to charge what they 
feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
When deciding how much to charge for its policies insurers will make an assessment of how 
likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how much the insurer might have to 
pay out for those claims. Each insurer will make that assessment in their own way. 
Its up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium they want to 
charge for that cover, based on the risk they think a customer presents. And, in general, the 
cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and theres more risk of a 
claim being made. Insurers will also factor in the increasing costs of medical treatment. With 
a lifetime policy, such as the one Mrs F took out, the insurer covers any conditions the pet 
develops on an ongoing basis for the rest of their lives  as long as the policy continues. 
Providing this cover may be expensive and the yearly cost of these lifetime policies can go 
up significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how much the premium could be and I cant 
impose one. But I will look to see if an insurer has treated the customer as they would others 
in similar circumstances. 
In response to Mrs Fs complaint M explained, on behalf of HDI, some of the factors that 
HDI considers when assessing risk and calculating premiums. These include factors that will 
affect all its customers, which are things like: the increasing cost of vets fees; insurance 
premium tax; and other underwriting changes. And its assessment of those factors will affect 
all its customers in a similar way. Then there are other specific factors that will affect Mrs F 
and those with dogs who present similar specific risks. That includes things like the dogs 
age, and  following a claim  the risk of a condition recurring. 
In this case, it seems that after Mrs F had made a claim for her dogs treatment, that affected 
the risk that HDI felt her dog presented. So HDI reflected that risk in Mrs Fs premium 
calculation. That is something its allowed to do. Given the size of the increase I can 
understand why Mrs F wasnt happy with it, and Ive considered her comments about the 
size of the claim. But that doesnt mean HDI has done anything wrong. 
I note that when Mrs Fs policy was due for renewal in 2021 and 2022, the renewal invitation 
letters that M sent to her said that premiums were likely to increase as her dog got older and 
that this increase will be significant if you have claimed. So I think HDI did give Mrs F some 
warning that her future premiums might be subject to a considerable rise. 
This wasnt the case in the previous complaint that Mrs F made to this Service. In that case, Mrs Fs premium had also gone up but my Ombudsman colleague found that the company 
(not M or HDI, but a different company) that had sold the policy had not done enough to 
explain to Mrs F that the policy premium could increase substantially, particularly if she 
made a claim. As such, he awarded her compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
that had caused. So I dont think the circumstances here are the same as in Mrs Fs earlier 
complaint. Also, we consider each individual complaint on its own facts and merits. 
I think it was unfortunate that M made an error in its letter by mistakenly referring to two 
incorrect pet names. I can see why Mrs F has raised this point. I have read the letter to 
which she has referred. I have taken it into account in reaching my decision and considered 
the points she has made on the telephone to our Investigator.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence HDI has provided, and I dont consider it made a 
mistake in calculating Mrs Fs premium or based her premium on incorrect information. The 
evidence it has provided to us is for her policy and her dog. The wrong information in its final 
response to her complaint was a typographical error and, while unhelpful, did not affect the 
premium she was charged. 
I can understand why Mrs F found the price rise difficult to bear and chose to go elsewhere. 
But I dont think HDI calculated her premium unfairly or made a mistake in calculating her 
premium. I think it treated her the same as other customers in a similar position. This means 
that I do not uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman