DRN-3884507
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with what Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited did after he made a 
claim on his legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr W made a claim on his policy in relation to noise issues at his property. 
Its a requirement of the policy that any claim enjoys reasonable prospects of success. RSA 
asked panel solicitors to consider whether that was the case on 21 January 2022. However, 
it also said it would only pay one seventh of the cost of any legal claim because others were 
affected by the same issue. 
A complaint about that (and delay in the initial assessment of the claim) has already been 
considered by our service. Following that in April 2022 RSA agreed to consider the claim on 
a full funding basis and pay compensation for the delay. However, prior to that happening 
the panel firm queried RSAs position on funding and Mr W said he was unhappy with the 
time taken to progress the claim. He asked RSA to appoint a different firm. 
RSA clarified information on funding with the panel firm and sought updates from it on 
progress. It provided a positive assessment on the claims prospects of success on 21 April. 
And following our previous involvement RSA confirmed it would fund the claim in full. 
However, as Mr W remained unhappy with the panel firm it agreed to appoint an alternative 
firm at the start of May. Matters have progressed with that firm with a positive counsels 
opinion on the claim subsequently being obtained. 
Our investigator agreed there had been some delays in the claim being progressed in this 
period which could have been avoided if RSA hadnt incorrectly sought to limit funding for 
the claim. He also thought there had been some avoidable delay in RSA considering Mr Ws 
request for a different panel firm to progress matters. He thought it should pay £100 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience that caused him. 
RSA didnt respond. Mr W didnt agree. He thought the panel firm were acting as agents of 
RSA so it was responsible for any failings on their part. And it had taken eight months from 
the claim being submitted until solicitors were appointed to act for him. He said RSA hadnt 
taken proper action to progress matters during this period and didnt act to find him an 
alternative firm when he requested this. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I appreciate Mr W thinks RSA is responsible for the actions of the solicitors who were 
carrying out the prospects assessment. And so any failures on their part are something we 
can consider. But as our investigator has explained that isnt the case. We can only consider 
the covered activities set out in our rules (the Dispute Resolution Rules or DISP). Those 
activities include regulated activities. And carrying out a contract of insurance is a regulated 
activity. Thats why we can consider what RSA did here. 
But the actions of the solicitors acting in their legal capacity arent a regulated activity and 
dont fall within any of the other covered activities contained in our rules. So that isnt 
something we can look at. The solicitors are independent professionals with their own 
regulator and complaints procedures; I understand Mr W has raised his concerns about the 
actions of the solicitors with the relevant body. 
What we can consider is whether there have been any failings on the part of RSA including 
whether it acted appropriately once Mr W brought his concerns about the actions of the 
panel firm to its attention.  But Im not considering in this decision issues raised as part of 
Mr Ws previous complaint to us. So Im not looking at the initial delay in assessing the claim 
or RSAs decision to limit funding for this. What Im considering are matters which took place 
after RSA issued its final response on the previous complaint (January 2022) and before it 
issued a further final response at the start of September 2022.  
I can see the matter was referred to the panel solicitors for assessment on 21 January 2022. 
RSA followed that up the following month and was advised the solicitors were waiting for 
information from Mr W. There was then discussion between the panel firm and RSA about 
how costs would be apportioned. As that related to RSAs initial (and incorrect) decision to 
only pay one seventh of the costs of any legal claim I think its reasonable to say if it hadnt 
got that wrong this discussion could have been avoided. 
On 22 March Mr W contacted RSA and said he was unhappy with the panel firm and was 
advised an alternative firm could potentially be instructed. RSA did that at the start of May. I 
think it was reasonable of RSA to initially try and find out why relations between Mr W and 
the panel firm had broken down and see if these could be resolved. But I dont think it fully 
understood the issues Mr W was raising; it told him a number of times it couldnt investigate 
the concerns he was raising about the panel firm despite Mr W making clear what he wanted 
was for an alternative firm to be assigned to his claim. 
I dont think there was any delay for which RSA was responsible in the claim then being 
progressed; the new firm advised counsels opinion should be sought and RSA agreed 
promptly. Counsel subsequently concluded Mr Ws claim did have reasonable prospects of 
success and RSA authorised funding for it to progress. 
But I appreciate the issues Ive identified did cause some overall delay to the progress of this 
claim and that will have caused Mr W avoidable distress and inconvenience at what was 
already a difficult time. However, although it did take some months for cover to be confirmed 
only a relatively small part of that period relates to what RSA got wrong. Taking all of that 
into account I think the £100 our investigator recommended is appropriate in this case. 
Mr W has also raised concerns about a form RSA asked him to sign so compensation could 
be paid in relation to his previous complaint. I understand he was concerned that would 
prevent him from raising concerns about other issues. I dont think thats something Im able 
to consider because it relates to complaint handling. That isnt in itself a regulated (or 
otherwise covered activity) and isnt something I can consider in isolation from the original 
issue complained about. 
In any event RSA appears to have taken what appear to be reasonable steps in response to 
Mr Ws concerns as it provided an acceptance form which said the compensation related to 
solely to the previous complaint wed dealt with. And while I appreciate RSA does appear to have become confused about what concerns Mr W was raising in a response in June 2022 
that didnt prevent him pursuing his current complaint with it or our service. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited will need to 
put things right by paying Mr W £100. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman