DRN-2247848
The complaint
Mr Ls representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited
What happened
In late 1991, Mr L was advised to take out a long-term savings plan. It started in February 
1992 and was designed to provide a lump sum benefit upon the death of the life assured. 
The plan also provided an investment benefit, which was available upon early surrender. 
Mr L paid in a total of £10,000 and surrendered the plan in late June 2002 for £8,557. 
The business consented to us considering the merits of this complaint but didnt uphold the 
complaint. In summary, it said:
It decided that a previous policy sold in 1990 was unsuitable, owing to Mr Ls 
circumstances. At the time he was employed, had life cover through work, and was 
single with no deposit-based savings. So, Mr L had no need for life cover, and ought 
to have been advised to put money away in a deposit-based account.    
In contrast, it doesnt accept that the 1992 policy  which is the subject of this 
complaint  was unsuitable, because Mr Ls circumstances were different. He was 
married, in receipt of a higher income, and had deposit-based savings for 
emergencies. He also expressed a wish to build up money in the medium to long 
term. Therefore, advising Mr L to commit to a long-term savings product  designed 
to be funded for at least 20 years in order to achieve optimal returns  wasnt 
unsuitable.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld for 
similar reasons to the business. In summary, she said:
A complaint involving the 1990 policy was upheld by the business and redress was 
accepted by Mr L, so she wont be considering this policy any further.    
In 1992, Mr Ls circumstances were different in that he was married, still employed 
but with an increased salary and had deposit-based savings. He also owned his 
home with a mortgage but otherwise had no outstanding debts. 
Mr L also wanted to build up money for the medium to long term, and the policy was 
a long-term savings plan designed to pay out a sum assured on the policyholders 
death. It also had an investment benefit which he received when he surrendered the 
plan in June 2002. 
The recommendation broadly met Mr Ls objective so shes unable to say its it was 
unsuitable. 
Although Mr L withdrew from the plan after 10 years due to its performance, it was 
designed to grow steadily with full benefit being realised after 25 years. 
Based on Mr Ls desire to put money away medium to long term, she cant say the 
recommendation was unsuitable.      
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it made the following points:
The investigator mentioned that Mr L was looking to invest in the medium to long 
term but also mentioned that the policy was a long-term plan. 
Medium term referred to a period of between 10 and 15 years when these types of 
policies were recommended. 
This policy wasnt an endowment policy as suggested by the investigator but a whole 
of life policy. The difference is fundamental when considering suitability. 
An endowment plan can run for a fixed term which is set from the outset. At the time 
the business was offering 10-year savings plans with an endowment structure, but 
this wasnt recommended to Mr L, probably because the commission for the whole of 
life was higher. 
The whole of life policy was designed to run until Mr L was 75 years of age and is 
fundamentally an insurance policy with an element of investment.
Mr L had no immediate need for life cover at the time but was subject to the 
increasing cost of life cover in additional to the £8 fixed monthly charge that 
represented a 10% upfront charge, which was impossible to make up with growth as 
the policy ages. 
Due to the charges the whole of life policy was generally deemed unsuitable as a 
savings plan.   
The policy documentation provided emphasised the flexibility of the scheme  for 
example that the consumer can take premium holidays, make early encashments, 
but didnt explain the large penalties that would be involved. The policy 
documentation is therefore misleading. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite 
what the CMC says, Im unable to safely say that the advice was unsuitable for Mr L. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and the business and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. As a 
fresh pair of eyes looking at the complaint, its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I appreciate the regulatory rules from 1990 required financial advisers to exercise 
reasonable care and skill to know your customer and to give recommendations that were 
suitable for the clients circumstances. At that time, many advisers may not have completed 
fact finds, and reason-why letters werent obligatory until 1995. Despite this I note the 
business did in fact complete a fairly comprehensive fact find which has been of assistance. 
I appreciate the point the CMC makes about the plan being whole of life, I also note its 
definition of medium term. But Im also aware it was recorded that Mr L wanted a product 
that was medium to long term, which would suggest (even according to the CMC) that he 
was prepared to take out a product that was at least for 10-15 years. Im mindful that this 
policy was designed to run until Mr L reached the age of 65 (according to the policy 
documentation), which isnt the same as a traditional whole of life policy thats designed to 
pay out on death whenever that might occur. In this case Ive not seen any evidence that Mr L was led to believe that the plan, although to 
a greater extent an open-ended contract, was an appropriate medium-term savings plan. In 
fairness, Ive seen no evidence from the point of sale that Mr L specifically wanted a 
medium-term plan, so I cant say that the business has done anything wrong by not 
recommending the 10-year plan. 
In any case, it was clear from the documentation that this product was designed to pay out a 
lump sum upon death with the flexibility of being surrendered sooner which appeared to suit 
Mr L at the time. 
I appreciate the CMC says this was a life insurance policy with an element of investment 
whilst the business suggests that its a longer-term savings policy with life cover, but 
irrespective of how the parties choose to define the plan, Mr L wanted to save medium to 
long term, but wasnt against having life cover which on the face of the papers doesnt 
appear to be mandatory with this plan.    
Im conscious this wasnt the first time that he chose and/or was advised to take out this sort 
of plan. I understand that a complaint about the 1990 policy was upheld by the business, 
based on his circumstances at the point of sale. But I also note that two years later, in 1992, 
Mr Ls circumstances by comparison were different. Although he was still employed and 
owned his own home with a repayment mortgage, he was also married, had deposit-based 
savings, and was earning more money. Usually these are matters for which consumers can 
put off saving money in medium to long term, in favour of short to medium term needs.   
In the circumstances Im unable to say that life cover (possibly in the sum of £26,640 
according to the fact find), even as additional life cover, was unsuitable, or that there was 
simply no need given his new circumstances. Im mindful he had joint mortgage protection 
for a term of 25 years but no family protection as such, I think its unlikely that Mr L wouldnt 
want to leave his family with a lump sum, in the event of his death. 
I understand that Mr L had the option to select an investment only option which carries a 
nominal amount of life cover, but Ive seen nothing to suggest he was interested in this. Im 
aware that there are also potential tax benefits of not going down that route which may have 
dissuaded him from doing so. 
Mr L also had access to deposit-based funds in case of emergencies or unforeseeable 
circumstances so there was no reason why he couldnt save for the medium to longer term. 
Even if Mr L had planned to have children in the future, there was nothing to say that he 
couldnt do so and afford to maintain the policy for the benefit of himself and his family in the 
longer term. Im mindful that a change in circumstances wasnt why he surrendered the plan 
in June 2002. 
I appreciate what the CMC says about the commonly held view about these products as 
savings plans, but the products arent inherently unsuitable just because they combine life 
cover with longer term savings, and will depend on the circumstances of the consumer. 
The CMC will be aware that ombudsmen are not bound by the decisions of other 
ombudsman or adjudicators. Every case is considered on its own merits and no two cases 
are the same. Even the tiniest factual difference can make a difference in outcome.
I note the CMC says that Mr Ls longer-term needs were already taken care of as he was a 
member of the final salary pension scheme and had the option of purchasing added years in 
his employer pension to increase his financial security. But I dont agree that this took care of 
all his long-term needs and that Mr L wasnt interested in doing anything else.  In my opinion, I dont think Mr L was against the idea of longer-term security such that a 
20/25 year plus plan would be unsuitable. I note it was just another five years over what the 
CMC would describe as the top end of a medium-term policy. On balance, it would seem to 
me that being secure in retirement was a priority for Mr L. I note that the retirement box was 
ticked in the fact find under the section titled Identification of needs/requirements. 
I appreciate that the business was also selling the 10-year savings plan, but despite what the 
CMC says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr L wouldve specifically gone for that. In other 
words, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr L didnt want to commit monthly premiums to 
savings plans that needed to be retained for at least 20/25 or so years to show a worthwhile 
return. 
I note Mr Ls date of surrender, just over 10 years after the policy started, was due to its 
performance, and not due to its term or because he needed the money. This of itself isnt 
evidence that the plan was unsuitable, or that a 10-year term policy wouldve been suitable 
in its place. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr L was given the impression he would get something 
worthwhile back after 10 years, or even earlier, when it was unlikely that he would do so. I 
note the plan was designed to give it optimum return after around 25 years. Nevertheless, 
the plan was flexible in that it allowed Mr L to access his money before then, albeit 
surrendering early wasnt free of charge. 
Despite what the CMC says I note on page three of the policy document titled Drawing on 
your savings it states:
Your Savings Programme is designed to grow steadily with the full benefit worth being 
realised after about 25 years. However, individual circumstances change and you may need 
access to your savings at an earlier date. This option is always open to you. 
Naturally there are a number of charges for your benefits and the cost of setting up and 
maintaining your programme. The set up charge at the start of your Programme will mean 
that for some period there will be no return to you. 
In addition to there being no guarantees as to the level of return, I think Mr L knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, that he might not get back what he put in if he surrendered 
around the 10 year mark.   
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr L, who was already married, in gainful employment with 
a house, was likely to surrender early because of a change in his circumstances, and in my 
opinion, surrendering after 10 years doesnt automatically render the plan unsuitable.  
I appreciate what the CMC says about the level of commission being a reason to sell the 
policy, but other than what the CMC says, Ive seen no reason to think that was the sole 
motivator rather than Mr L wanting a medium to long term product.    
In my opinion surrendering the policy when he did and complaining 18 years after, doesnt in 
my mind suggest he was dissatisfied with the plan. On the face of the evidence, Im unable 
to safely say the policy unsuitable or mis-sold.
I appreciate Mr L will be very disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But in the circumstances, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman