DRN-2940066
The complaint
Mr Z says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans was wrong to place 
his loan in to default. He says that Satsuma stopped communicating with him in 2020 and he 
assumed that it had written the loan off. He wasnt made aware that it had defaulted his loan 
and passed it to a third-party collection agency. He says Satsuma relied on a notice of 
default that was issued some years earlier and this wasnt right. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Satsuma provided to Mr Z on 4 October 2017. 
Mr Z borrowed £400 and he was due to make 12 monthly repayments of £66.40. 
Mr Z had repayment problems right from the start. He was able to make the equivalent of 
four monthly repayments between October 2017 and May 2018. After not receiving 
repayments for some time Satsuma issued a default notice on 8 August 2018. 
Following this, Mr Z was in contact with Satsuma and he made repayments in September, 
October and November 2018. There was then another lengthy time when Mr Z was unable 
to pay. During 2019 he made payments only in April and October. 
Mr Z and Satsuma were in contact throughout 2019 and it seemed that Mr Z had a number 
of financial problems, for example, he wasnt being paid regularly and he was behind with his 
priority bills. But Mr Z did inform Satsuma about this and he also said that the loan 
repayments would be affordable ordinarily. Satsumas contact notes do show that towards 
the end of 2019 an agreed payment arrangement was stopped (this happened twice) as Mr 
Z was unable to make his loan repayments. 
And in early 2020 I can see that, other than on a few isolated occasions, Satsuma had been 
unable to contact Mr Z. And it had asked for information about his income and expenditure, 
but it hadnt received this. And Mr Z still wasnt making any repayments to the loan. 
On 24 July 2020 Satsuma defaulted the account and sent it to a third-party debt recovery 
organisation. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that whilst it would have been better 
customer service if Satsuma had issued a second default notice it wasnt acting incorrectly 
when it defaulted the loan. And Mr Z would have been aware he wasnt making the loan 
repayments and the likely consequences of this. 
Mr Z disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He said that Satsuma was obliged to send a 
further default notice. And he said the default being on his credit file was causing him 
personal and professional problems. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
A business can apply a default when a consumer has been unable to make the agreed 
repayments and the lender feels there is no reasonable prospect that the borrower will be 
able to return to the agreed contractual payments. Its often the case that a default is applied 
when the borrower is behind and communication, and or the relationship, has broken down 
between both parties. 
And this is what has happened here. Mr Z had problems making the loan repayments from 
very early on. And whilst I can see both parties tried to rectify this situation at the start of the 
lending, as Ive outlined above, towards the time the loan was defaulted Mr Z had been in 
arears for some time and Satsuma was having problems contacting him. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Satsuma to default the loan. 
Mr Z complains that Satsuma shouldve sent a second notice of default before it applied the 
default to the account. I agree this may have been better customer service. But it doesnt 
change the fact that I think Satsuma was correct to apply the default. I dont think, given the 
well documented problems Mr Z had with repaying the loan over a protracted period of time, 
that he would have been able to repay the loan as in the original contract. I dont think 
issuing a second notice of default would have changed this. And so, the loan was likely to be 
defaulted in any event. 
And I think, even though Mr Z had been in arrears for some time, the timing of the default 
was reasonable. Having looked at all of the information I have been provided I think its right 
to say Satsuma was trying to assist Mr Z to make his repayments and avoid defaulting the 
loan. Its only when it was unable to further do this that it applied the default. I think this was 
fair. 
So, overall, I dont think its right to say that Satsuma was acting incorrectly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman