The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted negligently in allowing his ex-
partner to withdraw funds from a joint account.
What happened
Mr T told us hed been the sole account holder on a bank account with HSBC for many 
years. He added his partner to it, making it a joint account. Later, Mr T wanted to remove the 
joint accountholder but says he was told this wasnt possible. He said he was told by HSBC 
that he could, instead, block her from accessing the account. And he told us that he thought 
this block was applied in 2012.
Mr T told us that, contrary to his belief that there was a block in place, his ex-partner had 
managed to remove funds of £5,900 in July 2019. He thinks HSBC had unblocked his ex-
partners access to the account without his knowledge or permission. 
Mr T thinks he should be compensated for the funds that were removed from his account, as 
well as compensation for the grief and suffering the situation has caused him. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She didnt think at first it was one that we could 
consider as it had been brought to us out of time. This was because the original submissions 
to our service appeared to be about the account being blocked, rather than just the access 
of one joint accountholder. Mr T disagreed that it had been brought to us out of time and 
clarified the nature of his complaint. So it was passed to me.
Ive been in contact with both parties and established that this complaint is one that we can 
look at. But I let Mr T know that I wasnt minded to uphold his complaint because there 
wasnt sufficient evidence to prove on balance that a block on his ex-partner was ever 
applied, and it seemed inherently unlikely that HSBC wouldve allowed (for reasons 
explained below). But as Mr T hasnt agreed with my informal provisional findings, Im now 
proceeding to a formal decision. 
As well as the main issue of the funds allegedly being withdrawn from the account without 
his authorisation, Mr T has raised several matters which he believes to be failings on 
HSBCs part, including the following:
When adding his partner onto the account, he wasnt told he wouldnt later be able to
remove her;
Given the amount of money that was withdrawn, HSBC shouldve checked with him
before allowing the transaction to go through;
HSBC didnt dispute that there had been a block on the account, only that he
shouldve known earlier that the block had been removed;
The block was removed without informing him;
DRN-1979518He was given information about renewing the block. He doesnt think he should have 
to ask for it to be renewed as it should never have been removed. So this implies that 
there was a block in place previously and that a block can be added;
He shouldve been told that it wasnt possible to block one persons access to the 
account;
HSBC has wrongly deleted its records from 2012.
 
HSBC told us it doesnt have any records of Mr Ts ex-partner being blocked from using the 
account, or any notes to reflect a conversation of this nature. It said it isnt possible to block 
one party from the account because both parties on a joint account have equal rights and 
responsibilities and would be jointly and severally liable for the account. So, it doesnt think 
it wouldve told Mr T this was possible. It also said that if it had been notified of a dispute 
between parties, it would simply have blocked all named parties from accessing the account 
rather than restricting access to the other joint accountholder. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr T, I dont uphold this complaint  and 
Ill explain why.
Before determining whether his ex-partners access to the joint account was in fact 
wrongfully unblocked, I must first establish whether a block was actually applied for, and in 
place. Mr T thinks one was applied in 2012. But HSBC says that it has system memos 
going back to 2012, and theres no suggestion of a dispute between the joint 
accountholders. It says that the full contents of the memos arent available because of the 
time passed, but that any dispute would be noted in the memo titles, which are available.
Ideally, Id like to see the full content of the system notes but, given that it was such a long 
time ago, its not unreasonable or unlawful that HSBC no longer has this data available, as it 
isnt required to hold this information indefinitely  and, indeed, has a statutory duty not to 
retain personal data for too long (usually six years). I know Mr T feels strongly that HSBC 
should provide information about the conversations it had with him in relation to the block 
being placed on the account; but it cant provide what it no longer has as a result of data-
protection principles. On balance, therefore, Mr T hasnt proven that he applied for a user 
block and/or was misled about the matter.
Circumstantial evidence can be useful in resolving factual disputes where there is a dearth of 
contemporaneous documentary evidence, so Ive also thought about whether its likely that 
HSBC wouldve allowed a user block to be applied to a joint account. And I dont think it is 
likely. When an account becomes joint, both accountholders have equal status become 
jointly and severally liable for the account. In other words, both own and control all the funds 
equally irrespective of their original source. This means that both accountholders can deposit 
and withdraw money without seeking permission from the other  and can act for and on 
behalf of each other in relation to the account. If this were otherwise and just one 
accountholder were able to block the other from accessing the account  e.g. in the event of 
a domestic dispute or split  this could lead to the accountholder with full access emptying 
the account, or even causing it to go overdrawn, to the detriment of the other legal owner. In 
that situation, the blocked accountholder would then become equally liable for a debt they 
had no way of preventing. It follows that joint account holders can generally act for and on 
behalf of each other in relation to the account unless it involves removing the other from the 
account completely, or removing their access.  These common law principles are supported by the relevant terms and conditions of the 
account. Section 22.1 explains that HSBC can carry out banking activities on joint accounts 
which are authorised by either accountholder. Section 22.3 goes on to say If any one of you 
tells us of a dispute between any of you, we may treat this as notice of cancellation of the 
authority set out at clause 22.1 We will need the authority of all of you to pay out any credit 
balance on the joint account or to close the joint account. So, in short, if HSBC were notified 
of a dispute, it would no longer allow the accountholders to act on behalf of each other, and 
it wouldnt allow any funds to leave the account without authority from both  accountholders. 
In the circumstances, if Mr T had asked to remove his ex-partner from the account, and then 
settled for her access being blocked, it wouldve been apparent to HSBC that there was 
probably some form of dispute. And, once aware of this, the above terms state that it 
wouldnt have allowed any credit balance to be withdrawn without permission from Mr T and 
his ex-partner. 
Based on all of this, Im not persuaded that HSBC agreed to block or did in fact block Mr Ts 
ex-partners access to the account. Ive not seen anything concrete to support Mr Ts belief 
that HSBC did the wrongful acts or omissions that he alleges. So theres insufficient proof 
that HSBC has been negligent. I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude it was 
aware of a dispute between accountholders  so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to ask it to do anything further here. HSBC has said that it will now work with both parties to 
make arrangements for the funds to be paid away and the account closed. 
I think the above addresses the crux of this complaint. But Ill also provide responses to 
some of the perceived failings Mr T has mentioned, though I might not comment on every 
concern raised.
Mr T said that he wasnt told, when adding his partner onto the account, that he wouldnt be 
able to remove her. This particular complaint point doesnt seem to have been raised with 
HSBC and relates to a different event when Mr Ts ex-partner was added to the account, not 
when the alleged block was applied. But again, once an account becomes joint, both 
accountholders become equal in the total assets and liabilities. This is regardless of whether 
the account was initially set up as a joint account, or whether one held it originally as a sole 
account. Neither accountholder has more or less rights over the account than the other. So it 
wouldnt make sense for either accountholder to have the power to remove the other; so 
there was nothing for HSBC to advise on here and/or no detriment in the absence of such 
advice. 
Mr T thinks HSBC shouldve checked with him before allowing such a substantial amount to 
be withdrawn. But, as theres no indication that HSBC was aware of a dispute, theres no 
reason it would have gone against Section 22.1, i.e. allowing one accountholder to act on 
behalf of both or to withdraw funds to which she had full legal rights of access.
Given that Im not persuaded a block was ever placed on the account, I cant safely say that 
it was removed without informing Mr T. While Mr T was given some information about 
renewing a block on the account, this doesnt necessarily mean that HSBC is admitting a 
block was previously in place. I think the communication from HSBC about renewing a block 
was more of an acknowledgement that HSBC recognised Mr T strongly (but erroneously) 
believed there was a block in place. I think it was intended to make it clear that there isnt 
currently a block on the account and that it wasnt being added to the account as a result of 
a complaint being made. There will be some blocks that can be placed on accounts; perhaps 
maximum withdrawal amounts, or blocks on certain transactions as hypothetical examples. 
But giving the number to call to apply a block doesnt mean that HSBC would apply, or would 
previously have applied, a user block on the account. Im sorry that Mr T has been through this situation, and I appreciate how distressing it must 
have been for him to lose such a huge sum of money. But, based on everything Ive seen, I 
dont think it would be fair to hold HSBC responsible as Im not persuaded it has done 
anything wrong. 
I have considered and answered the merits of this complaint because, despite the initial 
misunderstanding and error over our jurisdictional time limits, Mr T is an eligible complainant 
and did refer the matter within three years of becoming aware of potential cause for 
complaint (whether that complaint was justified or not). However, whilst this error is 
regrettable, that is precisely why we have a two-stage process as a check and balance. 
Further, I am not persuaded it caused Mr T any detriment because, strictly speaking, this 
was a case that we could have declined to consider irrespective of its being within our 
jurisdiction. This is because there is a potential co-complainant: Mr Ts ex-partner and joint 
accountholder. As a general rule, we decline to consider complaints about joint products 
without the consent of the joint customer. This is to ensure that (i) we get both sides of the 
story if there is a factual dispute about what actually happened and (ii) the potential co-
complainant isnt prejudiced or wont end up being pursued for restitution by the bank if the 
case is upheld and compensation awarded without her having been heard. 
Accordingly, it is arguable that the case could and should have been dismissed until Mr Ts 
ex-partner had been located and joined as co-complainant. Our rules expressly provide for 
this in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook:
DISP Rule 3.3.4A
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 
or after 9 July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman considers thatdealing 
with such a type of complaint would otherwise seriously impair the effective operation of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
DISP Guidance 3.3.4B
Examples of a type of complaint that would otherwise seriously impair the effective operation 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service may include:
[]
(4) it is a complaint which:
(a) involves (or might involve) more than one eligible complainant; and
(b) has been referred without the consent of the other eligible complainant or complainants,
and the Ombudsman considers that it would be inappropriate to deal with the complaint 
without that consent.
Though finely-balanced, I decided not to exercise my discretion to dismiss the complaint 
despite the absence of the joint accountholder because (a) it clearly had no reasonable 
prospects of success given the evidence and arguments before me, so there was little or no 
risk of prejudice to a third party, and (b) our initial confusion over the essence of the 
complaint  and therefore our jurisdiction  resulted in Mr T not receiving the level of service 
to which we aspire. So, I felt it was only fair and reasonable to try to give him a fully-
reasoned explanation as to why, on the basis of the available evidence, the complaint could 
not succeed. I am sorry that this confusion arose  but I am satisfied that we have now reached the right outcome in all the circumstances; and that Mr T has not lost out as a result 
of any mistake by HSBC or the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman