DRN-2310407
The complaint
Mr M complains that the finance agreement he had with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc  
trading as Santander Consumer Finance was mis-represented to him.
What happened
Mr M had a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement for a car he purchased in 2014. 
In September 2016 he decided he wanted a newer car. He says he went back to the car 
dealer that had supplied the original car and agreement, and after agreeing on the model of 
car, signed a new agreement. Mr M says he believed hed entered into a new PCP 
agreement, because it had a mileage limit, and included a final balloon payment.
In August 2019 he asked Santander for the options to end the agreement. He said they told 
him he couldnt voluntary terminate the agreement because hed entered into a fixed sum 
loan agreement. He says they told him he could sell it privately and settle the agreement by 
paying the early settlement figure.
In October 2019 he contacted a company that buys cars direct from the owner. Mr M says 
they offered him £9,500. He says he then found out he couldnt sell the car because 
Santander had placed a finance marker against the car. The marker indicated to potential 
purchasers that there was outstanding finance owed to Santander and they had an interest 
in the car.
Mr M said he should have been allowed to voluntary terminate the agreement. He wanted to 
settle this way, and wanted a  refund of all the monthly payments hed paid since asking to 
terminate the agreement.
He says he entered into the agreement because he expected it to be a usual PCP 
agreement. He says he wouldnt have entered into the agreement if hed been told the 
differences between the types of agreement.
Santander didnt uphold his complaint. They confirmed hed signed a Fixed Sum Loan PCP 
agreement in September 2016. They said it was his responsibility to read and understand 
the terms of the agreement. They said he couldnt voluntary terminate the agreement but he 
could sell the car privately. They also said theyd sent him a settlement figure so that he 
could sell the vehicle himself.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He felt that Mr M had been misled, or had 
misunderstood, the agreement. He felt that Mr M thought he was entering into a normal PCP 
agreement, and wasnt told he was entering into a fixed sum loan agreement. He said the 
agreement entered into with Santander gave Mr M immediate ownership of the car. But he 
found that Santander had recorded a financial interest against the car, preventing Mr M from 
selling the car privately.
He felt that Mr M wouldve sold the car in October 2019, and Santander should put him back 
in the position he wouldve been had he sold the car at the time. He also said Santander 
should return all the monthly payments Mr M had made since that time, as hed not been 
using the car.
Santander disagreed. They said Mr M had all of the options available in a conditional sale 
PCP, but not the option to voluntary terminate the agreement. They said again that he had 
the option to voluntary surrender.
They explained theyd registered a financial interest to protect them from potential fraud. And 
they said they remove the marker when requested to do so by the customer.
Our investigator responded, saying that Santander didnt tell Mr M about the finance marker. 
He said they couldve made him aware of this, including in their final response to his 
complaint.
Santander acknowledged they couldve made Mr M aware of this in their final response 
letter. But they said he could still sell the vehicle, and could voluntary surrender. Our 
investigator pointed out that Santanders final response letter sent in August 2019 confirmed 
Mr M was told he had the right to sell the vehicle privately. Between then and October 2019 
no Santander representative made Mr M aware of the HPI marker, and no one offered to 
remove it. On this basis, he felt it was unreasonable to expect Mr M to be aware of the 
options Santander suggested retrospectively.
In September 2020 Santander told our investigator they felt his suggested outcome was not 
proportionate to the mistake they made. It accepted that there was confusion in the 
telephone conversations they had with Mr M, but insisted they had to register their financial 
interest to mitigate the risk of fraud.
They also repeated their view that Mr M had signed the agreement, and this was clearly a 
fixed sum loan agreement, and in signing the agreement hed confirmed hed received an 
explanation of the key aspects of the agreement. They said they felt a larger compensation 
amount was more proportionate than Mr M returning the vehicle to them.
Separate to this complaint, in October 2020 Santander wrote to Mr M advising him his 
Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement was coming to an end in January 2021. It 
advised him of the three options available to him in relation to the final balloon payment. 
These were:
Retain the vehicle, by making a payment of £7,250
Return the vehicle
Renew the vehicle, by part exchange and making the final payment
Mr M told our investigator this further reinforced his view that he was never told he had a 
fixed sum loan agreement.
Our investigator told Mr M about Santanders willingness to offer a monetary settlement 
rather than take the car back. Mr M said he could offer £5,000 to settle the agreement. Our 
investigator asked Santander to consider the offer, as a reduction on the settlement figure of 
£7,500 it had set out in its earlier letter to Mr M.
When they failed to respond by the deadline hed set, Mr M asked for the case to go to an 
ombudsman. Santander agreed, and the case has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator.
Mr M said he thought hed entered into a PCP agreement. The paperwork confirms that he 
entered into two agreements: a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement; and a Sales Agency 
Agreement. Both agreements were sold by the dealership on behalf of Santander. One of 
the effects of Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that any representations made 
by the credit broker (in this case the dealership) are made in their capacity as agent of the 
finance provider (Santander). This means Santander can be held responsible for the actions 
of the dealership when it brokered the finance agreements for Mr M.
The Loan agreement he signed was for 48 monthly payments of just under £300, followed by 
one payment of £7,250. The Sales Agency Agreement contains a mileage limit. Both 
documents are silent on the ownership of the car.
The first issue I have to consider is whether or not the key features of the finance 
agreements were made sufficiently clear to Mr M.
Before I consider that, I think itd be helpful to set out my understanding of a PCP 
agreement. Ive relied on the descriptions provided by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), and the Finance and Leasing Association (FLA), the trade body of which Santander 
are a member.
The FCA describes PCP as a form of hire-purchase which combines lower monthly 
repayments with a final balloon payment. The FLA describes PCP as a variation of a Hire 
Purchase agreement. Both say the key difference between a normal HP agreement and a 
PCP agreement is that the value of the car at the end of the contract is calculated at the start 
of the agreement and this value is deferred. The future value is based on a number of 
factors including how old the car will be at the end of the agreement and how many miles it 
is expected to have covered.
The FLA also describe a PCP agreement as giving consumers the flexibility to decide 
whether they would like to own the car outright at the end of the agreement by paying the 
deferred value, or returning the car to the lender and entering into a new car finance 
agreement.
I agree with the FCA and the FLA  a PCP agreement is a Hire Purchase agreement. So I 
can see why Mr M was surprised to find out he didnt have the type of agreement he 
expected. Hed asked the dealer for a PCP agreement, he was given an agreement that 
looked like a PCP, supported by paperwork that said it was a PCP.
 
Santander say he should have read the agreement. They say if hed done so, hed have 
seen there was no mention of the right to voluntary terminate.
I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect a consumer to notice the right to terminate the 
agreement early was missing from the agreement. Hire purchase agreements are regulated 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Section 99 of the Act gives consumers the right to 
terminate a hire purchase agreement at any time before the final payment is due. This was a 
key difference in the agreement he entered into, and the one he thought hed entered into. 
And this should have been brought to his attention.
The right to terminate gives the consumer the right to give the car back at any point before 
the final payment, with liability capped at one half of the total cost of the agreement. This is 
because under this type of agreement, ownership of the car remains with the lender, in this case Santander. Under a fixed sum loan agreement, the loan is used to purchase the car so 
the consumer owns the car, and voluntary termination doesnt apply to this type of loan.
Im aware that the agreement he signed is clearly titled Fixed Sum Loan Agreement. But all 
other documentation, including the correspondence sent to him in October 2020 about the 
agreement coming to an end, is described by Santander as PCP.
So Im satisfied the nature of the agreement and its key features werent made clear to Mr M.
And this means that Mr M entered into the agreement without knowing all the information he 
need to make an informed decision.
He was upgrading his car and expected another PCP agreement. He got the important 
things he was looking for, the term, the monthly payments, the final value (although not 
described as a balloon payment), and the annual mileage. And hes explained how he 
negotiated a significantly higher annual mileage allowance than originally offered by the 
dealer. So Im satisfied he knew how a PCP agreement worked.
Ive considered if hed have walked away from the deal if hed known he didnt have the right 
to terminate the agreement early. Hes told me that he works in the entertainment industry, 
and whilst at the time of the agreement he was working in the United Kingdom, he was 
always aware that an opportunity to work abroad was a possibility. He says thats why the 
opportunity to voluntary terminate was attractive to him.
I find his testimony persuasive, and hes provided travel receipts to show that he did in fact 
start working abroad.
Ive explained why I think a PCP agreement is a hire purchase  agreement, so it follows that 
Id expect Mr Ms agreement should have all the features of a hire purchase agreement. That 
includes the right to terminate the agreement.
Mr M says he lost out because he wanted to voluntary terminate the agreement. I agree, he 
was sold an agreement that was described as a PCP agreement and should have all the 
features of this type of agreement. But the actual agreement he entered into was a Fixed 
Sum Loan Agreement. I think that because of the nature of his employment, its more likely 
than not that he wouldnt have entered into this agreement if hed known it didnt give him the 
right to voluntary terminate.
So Im satisfied that he entered into the agreement without knowing the features of the 
agreement  as lender and brokers are required to provide under the rules set by the FCA, 
the industry regulator.
I think Santander should now accept Mr Ms request to voluntary terminate the car. It should 
treat that acceptance as if it happened in October 2019, when Mr M first attempted to end 
the agreement. It should redress Mr M as Ive set out below.
For completeness Ill also address the other issues covered by our investigator  although 
they dont affect the outcome or the redress Im proposing.
The Finance Marker
Santander described their reasons for placing a finance marker. Im not convinced it was 
reasonable for them to do this. I note it was marked as a personal loan not Hire Purchase, 
so the marker wasnt technically wrong. But I agree with our investigator  they should have told him about it, and removed it when they knew he wanted to end the agreement. If theyd 
done so its likely that he wouldve been able to sell his car at the time.
He did what wed expect consumers to do during a dispute, and continued to make the 
contractual payments. He did this despite ill health and losing his job. Although I understand 
he took the payment holiday offered during the pandemic.
Putting things right
Mr M first asked Santander about how he could end the agreement in August 2019. And in 
October 2019 he attempted to sell the vehicle. So I think its reasonable to assume hed 
have returned the vehicle and terminated the agreement at that time.
Hes told us hes not used the car since making complaint as he was out of the country for 
much of the time. And then he was out of work. But he still had to have the put the car 
through an MOT test, and he continued to insure the car, as he was still the registered 
keeper.
As I said above, he continued to make payments after bringing the complaint to us. So I 
think its fair and reasonable for those payments to be returned to him because they wouldnt 
be due if Santander had allowed him to terminate the agreement. 
To put things right, Santander should:
Take the car back at no cost to Mr M and end the finance agreement
confirming he has nothing more to pay
Mr M should be awarded £250 for the trouble and upset caused, especially 
having to make payments causing undue financial strain
I'm persuaded Mr M hasn't been using the car (hes told me that hes registered the 
car as off the road (SORN)). Santander should return all monthly repayments made 
since November 2019 minus any outstanding settlement balance
On production of receipts by Mr M, refund the cost of the MOT, and the insurance 
premium he paid.
The refunds due for the premiums paid, the cost of the MOT, and the insurance will be 
subject to 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding this complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc  
trading as Santander Consumer Finance should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman