DRN-4490106
The complaint
Ms H has complained about the quality of a phone she bought using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Tesco Mobile Limited
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to the parties so Im not going to go over 
everything again in detail. But in summary, in June 2020 Ms H bought a new phone for 
around £600 under a fixed sum loan agreement with Tesco Mobile. It looks like Tesco 
Mobile is also the supplier of the phone. Ms H made a £180 advance payment and was due 
to pay back the loan agreement with monthly repayments of around £12 for three years. 
In January 2023 Ms H contacted Tesco Mobile because of a fault with the phone. 
Tesco Mobile said, in summary, that the manufacturer provided a 12-month warranty for the 
phone, and for faults that manifest after this time, repairs become chargeable. 
It looks like Tesco Mobile gave Ms H details of the repair process, but Ms H was unhappy 
with the support it was offering. She says she took the phone to the manufacturer, and it said 
there were no signs of physical damage or customer misuse. It looks like Tesco Mobile 
made an offer to Ms H, but she didnt accept it. Ms H referred her complaint to our service to 
consider. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt uphold the complaint. She said she 
didnt think there was sufficient evidence the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality given how 
long Ms H was able to use it for  almost three years. She highlighted Tesco Mobile had 
asked Ms H to contact it about a missed payment towards the airtime, but that wasnt 
something the Financial Ombudsman could help with. 
Ms H didnt agree with the assessment. In summary, she said:
She wasnt unhappy with the quality of the mobile. It stopped working while under 
contract with Tesco Mobile. 
The contract was for around £27 per month. 
The manufacturer said there were no signs of physical damage or customer misuse. 
She was unaware the phone only had a 12-month warranty and that it should remain 
valid for the 3 years. 
Tesco Mobile should provide a working phone for the life of the contract. 
Tesco Mobile didnt open the phone to check whether there was an inherent fault. 
Tesco Mobile offered a 30% reduction to purchase a new mobile phone from Tesco 
Mobile. 
Her contract ended in June 2023, so why was she sent an invoice in July 2023 for 
£15. 
As things werent resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to resolve 
complaints quickly and with minimum formality. I want to assure Ms H and Tesco Mobile that 
Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I 
havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our 
powers allow me to do this.
Ms H bought the phone using a regulated fixed sum loan agreement, and our service is able 
to deal with complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
The agreement sets out that Tesco Mobile sells the device subject to the terms implied by 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA implies terms into the contract that goods 
supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA also sets out what remedies are available to 
consumers if statutory rights under a goods contract are not met. 
The CRA sets out that goods which do not conform to the contract at any time within the 
period of six months beginning with the day on which the goods were delivered to the 
consumer must be taken not to have conformed to it on that day unless its established the 
goods did conform to the contract on that day or that the application is incompatible with the 
nature of the goods or with how they fail to conform to the contract. 
In Ms Hs case, she reported a fault with the phone around two and a half years after she 
bought it. Even though Ms H says the manufacturer told her there were no signs of physical 
damage or customer misuse, Ive not been supplied sufficient evidence of what is wrong with 
the phone, nor that the problem was as a result of something inherent. Given how long shed 
been in possession of the phone, it would be up to Ms H to demonstrate that the phone 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. But based on what Ive been supplied, Ive 
not seen enough to show the phone wasnt durable, or that it was of unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of sale. So I dont think Tesco Mobiles response was unfair. 
I appreciate Ms H thinks the phone should at least last for as long as the contract is active. 
But theres nothing in the CRA that sets out goods need to last as long as an associated 
loan agreement. Ms H could have paid for the phone with one payment or could have paid it 
off with a loan over 10 years for example. But this doesnt change the implied terms around 
satisfactory quality. 
While I know shell be disappointed, Ive not seen enough to demonstrate the phone wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. I therefore dont have the grounds to direct Tesco Mobile to take any 
action. And, like our investigator pointed out, it looks as though the payment Ms H says she 
was contacted about in July 2023 relates to her airtime agreement. The Financial 
Ombudsman doesnt have the power to deal with complaints about airtime agreements, 
because this isnt in relation to a regulated activity. Ms H may wish to speak to Tesco Mobile 
about this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman