DRN-4494421
The complaint
Mr S complains Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly declined his claim and accused him of 
fraud. 
What happened
Mr S held a travel insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. In March 2022 he travelled 
abroad for a holiday to a country in North America, with a group of friends. While he was 
there, he was attacked, and his belongings were stolen. 
Mr S made a claim for the stolen items. These included three electronic gadgets, cash and 
the designer shoes he was wearing. He provided evidence including a police report and 
proof of purchase of the stolen items. 
When assessing the claim, Great Lakes asked Mr S for IMEI numbers for the devices, 
evidence of his medical treatment following the incident and a copy of the outcome from the 
police after he reported the crime. Mr S said he had received nothing further from the police, 
other than the copy he provided of his report. And he explained the doctor who gave him first 
aid was one of the friends he had travelled with. He sent Great Lakes an email from his 
friend, describing what he had seen and Mr Ss injuries.  
Great Lakes declined the claim in February 2023. It stated it had concluded the claim was 
fictitious and unfounded. And it said because of this, it had cancelled Mr Ss policy and 
would retain the premiums he had paid. 
The policy terms include the following wording within the condition for fraudulent and 
unfounded claims. 
If any claim under this policy is in any respect fraudulent or unfounded, all benefit 
paid and/or payable in relation to that fraudulent claim shall be forfeited and (if 
appropriate) recoverable.
We need not return any premiums paid
The policy relating to the insured who has committed the fraudulent act may be 
rendered as invalid
Mr S complained to Great Lakes. In its response, Great Lakes said it used a number of tools 
to investigate claims, including tracking electronic items. And it said following its investigation 
it found discrepancies in the evidence Mr S had provided, and that was the reason it 
declined the claim. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service and the case was 
passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Firstly, I should say Im aware Mr S has further evidence he wishes to be considered 
in support of his claim. However, this wasnt originally supplied to Great Lakes. I can 
only consider the information available to the insurer at the time it declined the claim 
and issued its final response, so Im unable to review the additional items Mr S has 
supplied, as part of this complaint. 
Great Lakes has said it had concerns about the circumstances of Mr Ss claim. It 
found the IMEI number of Mr Ss phone had been checked by a trader in November 
2022. And it said it thought this meant Mr Ss phone was being sold. 
Great Lakes has provided this service with a copy of the IMEI report. And having 
reviewed it, I dont think it was reasonable for the insurer to conclude that the phone 
hadnt been stolen in the circumstances Mr S stated. I say this because this report 
merely evidences that someone searched Mr Ss phones IMEI number in November 
2022. Nothing within the report shows whether this search was carried out from the 
UK, North America or elsewhere. Im aware that the search based on an IMEI 
number can be conducted by anyone online, so I dont think this evidences that the 
search was carried out by someone in possession of the phone, nor does it rule out 
the possibility that another IMEI number was being searched, and that the number for 
Mr Ss phone could have been entered in error. So, the report doesnt persuade me 
that this means Mr Ss phone was not stolen in the way that he said. And I dont think 
it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on it to decline the claim. 
Great Lakes also had concerns over the lack of medical evidence Mr S provided in 
support of his claim. Whilst I think its unusual for someone not to attend hospital 
after the kind of attack Mr S described, I think its reasonable this wasnt necessary 
as there was a doctor within his travelling group. 
Great Lakes had concerns about the authenticity of the email Mr S provided from his 
friend and has said the passenger list within the travel documents listed the friends 
name as Mr and not Dr. However, I cant see that it asked Mr S for any explanation 
or evidence of this. I think there could be many reasons as to why Mr Ss friend was 
recorded on the booking as Mr and not Dr. And I think it would have been 
straightforward enough for Great Lakes to verify whether or not this person was in 
fact a doctor, by asking Mr S for more details. 
In addition, Mr S was not claiming for any medical expenses, so I dont think the 
details of the doctor who provided him first aid are particularly significant. And I think 
Great Lakes unfairly placed too much weight on this element.
Given the above and having considered the situation overall, I think Great Lakes has 
acted unfairly in deeming Mr Ss claim to be unfounded and cancelling the policy. 
And I dont think it did enough to investigate its concerns about the claim.  So, I 
intend to direct Great Lakes to reinstate the policy and re-assess the claim, including 
reviewing any further evidence Mr S would like to supply at this stage.
Ive noted Mr S couldnt get any clear updates when he called Great Lakes to chase 
the progress of his claim. And has said he has been very concerned about the 
potential impact to him and his career in terms of being accused of making a 
fraudulent insurance claim. And as Ive found Great Lakes acted unfairly, I intend to 
direct it to pay Mr S £250 to recognise the distress and inconvenience he has been 
caused.  The responses to my provisional decision 
Mr S responded accepting my provisional decision. Great Lakes also responded and said it 
was now willing to review the additional information Mr S wanted to provide in support of his 
claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any further points, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
reinstate the policy, re-assess the claim and pay Mr S £250 for the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman