DRN-2089959
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her claim 
for her dogs treatment and added an exclusion to her policy from inception.
What happened
Mrs S has had pet insurance for her dog with Red Sands since April 2018. When Mrs S took 
out the policy online, she didnt declare that her dog had previously had surgery, in April 
2017, to repair his right hind cruciate ligament. 
The terms and conditions of the policy, which were sent to Mrs S together with a policy 
schedule, state that any pre-existing condition isnt covered. 
In August 2019 her dog sustained an injury to his left hind leg, which was diagnosed as a 
cruciate ligament rupture. Mrs S was told he required surgery to repair this. She submitted a 
claim to Red Sands for pre-authorisation of the cost of his treatment. When her claim was 
received Red Sands contacted Mrs Ss vet for details of her dogs clinical history. These 
included details of his surgery in April 2017 to repair his right hind cruciate ligament. 
Having considered the records Red Sands declined Mrs Ss claim, on the basis that her dog 
required surgery as a result of a pre-existing condition, which wasnt covered by the policy. 
And they said that had she declared his earlier surgery to repair his right hind cruciate 
ligament, theyd have added an exclusion to the policy, in relation to any claim relating to 
both stifles. So they added such an exclusion to her policy from inception.
Mrs S was unhappy about this and raised a complaint. She said that the policy had been 
mis-sold as it wasnt written in plain English, and the explanation of what was considered a 
bilateral condition wasnt clear. And she felt the wording of the exclusion Red Sands added 
to her policy wasnt clear, as she didnt know what a stifle was.
Red Sands didnt uphold her complaint as they maintained her dogs treatment was related 
to a pre-existing condition, chronic degenerative cruciate disease, and her policy clearly 
stated the any such condition wasnt covered. They also said that the policy clearly 
explained what they considered to be a bilateral condition. Which was that where a 
condition affected one body part, of which the pet had two, one on each side of the body, 
these would be considered a bilateral condition, and when applying any policy limit, or 
exclusion, bilateral conditions are regarded as one condition. And they said Mrs S was 
provided enough information with her policy documentation to decide if the cover provided 
was appropriate for her.
Red Sands also said the exclusion had been correctly added to Mrs Ss policy, from 
inception, in line with their underwriting criteria. And had she declared her dogs previous 
surgery, as she was required to do, the exclusion would have been added to the policy from 
the outset.
Mrs S didnt accept Red Sands response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case and said it appeared that Red Sands had declined the claim, based on 
the exclusion in the policy relating to bilateral conditions. But he didnt think that the earlier 
injury to the dogs right hind leg, should prevent Mrs S making a claim if the cause of the 
injuries was different, and there was no link between them. 
Reds Sands had said that both cruciate injuries were the result of chronic cruciate disease. 
But looking at the dogs records our investigator said there didnt appear to be any ongoing 
mobility issues, after the first injury in 2017, which was described as cruciate damage. And 
even though the injury in 2019 was to the dogs left stifle, it was described as a cruciate 
rupture. So he didnt think Red Sands had shown it had the same cause as the earlier injury.
He asked Reds Sands for evidence that they two injuries were linked, and they replied that 
both were caused by underlying chronic cruciate disease. But he didnt think theyd shown 
the dog suffered from degenerative cruciate disease. So he didnt accept the rupture to the 
dogs left hind cruciate ligament was linked to its earlier right hind cruciate damage, and he 
recommended Red Sands pay Mrs Ss claim for her dogs treatment.  
After our investigator provided his view Reds Sands instructed a vet to provide her opinion 
on the cause of the dogs injuries. The vet considered the dogs clinical history and said that 
cruciate damage tends to be degenerative in most cases, with damage occurring bilaterally 
(to both limbs) as a result. So both ligaments are damaged, but often theyll rupture at 
different times. 
But she also said the occasionally traumatic rupture in the absence of degeneration does 
occur. And in this case the dogs records state that he was playing prior to both injuries 
occurring. She says whether the "play" here was rough enough to damage healthy 
ligaments, or whether this was "normal activity" that resulted in degenerated ligaments 
snapping is open to interpretation. 
She goes on to say that theres no history in either limb of intermittent lameness, with 
nothing to suggest that these stifles were degenerating slowly. Traumatic rupture, where 
bilateral degeneration isn't the issue, doesn't necessarily lead to opposing limb rupture. So 
she said unless Red Sands could definitely conclude there was degeneration, and there was 
nothing in the dogs records to support this, it's hard to apply the opposing limb exclusion 
too.   
So the vet instructed by Red Sands to support their view that the dog suffers from 
degenerative cruciate disease, said there was nothing in his records to support this 
conclusion.
When Red Sands provided a copy of their vets report they asked our investigator to 
remember, that if Mrs S had declared details of her dogs 2017 surgery, theyd have 
excluded cover for any injury to his stifles, so even if the injuries werent linked, the claim 
wouldnt have been covered.
Our investigator considered the vets report and further comments provided by Red Sands, 
but said this didnt change his opinion that Red Sands shouldnt have declined Mrs Ss claim. 
And he still felt Red Sands should cover the cost of her dogs treatment.
Red Sands didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case has now come to me for a 
decision.
  What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In this case I need to consider the following:
Should Mrs S have declared her dogs 2017 surgery when taking out her policy with 
Red Sands.
Was the policy mis-sold as Mrs S alleges as the terms and conditions dont make it 
clear what the policy covers.
Was her dogs 2019 left cruciate rupture the result of degenerative cruciate disease, 
so it was the result of a pre-existing, or bilateral condition, which isnt covered by the 
policy.
Was it reasonable for Red Sands to add an exclusion to the policy in 2019. And can 
they decline cover based on this exclusion.
Should Mrs S have declared her dogs 2017 surgery
When Mrs S took out cover for her dog with Red Sands one of the questions she was asked 
was Have you ever taken your dog to the vet for anything other than routine vaccinations? If 
the answer to this question was yes, then she was asked to call Red Sands. But despite her 
dog having surgery to repair damage to his right hind cruciate ligament in 2017, she 
answered no to this question. 
Although Mrs S has told us that the 2017 surgery fully resolved her dogs problem, Im 
satisfied she should have answered yes to this question, and called Red Sands to provide 
details of the treatment hed needed.
Was the policy mis-sold to Mrs S as it doesnt clearly state what is covered
On page four of the policy, under the heading Your Policy Summary theres an explanation 
of what Red Sands considers to be a bilateral condition. On page five, under the heading 
Whats not covered its stated that the policy doesnt cover Any claim or costs for or relating 
to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, injury or illness that first showed clinical 
signs at any time before the commencement date of the policy or within 14 days of the 
commencement date.
Im satisfied the policy terms and conditions clearly set out that no cover is provided in 
respect of pre-existing conditions and explains what Red Sands treats as a bilateral 
condition. The Key Facts document Mrs S was sent with her policy also confirms that theres 
no cover for pre-existing conditions. And Mrs S had 14 days after purchasing the policy to 
cancel if, having read the terms and conditions, the policy wasnt suitable for her needs.
Mrs S has also complained that the wording of the exclusion Red Sands added to her policy 
isnt clear, as she didnt understand what stifle meant. While I accept that stifle is a word 
Mrs S may have been unfamiliar with, I think it would be reasonable for her to assume it 
related to her dogs hind legs, as this was the area her claim related to. And if she needed 
an explanation of what was being excluded, she could have called Red Sands for this. 
Ive noted that when the dog was seen by Mrs Ss vet before his 2017 surgery, the vet refers 
to instability in the right stifle and that pain is definitely coming from the right stifle. (The 
stifle is a complex joint in the hind limbs of animals such as dogs and horses. It joins 
together the femur, patella and tibia). If Mrs S didnt understand what the stifle was, Id have 
expected her to ask her vet, although I accept that between the dogs 2017 surgery, and 
2019 injury, she may have forgotten any explanation she was given.So Im not persuaded that the wording of Mrs Ss policy was unclear or that the policy was 
mis-sold to her.
Was the dogs 2019 left cruciate rupture the result of pre-existing degenerative cruciate 
disease and a bilateral condition that isnt covered by the policy
When Mrs S made her 2019 claim for pre-authorisation of her dogs surgery to repair his left 
hind cruciate ligament rupture, Red Sands said most cruciate ligament problems are caused 
by degenerative cruciate disease, which in this case they say affected both of the dogs hind 
cruciate ligaments. And even though his left cruciate ligament didnt rupture until over two 
years after his 2017 surgery, the rupture had the same cause, degenerative cruciate 
disease. So they said it wasnt covered as it was both a pre-existing and bilateral condition.
Looking at the dogs clinical history theres no evidence of any problem with lameness before 
December 2016. Mrs S took him to the vet on 31 December 2016, when she reported that 
hed yelped when playing with another dog and after this he couldnt weight bear on his right 
hind leg. 
On examination the dog was noted to be in pain and there was instability over his right stifle. 
The vet was concerned about possible cruciate damage. The dog didnt improve with rest 
and medication and required surgery to repair his right hind cruciate in early April 2017. 
Having considered the dogs clinical records these suggest the 2017 right cruciate injury may 
have been traumatic. And after he recovered from his surgery, he doesnt appear to have 
had any ongoing problem with the right hind leg, or of any problem with the left hind leg 
before August 2019.
The vets notes for 12 August 2019 record the history given by Mrs S. She said the previous 
evening her dog had been playing, she heard him yelp, and he hadnt been able to put 
weight on his left hind leg since. Because of his earlier injury she suspected a cruciate injury. 
X-rays confirmed a left hind cruciate ligament rupture. The dog needed surgery to repair his 
left hind cruciate ligament. And this is the treatment Red Sands have declined cover for.
From the dogs records theres no clear evidence to support Red Sands view that either his 
2017, or his 2019 injury, were the result of degenerative cruciate disease. Red Sands have 
told Mrs S that both injuries have the same cause, degenerative cruciate disease, that its 
common for the second cruciate ligament to rupture at a later date, and in between for the 
dog to have episodes of lameness and periods when he was asymptomatic. Buts theres no 
evidence of any problem with his left hind limb before August 2019.
I also have to consider what Red Sands vet has said. She accepted that the 2017 cruciate 
damage could have been traumatic. And said, traumatic rupture, where bilateral 
degeneration isn't the issue, doesn't necessarily lead to opposing limb rupture. She also 
said that unless Red Sands could definitely conclude there was degeneration, and there was 
nothing in the dogs records to support this, it's hard to apply the opposing limb exclusion 
too.   
Having considered the dogs clinical history, and the opinion of Red Sands vet, Im not 
persuaded that Reds Sands have shown that the dogs 2019 cruciate rupture was the result 
of either a pre-existing or a bilateral condition. So I dont accept that they can decline cover 
for his surgery on this basis.
Was it reasonable for Red Sands to add an exclusion to the policy in 2019. And can they 
decline cover based on this exclusionRed Sands have provided underwriting evidence that if the dogs clinical history had been 
declared, when Mrs S took out the policy, they would have added the following exclusion, 
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to both stifles with effect from inception. This is 
the exclusion they added to Mrs Ss policy on 23 September 2019, once theyd seen her 
dogs clinical records. 
Given the dogs clinical history I can understand why Red Sands would want to consider 
adding an exclusion to Mrs Ss policy. And as Ive said she should have declared his 2017 
surgery, I think its reasonable for an exclusion to be added from the start of the policy. 
But, having said this, I need to consider the wording of the exclusion and whether its too 
wide. And in this case, I think it is, as theres no evidence that the 2019 left cruciate rupture 
was the result of a pre-existing condition, or a bilateral condition. So I think the exclusion 
should be limited to claims relating to the right stifle. 
As Ive said the exclusion shouldnt cover the dogs left stifle it follows that I dont agree that 
Red Sands can decline cover for Mrs Ss claim on the basis of the exclusion. So Im 
persuaded that Red Sands havent acted fairly in declining Mrs Ss claim. And to put things 
right I require them to pay the claim for the cost of her dogs 2019 treatment for his left hind 
cruciate ligament rupture.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss claim against Red 
Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. 
And to put things right I require them to pay her claim for the cost of her dogs 2019 
treatment for his left hind cruciate ligament rupture.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman