DRN-3440261
The complaint
Miss B complains that Equifax Limited included information on her credit file that belonged to 
a third party.
Miss B says that because of Equifaxs mistake, she was declined credit. She wants Equifax 
to pay more compensation than its offered to date.
What happened
In July 2021, Miss B applied for credit to buy a car when she was at the dealership. Miss B 
was surprised when her application was declined as she didnt have any negative 
information on her credit file. 
Miss B says the dealership was also surprised and suggested an alternative credit broker. 
When the broker contacted Miss B the next day, she says they asked to speak to the third 
party. The broker recommended that Miss B check her Equifax credit report due to the third 
partys data appearing on it.
When Miss B viewed her Equifax credit report, she was able to see the third partys financial 
information. Although Equifax later removed the information, Miss B was unhappy that shed 
been declined credit because the lender could also see negative credit information belonging 
to the third party.
The investigator originally recommended that Miss Bs complaint be upheld and asked 
Equifax to increase its offer of compensation from £200 to £500.
Equifax disagreed with the investigators recommendation. It said that when the broker 
carried out the later searches, it did so using a name that was an amalgamation of the third 
party and Miss Bs middle names. This then created a link on Equifaxs system. Equifax 
didnt think this link was there when the first credit search was carried out slightly earlier in 
the day. 
The investigator sent a revised view in which she no longer recommended upholding      
Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B is unhappy with the investigators latest view. She says she noticed details belonging 
to the third party when she logged on to her Equifax account despite it showing Miss Bs full 
name as the account holder. Miss B doesnt think that Equifax has demonstrated that the 
merge hadnt already happened before the first credit check was carried out. 
Miss B doesnt think that Equifaxs offer of compensation adequately reflects the financial 
and emotional impact the mistake has had on her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me. 
My role is to consider whether Equifax made a mistake and if so, whether it should do more 
than its already offered to put things right. In cases like this where the evidence is 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision based on the balance of probabilities. That 
means Ill look at all the available evidence and decide what I think is most likely to have 
happened.
Equifax has given this service details of the searches that were carried out in July 2021. The 
first search was carried out using Miss Bs full name and correct date of birth. This 
application was immediately declined but we dont have any explanation of why this 
happened. I can appreciate why Miss B thinks the most likely answer is that the lender could 
see negative data belonging to the third party but I dont agree this is necessarily the case. 
I want to reassure Miss B that Ive taken account of her comments about the dealer saying 
that in its experience, an automatic decline would only happen if the customer had a CCJ or 
some other negative information on their credit file. But a lender will carry out checks that 
take account of various factors, like the amount being lent, the cost to the borrower and the 
borrowers credit history. Although Miss B wasnt aware of any negative information on her 
credit file, she had a limited credit history at the time. Its possible that this led the first lender 
to decline Miss Bs credit application. So, I dont think I can automatically assume that the 
data belonging to the third party was the reason behind Miss Bs credit application being 
declined. 
When the credit broker tried to find an alternative source of credit, it appears that it carried 
out searches in a name that wasnt that of Miss Bs and it used a different date of birth. I 
cant account for why the broker did this. I think it would be for Miss B to approach the broker 
to find out why this happened.
The name that the broker used to carry out the searches did include Miss Bs second name 
as well as her surname but the searches used a third party name and date of birth. Equifax 
thinks this is the most likely reason why a link was created between Miss B and the third 
party. I agree that this seems a plausible explanation. I cant find any reason why the link 
was created beforehand as Miss Bs first name and date of birth is different to that of the 
third party.
I appreciate that Miss B ended up getting more costly car finance and would like Equifax to 
bear this additional cost but for the reasons Ive set out above, I cant be sure the first failed 
credit application was because Equifax made a mistake.
Once Miss B complained to Equifax it took steps to load a notice of disassociation which has 
removed the third partys data from Miss Bs credit file. For the upset caused to Miss B, 
Equifax offered a total of £200 compensation.  
Although the mistake was upsetting for Miss B, Im satisfied that Equifax responded 
promptly. It loaded the first notice of disassociation the day after Miss B complained. Equifax 
had to load a second notice a week later as the third partys electoral roll information still 
appeared on Miss Bs credit file. I can see that Equifax delayed telling Miss B about the first 
notice of disassociation until it sent its final response on 28 July. This wasnt ideal but I think 
Equifaxs offer of compensation adequately reflects the impact the mistake has had on    
Miss B given the information relating to the third party information doesnt appear to have 
remained on her credit file for long. I should also say that this service doesnt regulate or supervise businesses, so I cant punish Equifax for the data breach  that would be a matter 
for the regulator to decide.
I am sorry to hear about Miss Bs credit score but there are many reasons why credit scores 
go up and down. As Im not persuaded that the initial credit application decline was due to 
Equifaxs mistake, it follows that I cant blame it for any subsequent decrease in Miss Bs 
credit score.
My final decision
Equifax Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Equifax Limited should pay £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman