DRN-3460849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that investment advice they received from Lloyds Bank PLC was 
unsuitable for them. Theyre represented by a claims management company (CMC), which 
has said, in short, that the recommendation carried too much risk for Mr and Mrs B as they 
were first time investors with a limited capacity for loss.   
What happened
In October 2000 Mr and Mrs B were advised to each place £7,000 into a unit trust ISA. At 
the time they were in their 30s and both working full-time, with a joint income of around 
£28,000. They had recently bought a new property and the fact find recorded that they had 
received a lump sum (around £46,000) from the sale of a previous property and wanted to 
invest some of it with an aim of earning better returns than those available from leaving it on 
deposit.  
Mr and Mrs B were categorised as having a medium attitude to risk, which led to both ISAs 
being invested in the equity-based Scottish Widows UK Growth fund. They maintained the 
investments until July 2003, when they were both surrendered, returning just under £5,000 
each. A complaint about the potential unsuitability of the advice was then later made by the 
CMC on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf in 2021. 
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the advice to invest 
in the UK Growth fund had been suitable for Mr and Mrs B. She said, in brief:
She couldnt see how Mr and Mrs Bs medium attitude to risk had been determined. 
They hadnt invested before and it was noted in the fact find that theyd never had 
money available for long-savings or investment.
The UK Growth fund was made up of 97% equities, with the potential for significant 
volatility. 
This was unlikely to be the sort of risk Mr and Mrs B wouldve wanted to take, given 
their circumstances. 
They didnt need to expose their money to this level of risk to achieve their 
objectives.   
The investigator recommended Mr and Mrs B be compensated by Lloyds based on a 
comparison of the performance of the recommended investments with our cautious 
investment risk benchmark. 
Lloyds didnt accept the investigators view. It made several further submissions saying, in 
brief:
Mr and Mrs B were in a position to accept a medium level of risk for the invested 
money and had capacity for loss. They were in their 30s, in permanent employment 
with no dependents and a small mortgage. They were left with 70% of their savings 
to fall back on. 
Although novice investors, this didnt mean they necessarily had to invest at a 
cautious level of risk. 
Although equity investment could be volatile, the recommended fund included a 
diverse spread of equities across a variety of industries. 
The compensation recommended by the investigator was based on Mr and Mrs B 
having been cautious investors. However, the fact they didnt complain in 2003, when 
they experienced a significant loss on surrender, suggested they were, in fact, more 
likely medium-risk investors who were prepared to accept such losses.
Their attitude to risk wouldve been determined by the adviser following a robust 
process of assessment and a review of documentation about investment risk and the 
fund. 
They had signed documents to confirm they understood the investments, 
documentation and the risks involved.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion. Lloyds provided some further 
comments, stressing its view that the absence of a complaint by Mr and Mrs B in 2003 was a 
clear indication of their acceptance and understanding of a medium level of risk. Lloyds also 
challenged what it saw as incorrect assumptions made by the investigator about Mr and 
Mrs Bs limited income, saying this wasnt supported by the evidence and that their 
circumstances supported the recommendation of the fund. Lloyds highlighted that two 
meetings with the adviser had taken place, some months apart, with sufficient time therefore 
given to Mr and Mrs B to consider the advice, having gone through a process that had 
provided them with comprehensive information and a clear understanding. 
Despite these further comments, the investigator remained of the opinion that the complaint 
should be upheld. So, as no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B had around £46,000 cash available at the time of the advice, which it appears 
had come to them by way of the sale of a property. Given their ages, their employment 
status and the apparent absence of any dependents, it seems reasonable that they would 
have wanted to do something with some of that money to improve upon deposit returns. And 
indeed, thats what was noted in the fact find as their objective.
So, investing an amount of £14,000, around 30% of the cash available, appears to have 
been suitable. The fact that they had just taken out a mortgage has been noted by the CMC, 
but I dont think its unreasonable that they might have chosen to proceed with that new 
liability while keeping the £46,000 separate to provide them with some flexibility. The 
management of finances in that way is not unusual. 
So, the question at the heart of the complaint is whether it was then suitable to place the 
entire £14,000 into an equity-based fund. Lloyds has said that first-time investors shouldnt, 
by default, have to invest at a cautious level risk. Its pointed to Mr and Mrs Bs ages and 
stable financial/employment situation to support its argument that they were in a position to 
accept the medium level of risk that would be associated with investing in a UK equity fund. 
And its relied heavily on its view that the adviser wouldve adopted a detailed, structured 
process for determining their attitude to risk and then explaining the subsequent 
recommendation. 
While I note the first point, I nevertheless think the default position is broadly that a novice investor is more likely than not to be a cautious investor. But, of course, there are then the 
specific circumstances, objectives and understanding of risk to consider that may lead to a 
reasonable conclusion that a medium, or even higher, level of risk is actually suitable. 
The issue I have when looking at the evidence and specific circumstances in Mr and Mrs Bs 
case is that there is nothing, beyond what Lloyds has now said about the process the 
adviser would have followed, to support why she concluded that the UK Growth fund was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B. For instance, theres no documented explanation of how the 
medium-risk attitude to risk was determined. 
Similarly, theres nothing in writing to confirm that the nature of investment risk in general, or 
specifically of the fund, was discussed or explained. Of note is the fact that the Summary 
and Recommendations report issued to Mr and Mrs B doesnt mentioned the fund by name 
at all, or describe it in any way, saying only The fund choice/product agrees with your 
attitude to risk. While brochures about the fund and product may have been provided to Mr 
and Mrs B, this doesnt absolve the adviser from a responsibility to ensure understanding of 
what is being recommended.
I note Lloyds had cautioned against judging the process and documentation against current 
requirements, given that the advice was provided in August 2000. But its nevertheless the 
case that a report was produced personally for Mr and Mrs B that gave the adviser the 
opportunity to explain her recommendation and why she was of the view that it was suitable 
for all of Mr and Mrs Bs invested money to be placed in the one equity fund. 
But the report was very limited in detail and featured much cut and paste information. 
Without at least a passing reference to Mr and Mrs B  as novice investors wanting simply to 
achieve a better return than a savings account  understanding and wanting to take the risk 
associated with equity investment, I find it very difficult to conclude that the recommendation 
was suitable. 
As noted, Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time dont, of themselves, entirely rule out a 
medium-risk equity investment being suitable. But despite their stable employment and their 
ages, they werent in highly paid jobs, had just taken on a large new liability and had not 
previously had money to spare. This being so, it doesnt seem likely to me that they wouldve 
wanted to expose 30% of that money to the risk associated with equity investment. 
Lloyds has highlighted that the UK Growth fund was a diverse equity fund. But it was still 
reliant on only one type of volatile asset and the 10 largest holdings made up almost half the 
fund. On balance, I dont think its likely that Mr and Mrs B wouldve understood and 
recognised the potential for volatility and loss that investing only in the UK Growth fund 
entailed. As such, I think a more cautious investment strategy wouldve been more suitable 
for them. So, I find that the complaint should be upheld.
I note Lloyds comments about the fact Mr and Mrs B didnt complain when they made a 
large loss on surrender of the ISAs in 2003 and how this suggests an understanding, and 
acceptance, on their part of medium-risk investment. But given the significant and widely-
reported market crash over the period for which the ISAs were held, I dont think any 
particular conclusions about Mr and Mrs Bs likely understanding of risk at the time of the 
advice can be drawn from their decision to surrender several years later in 2003.   
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr and Mrs B as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested.
What must Lloyds do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Lloyds should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
ISAs No longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Lloyds should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:Mr and Mrs B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr and Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they 
were prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs B into that position. It does 
not mean that Mr and Mrs B would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs B could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Lloyds Bank 
PLC to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman