DRN-3233679
The complaint
Mr L complains that a car acquired with finance from PSA Finance UK Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In September 2020 Mr L was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with PSA. At the point of supply the car was around 4 years old and had covered 
around 36,500 miles.
Soon after getting the car, Mr L noticed that the rear door interior panel was loose. He 
reported this to the supplying dealer, who said it would collect the car and rectify the issue.
The car was collected but it was involved in an accident on the way to the dealership. The 
dealer informed Mr L and the car was taken to the dealers body shop for repairs. 
The car was delivered back to Mr L following repairs, but Mr L contacted the dealer and said 
he wasnt happy with the standard of repairs and wanted a refund because the car had been 
involved in an accident.
The dealer said it would buy the car back subject to a deduction for usage. Mr L wasnt 
happy with this and complained to PSA.
PSA said it accepted that the door had been faulty and offered one months finance payment 
as compensation. But it said that the accident damage didnt relate to satisfactory quality of 
the car at the point of sale and wasnt its responsibility.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants to reject the 
car.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that because PSA had accepted 
responsibility for the rear door interior panel, this was a fault for which PSA should bear the 
costs of repair. The investigator said he was satisfied that the redress offered by PSA 
covered the cost of repair and that the offer was fair. The investigator said that the isuses 
arising from the damage caused in the accident werent the responsibility of PSA.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that despite the dealers attempt to repair the door panel it was 
loose again and would cost £180 to repair. Mr L said he had asked to return the car within 30 
days because of the accident and that hed been left out of pocket because his car insurance 
premiums had increased as a  result of the accident.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because PSA supplied the car under a conditional sale agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a secondhand car to have a 
degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more often than a brand new car. So, in order 
to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the car had a fault at the point of 
supply, as opposed to a fault which occurred due to general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 30 days, a consumer 
can exercise an immediate right to reject. In the first 6 months, theres a presumption that 
the fault was present at the point of sale and its generally up to the business to put things 
right. The busines is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair isnt successful, 
the consumer can reject the car.
In this case, Mr L reported the issue with the door panel within the first 30 days. He says he 
asked to reject the car because it was involved in an accident during this time.
Ive thought about whether there was a fault with the car. Theres no dispute that the door 
card was loose, but this is a minor issue and not something which impacted on Mr Ls ability 
to use the car, or on his enjoyment of the car. Im not persuaded that this can be classed as 
a fault. Because of this, I dont think the fact that the door card was loose warrants a 
rejection of the car in the first 30 days.
That said, both PSA and the dealer accepted that there was an issue with the door card and 
agreed to put it right. So, Ive gone on to consider whether the repair was successful. Mr L 
has said the door card wasnt repaired properly and that it became loose again shortly after 
the repair. Mr L has said that he asked the dealer to repair it again, but it turned into an 
argument, so the repair wasnt completed. Mr L hasnt had the door card repaired yet but 
says it will cost £180 to repair elsewhere.
Ive already explained why I dont consider the door card to be a fault. So, even though it 
seems that the repair wasnt successful, I dont think this gives grounds to reject the car. In 
my view, the issue with the door card can be put down to general wear and tear, which is to 
be expected in a car of this age and mileage. Given that PSA accepted that there was an 
issue with the door card and offered to pay compensation to Mr L which is more than what it 
would cost for him to have the door card repaired again, I think PSAs offer is a fair 
resolution to the complaint.
I appreciate that Mr L is unhappy that the car was involved in an accident and that some 
issues have arisen as a result of that. However, these arent issues which go to the 
satisfactory quality of the car at the point of sale, so I cant hold PSA responsible for these. 
The issues which have occurred as a result of the accident should be taken up with the 
dealer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman