DRN-3652321
The complaint
Miss M complains about the advice given by Michael James to transfer the benefits from her 
defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal 
pension. she says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused a financial 
loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Miss Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Miss M was concerned about what the recent announcements by her employer
meant for the security of her pension, so around November 2017 she contacted her existing 
financial adviser for advice. Because they didnt hold the relevant regulatory permissions to 
advise on DB pension transfers, they referred Miss M to Michael James. I understand that 
around the same time, Miss M was in the process of making her choice to opt into the 
BSPS2.
Michael James completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Ms circumstances 
and objectives. Amongst other things this recorded that Miss M was 42; she was single; she 
owned her own home, which had an outstanding mortgage of around £170,000; her income 
was going to reduce because of the loss of a shift allowance; she had recently used all of 
her savings and investments to meet a personal need; she wanted to retire at 55 but was 
happy to continue to work; and she expected to need around £20,000 a year income in 
retirement. Michael James also carried out an assessment of Miss Ms attitude to risk, which 
it deemed to be balanced  a score of 5 out of 10.
On 16 November 2017 Michael James advised Miss M to transfer her pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in a range of funds Michael James deemed 
matched Miss Ms attitude to risk. 
In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to meet 
Miss Ms needs for early retirement at age 55 with the flexibility to take greater amounts of 
tax-free cash or income in the early years; to provide the ability for Miss M to pass on her 
fund to her family in the event of her death - the DB schemes death benefits were of little 
value to her being single; to address Miss Ms concerns about the BSPS and the new 
BSPS2 scheme; and because Miss M believed any future transfer value would be lower due 
to the decrease in her pensionable salary.
Miss M accepted the recommendation and shortly afterwards around £380,500 was 
transferred to her new personal pension.
Miss M complained in 2021 to Michael James about the suitability of the transfer advice  
Miss M had received a letter from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) telling her about 
instances of mis-selling in relation to transfers out of the BSPS, so she asked Michael James 
to review the advice it gave her.
Michael James didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. In summary it said it gathered all of the 
necessary personal information from Miss M including her personal circumstances, her 
objectives, her attitude to risk and her capacity for loss. And with this, along with analysis of 
the risk, benefits, advantages and disadvantages of transferring, it was decided that it was in 
Miss Ms best interests to transfer to meet her future requirements. It said Miss Ms pension 
had outperformed the required critical yield and so there was no financial loss. It said it 
continues to believe the advice was suitable.
Dissatisfied with its response, Miss M referred her complaint to our service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required Michael James to pay compensation. In summary they 
said, the transfer wasnt financially viable because the growth rate required to match 
Miss Ms DB scheme benefits wasnt likely achievable. They said Miss M was likely to 
receive lower retirement benefits as a result. They also said there were no other compelling
reasons to justify the transfer as being suitable  Miss M was 42 at the time so her plans for
retirement werent set; she couldve waited until closer to her desired retirement age and 
considered her financial situation then before making any decision to give up guaranteed 
benefits; she didnt need flexibility albeit she already had flexibility in retirement because she 
was contributing to her workplace Defined Contribution (DC) pension scheme; death 
benefits shouldnt have been prioritised over her income need in retirement - in any event 
she already had the ability to pass on lump sum death benefits to family through her DC 
scheme; and her concerns about the DB scheme werent sufficient reason to transfer. They 
said if suitable advice had been given, Miss M wouldve likely remained in the DB scheme 
and moved to the BSPS2.
Michael James disagreed. It provided a substantive response, which while I have read in full, 
I havent set everything out here. In summary it said:
Its not evident that the investigator determined the case by reference to whether 
Michael James took reasonable steps to ensure its recommendation was suitable for 
Miss M  COBS 9.2.1R.
The investigators assessment placed disproportionate weight on the critical yield  
what it called a blunt tool.
Reference to the discount rate was not a requirement of any material rule or 
guidance Michael James was required to follow or a practice the FCA expected it to 
adopt.
The assessment fails to have regard for Miss Ms personal circumstances, in 
particular that she would not need to rely in the income in retirement from the 
scheme.
The assessment appears to be based on the flawed assumption that Miss M had the 
option at the time of transferring to the BSPS2 which is also based on a mistaken 
assumption that the BSPS2 would inevitably come into existence.
Insufficient weight has been placed that Miss M clearly made an informed decision to 
proceed.
Causation has not been properly considered or assessed  there is no evidence to 
suggest that Miss M wouldve remained in the scheme and transferred to the BSPS2 (if this was an actual as opposed to a potential option) had she been advised to do 
so.
Michael James also asked for an oral hearing. It believed Miss M needed to be questioned 
further. It believes the investigators findings are in stark contrast to the evidence from the 
time and an oral hearing will ensure the complaint is fairly determined.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They said they didnt think any 
new evidence had been provided and they addressed some of the key points Michael James 
had made. In summary they said COBS 9.2.1R wasnt the only requirement on Michael 
James at the time  the additional regulatory requirement was that they had to clearly 
demonstrate the transfer was in Miss Ms best interests. They said the critical yield wasnt 
the only factor in determining whether the transfer was suitable, but it is important when 
considering valuable guarantees. They said they maintained the critical yield wasnt likely 
achievable. They said they thought Michael James did have sufficient information about the 
BSPS2 to be able to pass comment on it and that all of the available information at the time 
indicated it would go ahead as envisaged. They said the ombudsman would consider the 
request to convene a hearing.
The complaint was therefore referred to me to make a final decision and to decide whether 
to hold an oral hearing.
I turned down Michael Jamess request for an oral hearing because I was satisfied I could 
make a decision on the case fairly and reasonably without hearing oral evidence. So Im now 
providing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Michael James actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
I can see Michael James has referred on several occasions to its requirement to take
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave was suitable for Miss M  it says it didnt have 
to guarantee or prove that it would ultimately be suitable. And I agree that under COBS, 
Michael James was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Miss M was suitable for her (COBS 9.2.1). But additional regulations 
apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These are set out in COBS 19.1.6G in 
which the regulator, the FCA, states that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Michael James should have only considered a transfer if 
it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Miss Ms best interests. And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her best interests.
Financial viability
Michael James carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Miss Ms pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as her DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see this was based on 
Miss Ms existing BSPS scheme benefits. But at the time of the advice, Miss M didnt
have the option to remain in the BSPS. And Michael James understood this and 
documented as such. It also documented that Miss M was in the process of deciding to opt 
into the BSPS2 with the assistance of her existing financial adviser. So basing the analysis 
on the existing scheme was somewhat redundant and in my view wasnt helpful to Miss M.
I can see that in Michael James response to the investigators assessment, it said at the 
time of the advice it was not in a position to recommend a transfer to the BSPS2 - there is a 
flawed assumption that Miss M had the option at the time of transferring to the BSPS2. It 
said there was no certainty it would come into existence  it didnt exist at the material time. 
While the Time to Choose exercise was well underway, I accept the BSPS2 wasnt 
guaranteed to go ahead. But details of the scheme had been provided  the BSPS2 
wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been lower. 
And in my view, all of the communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very 
optimistic that the scheme operating conditions would be met. So I think it was reasonable 
for Michael James to have factored the benefits available to Miss M through the BSPS2 into 
its analysis and advice so that she was able to make a properly informed decision.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.Miss M was 42 at the time of the advice and it was recorded in the advice paperwork that 
she wanted to retire at 55, although she was happy to continue to work on. The critical yields 
required to match Miss Ms benefits at age 55 were set out in the TVAS report of 13 
November 2017  these were 8.08% if Miss M took a full pension and in excess of 6% if she 
took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension (the actual figure isnt quoted, it was shown on 
a bar chart.) The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 55 was 
quoted as 4.66% per year if Miss M took a full pension. A figure wasnt provided for a lump 
sum and a reduced pension.
But as Ive said above, Miss M remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, the critical yields
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual increases
under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still think they
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
Michael James also produced critical yield figures based on the BSPS normal retirement 
age of 65  6.10% based on a full pension and around 5.1% based on a reduced pension. 
And it was the figure of 6.1% that it quoted in its recommendation letter. But Michael James 
recorded that Miss Ms target retirement age was 55, so I think it shouldve reflected the 
figure of 8.08% as this was the more appropriate comparison for Miss M. 
Id add here too that, given Michaels James ultimate recommendation was that Miss M 
should delay her retirement age to 57 - notwithstanding my view that I dont think Miss Ms 
retirement plans were in anyway considered set in stone as I will explain later on  I find it 
surprising Michael James didnt produce critical yield figures based on a retirement age of 
57. I think this wouldve been more meaningful given this is what Michael James advice 
ultimately was. I think this is further evidence that Michael James analysis wasnt helpful to 
Miss M.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4% per year for 12 years to retirement (age 55). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Miss Ms balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would 
be little point in Miss M giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme 
only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
Here, the lowest critical yield based on a retirement age of 55 was 4.66%, which was based 
on Miss M taking a full pension through the PPF. It was 8.08% if Miss M took benefits at 55 
through the existing BSPS. So, based on taking the same benefits at age 55 through the 
BSPS2, I think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those figures, and likely 
closer to 8.08%. This was significantly higher than the discount rate and marginally above 
the regulators upper projection rate.
So, given this, I think it was clear that Miss M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 at retirement, as a result of investing 
in line with a balanced attitude to risk. In my view, to have come close to achieving the level 
of growth required, would have required Miss M to take a higher level of investment risk than 
I think she indicated she was prepared to take. And even then I think its more likely than not 
Miss M would be worse off financially at retirement if she transferred out.The critical yield required to match the benefits available through the PPF was 4.66%. This 
was higher than the discount rate and although marginally lower than the middle projection 
rate, I think the opportunity to improve on the benefits if the scheme moved to the PPF was 
limited if Miss M transferred out of the BSPS.
I also think Miss Ms capacity for loss was low. At the time of the advice, Miss Ms DB 
scheme accounted for all of her private retirement provision and shed recently used all of 
her accumulated savings and investments to deal with a personal need  shed also had to 
take on additional borrowing. So I dont think Miss M could afford to absorb losses on her 
pension.
I can see that Michael James has said there was no regulatory rule or guidance requirement
to refer to the discount rate. And I accept businesses didnt have to refer to it. But while I
havent based my findings solely on this, I think it is a reasonable additional consideration
when seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of
the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits
likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using
reasonable assumptions. So, businesses, like Michael James, were free to use the discount
rate as this was considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event,
Ive considered this in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which
providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Miss Ms attitude to
risk, which leads me to be believe shed likely be worse off in retirement if she transferred 
out of the DB scheme.
I can also see that Michael James says that the critical yield is of limited relevance here  it 
is a blunt tool - because it assumes Miss M would purchase an annuity on the same basis as 
the benefits provided by the DB scheme and she wasnt likely to do that. But I dont think the 
importance of the critical yield figure should be downplayed here. I still consider it gives a 
good indication of the value of benefits Miss M was considering giving up. Its also the case 
that the regulator required Michael James to provide it and so deems it a necessary and 
important part of the decision-making process. So Michael James needed to
provide an analysis based on the critical yield and I think it is a relevant consideration here. 
I accept Miss M was single at the time and the critical yield figure included the spouses 
pension benefit the DB scheme provided, which wouldnt have been important to her at the 
time. But its possible that Miss M might marry in the future. And crucially I think it is still 
relevant, particularly given Miss Ms circumstances and the fact that I dont think she could
realistically say with any certainty whether she would want to take a fixed regular income at
retirement or not. Miss M wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 12 years or more  so 
its entirely possible that Miss M would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement, 
which she could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme. 
Michael James produced cashflow models at the time which it says shows Miss M wouldve 
been able to meet her needs despite the high critical yields. And Ive considered these. 
Firstly I can Michael James said in the suitability letter that its modelling showed that, to 
match Miss Ms initial pension at 55, a fund of £392,000 (the mid-rate growth by age 55) 
would need to provide returns net of all charges of 3.54%. So based on the charges Michael 
James indicated Miss Ms pension monies would be subject to, this would need an annual 
return of just under 5%. But this appears to be based on Miss M taking the same level of 
income she could take from the DB scheme. As I said above, there seems little point in 
Miss M giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. And given the level of return required, I 
think this would likely be the case.Michael James indicated in the suitability report that the five-year annualised rate of return 
for the recommended fund was 9.13% per year. But as Michael James will know, past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount rates and 
the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather 
than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
Michael Jamess modelling also set out scenarios in which Miss M delayed her retirement to 
age 57 and then took her required income of £20,000 a year (including her state pension) 
rising with inflation. Michael James suitability report reflected the scenario where Miss Ms 
funds wouldnt run out until she was 118 years old assuming average market conditions. But 
I can also see its own analysis showed that in slightly weaker than average market 
conditions, Miss M would run out of money at age 79. And in weak market conditions she 
would run out at age 67. Im not persuaded this demonstrates the financial viability of the 
transfer and that Miss M could meet her future income need despite the high critical yield.
Overall, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Miss Ms benefits were reduced, she 
was unlikely to be able to improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. 
By transferring her pension it was highly likely Miss M would be financially worse off in 
retirement. So based on this alone, I dont think a transfer was in Miss Ms best interests. But 
I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Michael James has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
One of the key reasons Michael James recommended the transfer was to meet Miss Ms 
needs for early retirement at age 55 and not suffer a reduction, with the flexibility to take 
greater amounts of tax-free cash or income in the early years.
But Im not persuaded that Miss M knew with any certainty whether she required flexibility in 
retirement. And in any event, I dont think she needed to transfer her DB scheme benefits to 
achieve flexibility, if thats what she ultimately required.
Miss M was 42 at the time of the advice. And while I accept its possible she might have 
given some thought to her retirement, given it was still many years away, I dont think she 
had anything that could reasonably be described as a set retirement plan. And I think the 
evidence supports this. The advice paperwork said Miss M wanted to retire at 55. But at the 
same time it also said that she was happy to continue to work. In another piece of the 
paperwork it said that Miss M might want to change her career at 55 and work with her 
father. In another section it said Miss M intended to work at her current employer until she 
retired.
But I accept Miss M might have liked the idea of retiring early and before the schemes 
normal retirement age of 65. But Miss M already had this option available to her - she didnt 
have to transfer out to achieve this. Miss M might have had to accept a reduced pension in 
doing so  but I think Michael James couldve done more to explain that this wasnt a 
penalty as Miss M referred to it as, but an actuarial reduction to reflect that Miss M couldnt 
expect to receive the same pension shed be entitled to at 65 ten years earlier because it 
would potentially be paid for longer. I think this might have allayed Miss Ms concerns that 
shed be penalised for retiring early from the DB scheme.
I also accept Miss M couldnt take her DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although she could 
choose to take a cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension, Miss M had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But nothing indicates that Miss M had a likely future need to take a cash lump sum and then 
defer taking her income. I also havent seen anything to indicate that Miss M had a strong 
need to vary her income throughout retirement.
So it strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Miss Ms.
Despite not having an apparent need for flexibility, importantly Miss M was contributing to 
her workplace DC pension scheme, something Im not persuaded Michael James properly 
considered in terms of the role this could play in Miss Ms future income generation. Michael 
James recorded that a total of 20% of Miss Ms salary was being invested here  a 
combination of employer and employee contributions. So with at least 12 years contributions 
ahead  and likely more  without accounting for growth, salary increases (Miss M indicated 
progress could be made with colleagues leaving), or increases in contribution rate, this had 
the potential to be worth close to £90,000 and perhaps more.
The nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Miss M with flexibility  she wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. Miss M couldve taken lump sums as and 
when required and adjusted the income she took from it according to her needs. So, I think if 
Miss M retained her DB pension, this combined with her new workplace pension, wouldve 
likely given her the flexibility to retire early - if thats what she ultimately decided.
So in any event, Miss M didnt need to transfer her DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. But if Miss M did in 
fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which she already had, I think this 
couldve been explored closer to her intended retirement age. Michael James recorded that 
Miss M was in the process of choosing to opt into the BSPS2, so she wouldve retained the 
ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed it was required. I think Michael James 
couldve explained this more clearly to Miss M.
Turning to Miss Ms income need  while I dont think Miss M had any true understanding of 
what retirement income she would need, and I cant see that Michael James carried out any 
detailed analysis / interrogation of her expected income and expenditure in retirement, its 
recorded that she thought £20,000 a year would be sufficient. And based on this, Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new scheme didnt go 
ahead) wouldnt have provided Miss M with at the very least a solid guaranteed income 
foundation upon which her other provision could supplement, to likely meet her overall 
income need.
For example, Michael James analysis showed that at 55, under the existing scheme Miss M 
would be entitled to an annual pension of around £13,800. Because of the reduced 
revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 this figure would be lower, but in my view still close to 
it. Although this alone wouldnt meet Miss Ms income need, I think Miss M couldve used her 
workplace DC pension to supplement things  at least until her state pension became 
payable. Miss Ms DC pension wouldve likely had a not insignificant amount at this stage 
that she could draw on flexibly, as and when needed, to top up her income or take a lump 
sum. Assuming Miss M delayed her retirement plans to age 57 as Michael James suggested 
would be beneficial to her, her DB scheme income wouldve been greater meaning that the 
gap she needed to fill using her DC scheme wouldve likely been smaller. Furthermore, if 
Miss M did continue to work until her normal retirement age, which I dont think was out of 
the question based on the evidence, Miss Ms DB scheme income wouldve likely met her 
income need in full  under the existing scheme Michael James recorded shed be entitled to 
a little under £25,000 a year.Either way, I still think Miss M had a better chance of achieving her future retirement
income needs by opting into the BSPS2 (the benefits under which were guaranteed and
escalated) rather than relying on investment growth in a personal pension to achieve things.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Miss M wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And
while the income Miss M would receive was likely lower than the pension shed be entitled to
under the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower such that it wouldve made a
difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Miss Ms retirement plans
and needs werent formulated and she wouldve had her DC scheme to draw on flexibly until 
her state pension became payable.
So overall, I think Miss M couldve likely met her income needs in retirement through the 
BSPS2 or the PPF and I dont think it was in Miss M best interests for her to transfer her 
pension just to have flexibility, that Im not persuaded she really needed.
Death benefits
Michael James also recommended the transfer to provide the ability for Miss M to pass on 
what remained of her pension fund to her family in the event of her death. Miss M thought 
the DB schemes death benefits were of little value to her because she was single.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Miss M. But whilst I appreciate
death benefits are important to consumers, and Miss M might have thought it was a good 
idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was 
to advise Miss M about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily
designed to provide income in retirement  it is not a legacy planning tool. 
I appreciate that Miss M might not have thought the existing death benefits attached to the 
DB scheme were of benefits given her circumstances at the time. But Miss M might have 
married in the future in which case the spouses pension provided by the DB wouldve been 
useful to her spouse if Miss M predeceased them. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it 
was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a 
large sum left, particularly if Miss M lived a long life and/or investment performance was 
lower than expected. In any event, Michael James should not have encouraged Miss M to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over her security 
in retirement. 
Im mindful here that Miss M already had lump sum death benefits available to her through 
her DC scheme  she also had death-in-service benefit  And I see no reason why Miss M 
couldnt have nominated members of her family as beneficiaries of these if she hadnt 
already done so.
I can see that Michael James provided quotes for a whole of life and a term policy as an 
alternative way of providing lump sum death benefits. And these cost £273 a month and £67 
a month respectively. These were discounted by Miss M because while she wanted to leave 
some benefit to her family, she didnt want to take out a policy or use her disposable income 
to fund it. In my view this gives me cause to question just how much of a priority lump sum 
death benefits were to Miss M - but I dont think Michael James presented this option to 
Miss M in a balanced way. Basing the quote on the transfer value of Miss Ms pension benefits essentially assumed that 
she would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Miss M wanted to leave whatever remained of her pension to her family which would be a lot 
less than this if she lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. 
So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Miss M how much she would ideally like to 
leave to her family, taking into account her existing benefits I described above, and this 
couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which in my view was 
likely to be cheaper to provide. And it is this that I think Michael James ought to have 
ultimately recommended rather than recommending Miss M transfer out of her DB scheme 
to achieve things. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Miss M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
I understand that Miss M, like many of her colleagues, was concerned about her pension. 
Her employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and so 
she was likely worried her pension would end up in the PPF. There were lots of negative 
things circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that Miss M was leaning towards the 
decision to transfer because of the concerns she had about her employer, her negative 
perception of the PPF and her concerns about the BSPS2. But it was Michael James 
obligation to give Miss M an objective picture and recommend what was in her best 
interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Miss M 
through the BSPS2 into account, particularly as she was in the process of choosing to opt 
into it. I think this shouldve alleviated some of Miss Ms concerns about the scheme moving 
to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Michael James 
shouldve reassured Miss M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as 
she thought or been led to believe. Importantly Miss M still had the option of taking early 
retirement through the PPF. Miss M didnt have any firm retirement plans at this stage - but I 
think the income available to Miss M through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, 
which her DC scheme could supplement to meet her overall income need at retirement. 
Crucially she was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although 
the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was 
not subject to any investment risk. Miss M might not have been able to later transfer out of 
the PPF  but given what I said earlier on about her already having a degree of flexibility, I 
dont think there was an apparent need for her to do so.
So I dont think that Miss Ms concerns about her DB scheme was a compelling reason to
recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.Summary
I accept that Miss M was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that her concerns
about her employer and the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control
and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have
sounded like attractive features to Miss M. But Michael James wasnt there to just transact 
what Miss M might have thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand 
what Miss M needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Miss M was suitable. She was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Miss M was very likely to 
obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Miss M didnt have any firm retirement 
plans, so she shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have 
flexibility that Im not persuaded she really needed, and the potential for higher death 
benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with her DB scheme. So, I dont 
think it was in Miss Ms best interests for her to transfer her DB scheme to a personal 
pension at this time when she had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
So, I think Michael James shouldve advised Miss M to opt into the BSPS2.
As I said earlier on, Michael James believes it couldnt advise on the BSPS2 because there 
was no certainty it would come into existence  it wasnt an option at the time. I appreciate 
that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But as Ive already said, I think 
everything pointed to it going ahead, so this ought to have been the position Michael James 
adopted  I think it is fair and reasonable for it to have done so. And while Miss M indicated 
she wanted to retire at 55, as Ive already explained this was more than 10 years away and 
Miss Ms plans couldve changed. So, I don't think that it would've been in her best interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits she would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting 
into the BSPS2, Miss M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to 
her retirement age - if her needs demanded it. The annual indexation of her pension when in 
payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2
Of course, I have to consider whether Miss M would've gone ahead anyway, against Michael 
James advice. Michael James argues this is the case saying Miss was attracted by the 
beneficial characteristics of the personal pension and their alignment with her objectives; she
was attracted by the substantially enhanced CETV applying to the transfer; she had a desire 
to break all ties with her employer and she wanted to avoid the risk of being transferred to 
the PPF.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss M wouldve insisted on
transferring out of the BSPS against Michael James advice. I say this because, while as Ive
already said Miss M was likely motivated to transfer when she approached Michael James, 
on balance, I still think Miss M wouldve listened to and followed its advice if things had 
happened as they should have and Michael James had recommended she not transfer out 
of the scheme. I accept Miss M had some prior investment experience  precisely to what 
degree I cant tell because Miss M had liquidated her existing investments and there was no 
detail recorded about them. But Ive not seen enough to persuade me that Miss M was an 
experienced investor, who possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence to against 
the advice they was given, particularly in complex pension matters. Miss Ms pension 
accounted for all of her private retirement provision at the time  so, if Michael James had 
provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt 
in her best interests, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.Im not persuaded that Miss Ms concerns about her employer or the scheme were so great
that she wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose
expertise she had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her
best interests. Regarding Miss Ms desire to break all ties with her employer - its clear that 
she still worked for the same employer. And she hadnt indicated she intended to find 
alternative employment. Miss M was also a member of the new DC pension scheme via her 
employer. So, Miss M wasnt going to achieve a separation from her employer by 
transferring, as she would remain tied to the employer in other respects.
So if Michael James had explained this (as it ought to have done) and that Miss M could 
likely meet all of her objectives without risking her guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight. So, I dont think Miss M wouldve insisted on transferring out of the 
BSPS if Michael James had given suitable advice that she not do so and that she should opt 
into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think Michael James should compensate Miss M for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Miss M. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Michael James  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the 
emotional and practical impact this had on Miss M. Taking everything into account, including 
that I consider Miss Ms retirement provision is of great importance to her given its 
significance in her overall retirement income provision, I think the unsuitable advice has 
caused her some distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss M, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Miss M would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 
if suitable advice had been given. 
Michael James must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Michael James should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Miss M and our Service 
upon completion of the calculation.
For clarity, Miss M has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Miss Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Michael James should:calculate and offer Miss M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Miss M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Miss M receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Miss M accepts Michael Jamess offer to calculate how much of their redress could 
be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Miss M for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Miss Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Miss M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, 
in line with DISP App 4, Michael James may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Miss Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Michael James should also pay Miss M £300 for the distress and inconvenience the matter 
has caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Michael James to pay 
Miss M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Michael James pays Miss M the balance.
If Miss M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Michael James.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman