DRN-4120300
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In July 2022, Mr Hs account received credits of £869.99, £50, £500, £8 and £200. The funds 
were quickly moved to an account with a third-party payment service provider. Revolut 
subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank which the payments came 
from stating that its customer had said theyd been scammed into making the payments to 
Mr Hs account. 
As a result of the notification, Revolut took the decision to review Mr Hs account. Upon 
concluding its investigation, Revolut took the decision to close Mr Hs account and also 
record a fraud prevention marker.
Mr H complained. Revolut looked at Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr H remained 
dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. He didnt think that Revolut had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Revolut has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that Revolut must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Hs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Revolut also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr H was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payments and knew they were, or might be, illegitimate. This can 
include Mr H allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Hs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Revolut had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Hs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Revolut has done this 
here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Hs 
account in July 2022, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr H was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr H has said that he didnt know that the funds were fraudulent. He says that someone he 
knew for a short period could help him make money through a business opportunity. He was 
told that he simply needed to provide his account details and he never asked any questions 
over how any money would be made. 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. But, in truth, Im satisfied that the available evidence 
shows that Mr H was more likely than not complicit in the fraudulent activity which took 
place. 
I say this because the payments went to an account with a third-party payment service 
provider which Mr H used before the fraudulent funds went into his account. Furthermore, I 
note that despite already having at least three other accounts with other banks, Mr H opened 
this account not too long before the activity in question took place. In my view, this suggests 
that Mr H opened this account because he had concerns over the legitimacy of what he was 
getting involved in and he didnt wish to risk his own funds by using one of his existing 
accounts. 
Finally, Im also mindful that Mr H hasnt provided anything at all to corroborate what hes 
said about him being persuaded to invest in a business opportunity either. And Id expect 
him to have some kind of record in circumstances where he reasonably believed that he was 
entering into a legitimate enterprise. 
Im afraid that all of this means I cant reasonably conclude Mr H was an unwitting participant 
here. Instead, I think that Revolut was reasonably entitled to conclude that Mr H was 
complicit in the fraudulent activity which took place on his account and record a fraud marker 
in the circumstances that it did. So I dont think that Revolut acted unfairly towards Mr H and 
Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope Mr H will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr H might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman