DRN-2771521
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined his application for home 
insurance.
What happened
Mr B wanted to take out a home insurance policy for a property his mother had lived in. 
Shed passed away but Aviva wouldnt offer him a new policy because he had a criminal 
conviction. Mr B said his conviction had no relevance to home insurance. And he feels 
Avivas decision was discriminatory and unwarranted. Mr B was also worried his property 
might now be uninsured.
Aviva said it sympathised with Mr Bs position. But after completing a quote he hadnt met its 
underwriting criteria. Mr B had an unspent conviction and it was unable to offer him cover. 
Mr B was currently in prison so Aviva said it would continue the existing cover until the 
renewal date. But it wouldnt be able to provide cover after that date. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Avivas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at the underwriting criteria and it showed 
Aviva couldnt offer Mr B a policy as he had an unspent conviction. Our investigator felt 
Aviva wouldve treated any other customer in the same way. And she didnt think itd acted 
unfairly in the circumstances or discriminated against Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Hed been acting under 
a lasting power of attorney for his mother when the insurance had been in her name. So he 
felt Aviva had already in effect offered insurance to someone who was in prison.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I would like to offer my condolences to Mr B for his loss. I do appreciate it how difficult 
it must be for him to sort things out in the current circumstances. Ive looked at everything 
Mr B and Aviva have said. But having done so I reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
When searching for insurance cover, customers are entitled to look at a number of different 
businesses before deciding which one suits their needs. And in the same way an insurer is 
entitled to make commercial decisions about who it offers insurance to and the risks it wants 
to insure, depending on its risk appetite.
Each business will have a system of procedures and processes for running that business. 
And the underwriters will have criteria that set out the conditions that must be met before 
cover can be offered. 
This is normally carried out through a series of questions to the prospective customer. And 
the insurer relies on the answers given when deciding whether to offer cover.
But I would expect the business to treat each customer fairly. And Mr B feels he has been 
discriminated against because of his situation. So Ive considered whether Aviva has acted 
differently towards Mr B than it mightve acted towards another customer in the same 
situation.
I understand the property was owned by Mr B, although the insurance policy was in the 
name of his mother, who lived there. And when his mother passed away Mr B asked Aviva 
to continue the insurance in his name.
Home insurance is there to protect the property, and the owner, from damage after an 
insured event. So to be effective the insurance needs to be in the name of the owner. But 
although Mr B owned the property the insurance had been taken out in the name of his 
mother. 
I know Mr B says he was acting on his mothers behalf through a lasting power of attorney. 
And Aviva had effectively already offered him insurance because of that fact. But if Mr B had 
applied for the home insurance in his own name, as owner, hed have been asked have you 
or any person to be insured by this policy ever been convicted of or cautioned for (or 
charged but not yet tried with) any criminal offence other than motoring offences?" And 
Aviva has said it wouldnt have offered the existing policy if itd been aware of Mr Bs 
circumstances. 
I realise this must be very frustrating for Mr B. But based on what Ive seen I cant really say 
Aviva has acted unfairly or treated Mr B any differently than it wouldve done for a different 
customer in the same circumstances.
The underwriters have confirmed it is unable to offer cover to any potential customer with 
unspent convictions. And its not the role of this service to look at Avivas business practises. 
Thats the role of its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. Our role is to see if Aviva has 
made any mistakes. And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
Although Aviva couldve cancelled the existing cover under the terms of the policy once it 
became aware of Mr Bs circumstances and ownership of the property, its agreed to 
continue the existing cover until its expiry date. And I can see Aviva has provided details of 
other specialist organisations who might be able to provide insurance for Mr B. I think thats 
a reasonable response in the circumstances.
But Aviva has confirmed it wouldnt offer insurance to any customer with unspent 
convictions. And its explained the reasons to Mr B. So I cant say it has treated Mr B unfairly 
or discriminated against him. Its treated him the same as it would any customer in the same 
situation. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But I hope this shows Ive fully 
investigated the complaint and the reasons behind my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman