DRN-3406708
The complaint
Ms N complains about a loan from 1Plus1 Loans Limited, (1Plus1), which she says was 
unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service on Ms Ns behalf by a claims 
management company. But for ease I have referred below to all actions being taken by      
Ms N.
What happened
1Plus1 provided Ms N with a loan of £4,000 in April 2016. The loan was secured by a 
guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if Ms N failed to make her repayments. 
The interest rate was 23%, (45.4% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 36 monthly 
repayments of £187.78. Ms N said that the loan was to be used for debt consolidation and 
car repairs . If Ms N made each payment when it was due, shed pay £6,760.08 in total. The 
loan was repaid in May 2019.
Ms N said that 1Plus1 didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting credit or
assess signs of her over-indebtedness. The unaffordable high cost loan worsened a financial 
situation which was already poor. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She thought 
1Plus1 ignored evidence which strongly indicated that Ms N was in financial difficulties. So, it 
shouldnt have granted the loan.
.
1Plus1 disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that if Ms N had used the loan as
she confirmed she would (partly for debt consolidation), then this would have reduced her 
outstanding higher rate credit. It could therefore assume that Ms Ns defaulted credit and 
payment plans would be settled. The affordability checks it performed did show that Ms N 
had enough disposable income to repay its loan.
1Plus1 also noted that the investigator had suggested Ms N was struggling financially, so 
her circumstances fell outside the average portfolio it used to rely on her living expenses. 
1Plus1 said there was no evidence to suggest that Ms N was spending more than the 
average consumer for non-essential expenditure. It also queried whether the investigator 
had made more in-depth checks to support her conclusions.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms N
and to 1Plus1 on 1 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id said I wasnt intending to uphold Ms Ns complaint. Id appreciated this would be very 
disappointing for Ms N and I hoped my explanation made it clear why I had come to this 
conclusion.
Id noted that when 1Plus1 lent to Ms N, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged 1Plus1 to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that 1Plus1 needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or 
not a borrower could afford to meet her loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so 1Plus1 had to think about whether Ms N 
could sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Ms N undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1Plus1 to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on 
Ms N.
 
And as in this case, where Ms N had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments in the 
event that she couldnt, 1Plus1 was still obliged to assess whether in the first instance Ms N 
could meet her repayments without undue difficulty.
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out 
more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Ms Ns case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Ns loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did 1Plus1 make a fair lending decision? Did 1Plus1 complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Ns loan 
application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Id noted that 1Plus1 spoke to Ms N on the phone and gathered some information from her 
about her income and expenses before it agreed the loan. Id listened to a recording of the 
call. Ms N also provided her payslips for four weeks and excerpts from her bank statement to 
show the benefits payments shed received. 1Plus1 had also carried out a credit check. 
Ms N told 1Plus1 that she lived with her partner and had two dependents. She was a tenant 
and she paid the rent and all the household bills. She told 1Plus1 she had more than enough 
to pay the loan each month.
Id noted that Ms N had told 1Plus1 that her basic net weekly income was £250. She also 
earned commission, but 1Plus1 said that it would use her basic income. Id noted that each 
of the four payslips Ms N supplied included varying commission amounts, but the most 
recent of her payslips included a sales incentive of £8 in addition to basic pay. This payslip 
appeared to show a basic net weekly income of £250. Id calculated the monthly equivalent 
to be around £1,083. Id taken the average of the weekly tax credit amounts Ms N had 
received and calculated the monthly equivalent to be around £790. Ms N had also received a 
monthly equivalent of £149 child benefit. Id calculated her total monthly income to be around 
£2,022, although 1Plus1s affordability form showed a lower total income of £1,866.
Ms N had provided 1Plus1 with information about the amount of her rent (a monthly 
equivalent of around £498), council tax (I thought Ms N said this was £180 although 1Plus1 
showed this as £108), utilities, food and household bills, tv licence, phone/broadband, 
clothes, gym and car costs.  I could see that 1Plus1s list of Ms Ns expenses totalled 
£1,206. I totalled them to be a monthly amount of around £1,330. 
I couldnt see that 1Plus1 had asked for evidence of Ms Ns living costs. Id noted that 
1Plus1 had said that the information provided by Ms N matched or exceeded data from the 
Office for National Statistics (ONS). I didnt think it was reasonable for 1Plus1 to rely on 
statistical information about Ms Ns living costs. ONS data is based on the finances and 
expenditure of the average consumer. But 1Plus1 knew when it lent to Ms N, that it was 
providing a loan to someone whose credit file suggested they fell outside this average 
portfolio. Bearing all this in mind, I thought it would have been proportionate for 1Plus1 to 
have taken steps to verify Ms Ns actual expenditure instead of choosing to rely on a 
potentially inaccurate comparison with ONS data. 
1Plus1 said that Ms N would have a surplus income of around £397 which appeared to leave 
enough disposable income for the loan to be repaid. My calculations gave a similar amount. 
Id noted that 1Plus1 had included credit commitments of £63 and an emergency buffer of 
£200 in calculating the disposable income. So, the lender said that its loan repayment of 
£187.78 was affordable. But 1Plus1 was required to establish whether Ms N could 
sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The lender also provided this Service with a summary of Ms Ns credit commitments from its 
credit checks. The summary didnt show either the dates the credit was taken out, the 
original loan amounts or the credit limits for the mail order accounts. 
1Plus1s summary of Ms Ns credit commitments showed that Ms N had a high cost loan and 
two payday loans. These three loans appeared to have been taken out around eight months 
prior to the loan application with a total balance outstanding of around £1,224. I couldnt see 
that any loans had been taken out since. The summary showed that the repayments on 
these loans were being made satisfactorily. Ms N told 1Plus1 that she would be repaying these accounts with the loan. I could see that its loan repayment amount of around £188 
was less than the total of the monthly repayments for these three loans of £231.
The summary also showed that three accounts were defaulted in the nine months prior to 
the loan, although Ms N said that one of these related to arrears in 2013. The most recent 
default was in January 2016 with a default balance of £365. Ms N told 1Plus1 that she would 
prefer to pay some of the defaults off with the loan. I appreciated that having some historic 
debt wasnt automatically a barrier to taking on further credit. But I thought 1Plus1 ought to 
have taken further steps to check that Ms N would be able to meet its repayments 
sustainably, given she wasnt potentially able to clear her existing debts without borrowing 
again.
 
Whilst Ms N had told 1Plus1 that she would be using the loan proceeds to consolidate some 
of her debts, I couldnt see from the information received from 1Plus1 that it had made this a 
condition of the loan. So, it couldnt be sure that the loans would be paid off. I could also see 
that Ms N was increasing her total indebtedness by taking out 1Plus1s loan. Whilst the loan 
proceeds were being used to repay some of Ms Ns debt, she needed £6,760.08 to repay 
1Plus1s loan. So, it appeared that her total indebtedness was being increased as well as 
the time shed be indebted for. The term of 1Plus1s loan was likely much longer than the 
loan terms for the loans Ms N said she intended to clear. So, any short-term improvement in 
the amount of Ms Ns credit commitments was significantly off-set by Ms N having to pay 
1Plus1s high cost loan for 36 months.
Ms N also had a mail order account with a balance of £824 which appeared to be four 
payments in arrears and showed a monthly payment of £1. I  thought this account ought to 
have concerned 1Plus1, but it wasnt clear to me if 1Plus1 had queried this account with    
Ms N during the call. Ms N also had a current account with no overdraft and a credit card 
with no spending on it.
 
It didnt appear from the phone call that 1Plus1 had any concerns about the high cost loan 
and two payday loans Ms N had taken out and I didnt hear it ask her for the reason for the 
loans. Ms N also said on the call that she was making small repayments to some of the other 
accounts, but the repayment arrangements werent shown on the credit checks. Ms N had 
also provided some reasons for the defaults such as letters being sent to an old address and 
a communications account being in dispute as shed not held an account with the provider. 
Simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react appropriately to 
the information that any checks showed. Altogether I thought the three relatively recent 
defaults and the mail order account for £824 which was four months in arrears should have 
put the lender on notice that Ms Ns finances might be under pressure. And I thought they 
might also have reasonably caused doubt on the accuracy of the expenditure information  
Ms N had provided. 
Id also noted that although Ms N said she didnt have an overdraft, the bank statement 
extracts shed supplied to 1Plus1 to show her benefit payments showed her current account 
to be £16.87 overdrawn. I thought this also ought to have concerned 1Plus1 and again cast 
doubt on the disposable income it had calculated.
Looking at everything in the round, I wasnt satisfied that 1Plus1s checks went far enough. I 
thought 1Plus1 should reasonably have taken steps to gain a more thorough understanding 
of Ms Ns financial position in order to satisfy itself that she could repay the loan sustainably. 
Ms N was entering into a relatively long and expensive loan agreement. The loan was 
running for 36 months and Ms N was committing to repay £6,760.08 over that period. The 
loan was only partly being used for debt consolidation, so her overall debt was being 
increased. Given the length of time Ms N was committing to repay the credit and what 1Plus1 would have likely seen on its credit checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient for 
1Plus1 to get a clear picture of Ms Ns finances at the time. 
1Plus1 was required to establish whether Ms N could make her loan repayments without 
being caused undue difficulty or adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the 
loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It 
could have done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Ms N, asking for 
copies of  bills and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her for more information 
about her existing credit commitments. I couldnt see that 1Plus1 took steps to do this. So 
overall, I didnt think the checks 1Plus1 carried out on this occasion were reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But that in itself didn't mean that Ms Ns complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have likely shown 
1Plus1 that Ms N couldn't sustainably afford the loan. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did 1Plus1 make a fair 
lending decision? 
Id asked the investigator to ask Ms N for copies of her bank statements, so we could see 
what better checks would have shown 1Plus1. 
I wasnt suggesting that this was the exact check that 1Plus1 should have carried out. 
Looking at Ms Ns bank statements was one way of achieving that although there were other 
ways that level of detail could be established. But I thought that by looking at Ms Ns bank 
statements I would be able to get a good idea of what better checks might have shown. 
Despite our request, Ms N hadnt provided us with copies of her bank statements from 
around the time of the loan . So, I hadnt been able to get a picture of what her financial 
situation was like at the relevant time. That meant I couldnt say that, if 1Plus1 had 
completed further checks, it wouldve found that Ms N couldnt afford to repay the loan. So, 
based on the information Id seen, I wasnt able to conclude that 1Plus1 shouldnt have 
agreed to provide the loan to Ms N. Id said that if Ms N was able to provide us with the 
relevant copies of her bank statements, I would of course reconsider my decision. But, 
subject to any further representations by Ms N or 1Plus1, I didnt intend to uphold Ms Ns 
complaint about the loan.
Ms N hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
1Plus1 responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Given that Ms N and 1Plus1 have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman