DRN-4169526
The complaint
Mr L complains through a representative that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading
as MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) provided him with loans without carrying out the proper
checks. Had it done so, MoneyBoat wouldve realised the loans werent affordable.
What happened
Mr L was advanced three loans, a summary of his borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateinstalments instalment 
amount
1 £400.00 19/06/2020 25/09/2020 4 £136.38
2 £1,000.00 25/09/2020 05/10/2020 6 £311.34
3 £1,000.00 18/11/2020 01/02/2021 6 £269.15
Following Mr Ls representatives complaint, MoneyBoat wrote and explained it had carried
out affordability checks which showed Mr L could afford the loan repayments. Unhappy, with
this outcome, Mr Ls representative then referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he thought MoneyBoat had made a reasonable
decision to provide loan 1. But he also thought MoneyBoat ought not to have provided loans
2 and 3. He said the credit checks showed at loan 2 a number of active payday loans. 
Taking account of those payments, along with what Mr L was due to pay MoneyBoat, the
adjudicator said this represented a significant portion of Mr Ls declared income. So, he
upheld loans 2 and 3.
MoneyBoat didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It said one payday loan which 
was identified was repaid before payments for loan 2 were made. And while the
payment on the other outstanding payday loan was said to be £330 per month, Mr L wasnt
making those payments  as can be seen from the transactional history.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to an ombudsman and I proceed 
to issue a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ls complaint. 
Both Mr Ls representative and MoneyBoat were asked to provide anything further for 
consideration as soon as possible, but in any event, no later than 2 June 2023.
Neither MoneyBoat nor Mr L (or his representative) responded to or provided any more 
information for consideration. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller text and italics and forms part of this 
final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Ls income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Mr Ls complaint.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans 
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was
able to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Neither MoneyBoat nor Mr Ls representative appear to disagree with the findings the
adjudicator reached about loan 1. I therefore, no longer think this loan is in dispute and I say
no more about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether MoneyBoat carried out
proportionate checks before it granted loans 2 and 3.
Loan 2
MoneyBoat has shown that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr L for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Ls income has been recorded as being £2,050 per
month.
Mr L also declared his monthly outgoings were £1,000  which covered costs such as
rent, food, credit commitments, and other. However, having carried out further checks
including bringing Mr L in line with items listed on the Common Financial Statement and a
credit search which I comment on below - MoneyBoat increased Mr Ls monthly expenditure
by a further £517.After this adjustment it left Mr L with disposable monthly income of £533. This was more
than sufficient for MoneyBoat to believe Mr L could afford the largest monthly repayment of
around £311. The loan therefore, looked affordable.
Before this loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency. I want to add that although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search there
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
MoneyBoat couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received.
MoneyBoat was also entitled to rely on the information it was given. So, Ive taken a look at
the results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either
prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks or possibly have declined Mr Ls
application.
I can see that at the time this loan was advanced, there were two payday loans and one
finance house loan active. However, one of the payday loans was repaid before any
payments for this loan was made  although I accept MoneyBoat may not have known that
at the time, but I think it was reasonable to believe  given the other data in the credit file
that the loan would be repaid. The other payday loan was Mr Ls first loan from MoneyBoat 
and we know that was closed the same day this loan was taken.
In terms of the Finance House loan which was opened in 2019, while the credit file
suggested a payment of £330 was required each month. Mr L was actually paying around
£50 per month and the balance within the transactional history fluctuated  but importantly,
there was no adverse credit file information being recorded about the payments.
I disagree, with the adjudicator that MoneyBoat wouldve been concerned about the
payments to other loan providers and that a significant portion of his income was needed to repay his 
loans. Indeed, when loan 2 was advanced, he had the cost of this loan as well as another £50 
towards the 2019 Finance House loan. Given the circumstances, this is clearly, not enough to say that
the loan was unaffordable or unsustainable.
I accept there was some adverse information reported, for example a discharged bankruptcy
in 2018 and there had been several defaults recorded, but these were mainly recorded in
2017. So, I do think, these were all too far removed from Mr Ls loan start date that
MoneyBoat chose not to be concerned by them. And there was, at various points, a history
of Mr L taking out and repaying payday loans. However, at the time the loan was approved,
the only other loans were the ones Ive mentioned above.
Overall, for this loan, in my view, the checks MoneyBoat carried out were proportionate and
showed it that Mr L would be able to afford his loan repayments. I am therefore intending not
upholding Mr Ls complaint about this loan.
Loan 3
Loan 2, was repaid much more quickly than MoneyBoat had expected, indeed, as a result of
Mr L repaying after 10 day he was only charged £70 interest. Mr L then didnt return for
further borrowing for around six weeks, and when he did, he was advanced the same
amount of money as he was for loan 2. Except, this time, his monthly repayments were
lower. Ive kept this in mind when thinking about the checks MoneyBoat carried out. But
loans 1 and 2 had been repaid in a satisfactory manner and that wouldnt have given
MoneyBoat any cause for concern.
MoneyBoat carried out the same type of checks for this loan as it had done so for the
previous one. So, it asked Mr L for his income, and he declared it to be £2,085 per month. It
also asked about his expenditure, which was declared as being £1,200 per month. As before, 
following its further checks, MoneyBoat increased Mr Ls monthly expenditure by a further £467.Therefore, he was left with £418 per month in disposable income in which to be able to
afford his loan repayments.
A credit search was also again carried out and the results were much the same as there
were when loan 2 was approved.
Mr Ls total outstanding debt was significantly greater than it was when loan 2 was advanced
but this seems to have been as a result of a default  which was recorded in October 2017
for £8,035 now being reported. However, this wasnt new lending that Mr L had taken since
loan 2.
The credit file showed much the same (apart from the above new account) as was visible
when loan 2 was approved. Which means while there was historic adverse data such as
defaults and a history of taking out payday loans but at this time, given what MoneyBoat
already knew I wouldnt say the checks needed to go further than they did.
Which means it was entitled to rely on the information Mr L had provided which showed the
loan was affordable for him.
Having taken account of everything that MoneyBoat was told and provided with, I still think,
even with the increase in borrowing that it was still just about reasonable for it to rely on the
information Mr L had provided. It therefore follows that Im going to conclude the checks
were proportionate and these checks showed MoneyBoat the loan was affordable.
I am therefore also not upholding Mr Ls complaint about this loan as well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything new for my consideration, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings that I made in the provisional decision. I still think, MoneyBoat carried out 
proportionate checks which showed it that Mr L was likely to be able to afford the 
repayments he was committed to making. 
I therefore do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman