DRN-4216182
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has dealt with his 
claim.
What happened
Mr M has a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Aviva. He had an accident and 
needed dental surgery, which was covered. The surgeon also said Mr M might need to see 
his dentist to replace a filling if the adjacent tooth was damaged during surgery. But Aviva 
explained that this wouldnt be covered.
Mr M complained but Aviva said routine dental treatment was excluded under the terms of 
the policy.
Unhappy, Mr M referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined the 
claim as there was a clear exclusion in the policy.
Mr M disagreed and said the further recommended treatment was prescribed by his surgeon 
and formed part of his treatment plan. And it wasnt merely routine dental treatment.
So the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms exclude the following:
Any dental treatment not involving an oral surgical procedure on the teeth performed in 
a hospital, including
treatment carried out by a dentist or dental surgeon
The policy terms and conditions confirm routine dental treatment isnt covered. This is 
defined in the policy as follows:
Dental treatment carried out by a dental practitioner in a dental surgery including 
examinations, tooth cleaning, white fillings (where appropriate), crowns, fixed bridges 
extractions and surgery. We do not pay for removable bridges or contract schemes 
(for example monthly dental plans).
Mr M says Aviva should cover the filling and a routine check-up following surgery. 
Ive considered the letter written by the surgeon which confirms an extraction had been 
arranged. The surgeon also said: There is a risk of fracture of the filling of the adjacent tooth 
during the procedure. If that happens, you will need to contact your dentist to arrange for a 
replacement of the filling.
Im satisfied that the policy exclusions are clear. Mr M says a check-up was recommended 
but routine dental treatment is clearly excluded under the terms of the policy.
In addition, his surgeon confirmed that he would need to see his dentist if the adjacent tooth 
was affected. This wasnt a part of the treatment plan but there was a possibility that Mr M 
would need to see his dentist. Mr M says he would only need to see the dentist as a result of 
the extraction procedure and so it should be covered. 
Ive carefully considered the argument Mr M has made. But I am satisfied that the 
replacement filling or any check-ups by his dentist clearly fall within the exclusion outlined 
above. If a replacement filling was required, it wouldnt be in hospital and Mr M would need 
to see his dentist. And so this falls within the exclusion and under the definition of routine 
dental treatment in the policy, which isnt covered.
Although Mr M doesnt agree that the replacement filling or examination is routine dental 
treatment (due to the reasons for needing the replacement filling), as there is a specific 
definition of this in the policy, thats the definition that has been applied, even if it isnt what 
he would ordinarily describe as routine dental treatment. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman