DRN-3630306
The complaint
Miss M complains that MBNA Limited were unsupportive of her circumstances when she 
was stuck in a country outside the UK.
What happened
Miss M held a credit card account with MBNA.
In early 2020, Miss M was visiting a country outside of the UK. Due to circumstances outside 
of her control, Miss M was unable to return to the UK and remained stuck in that country 
between March 2020 and July 2021. 
Miss M has explained that while away, she had no income, no access to the internet and 
didnt have her credit card with her. Also, during the course of her visit, her mobile phone 
was broken, and she suffered a personal injury that required medical treatment. Her 
residence was also burgled.
During this period, Miss M says she contacted MBNA on two occasions asking them to help 
her. She says MBNA refused to help because she didnt have her credit card with her. They 
also wouldnt allow her to make a payment to her account. 
Miss M was paying her MBNA credit card bill by regular direct debit. Unfortunately, her direct 
debit payment was returned unpaid by her bank and the direct debit instruction was 
cancelled. And because she didnt have internet access or a working mobile phone, she was 
unable to make regular payments. 
Miss M says MBNA eventually helped her to gain access to her account over the internet. 
This enabled her to make a payment. But she says she had medical bills to pay due to her 
injury and was struggling to pay them. Miss M thought MBNA did little to help her. MBNA 
eventually cancelled Miss Ms credit card account. 
Unhappy with her experience, Miss M complained to MBNA once shed returned to the UK. 
She said she wanted her credit card returning and was concerned about the amount of 
interest and charges theyd applied to her account. She didnt feel this was fair and wanted 
to know whether thered been a better option available to help keep the costs down.
MBNA responded to Miss Ms complaint in a letter in January 2022. MBNA didnt agree 
theyd treated Miss M unfairly or unreasonably. They said Miss M hadnt made them aware 
she was experiencing any financial difficulty or that she had no income and medical bills to 
pay. So, they were unable to provide appropriate support. MBNA said interest and charges 
were applied in line with the terms and conditions that applied to her account.
Unhappy with MBNAs response, Miss M asked this service to look into her complaint. 
Having done so, our investigator didnt think MBNA had done anything wrong, so didnt 
suggest they should do anything more.
Miss M didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, as an agreement couldnt be 
reached, her complaint has been passed to me to consider further and reach a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has asked this service to consider a number of complaints which relate to the period 
she was stranded outside of the UK. For clarity, my decision is based only on Miss Ms 
experience and concerns about MBNA. This decision does not relate to any other business, 
whether indirectly linked to MBNA or not.
Its quite clear to me that the personal circumstances Miss M experienced while outside of 
the UK were very unfortunate. I can appreciate these would have been a great cause of 
worry and concern for her. Particularly as Miss M says she had no regular income and had 
also incurred medical costs.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to consider relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) sets 
down the rules and guidelines that apply where a consumer is experiencing financial 
difficulties. These rules and guidelines should be applied where a business becomes aware 
that its customer is in financial difficulty.
Ive first considered whether MBNA knew, or reasonably shouldve known, that Miss M was 
struggling financially. MBNA have provided details of the calls Miss M made to them during 
her time outside of the UK. Their records show they received two calls in October 2020 and 
May 2021.
Miss M was making payments to her MBNA credit card account by direct debit each month. 
However, her credit card statements show that her direct debit in October 2020 was returned 
unpaid by her bank. This meant her account was now in arrears. 
Miss M called MBNA in October 2020 for help regaining access to her internet banking. It 
seems Miss Ms password access had been suspended previously. Its unclear why that was 
but there could have been previous failed access attempts which led to this. MBNA 
successfully reactivated her access and Miss M used this to make a payment to her MBNA 
account. MBNA have confirmed that at no point during this call did Miss M mention bills, 
medical or otherwise, she needed to pay. There was also no mention of financial difficulties 
so no reason for the rules and guidance under CONC to be applied here. It appears MBNA 
did help Miss M with her stated requirements and there was no indication that further support 
was required.
In November 2020, MBNA decided to reduce the limit on Miss Ms credit card account from 
£5,600 to £3,200. There are many reasons why this might happen. MBNA may regularly 
review Miss Ms credit needs considering any other credit commitments and their own 
lending policies. It couldve been prompted by the unpaid direct debit payment in October 
2020. Where this happens, I would expect MBNA to consider any impact a limit reduction 
may have on a Miss Ms ability to manage her finances. But at this stage, Miss M still hadnt 
made them aware of any financial problems. Miss Ms monthly payments continued to be 
received as normal by direct debit thereafter.
In March, April and May 2021, Miss Ms payment direct debits were again returned unpaid 
by her bank. So, MBNA decided to withdraw Miss Ms account. I can understand why they 
might do this to prompt Miss M to contact them and discuss her financial situation. 
Miss M called MBNA again in May 2021 as she was unable to log in to her internet banking 
with them. MBNA have explained this was due to her account being withdrawn. And this also 
meant MBNA couldnt then reactivate her internet banking. During the call, Miss M made a 
payment of £2,000 to reduce the balance owed and clear any arrears. MBNA have 
confirmed that at no point did Miss M make any mention of bills she needed to pay or that 
she was experiencing financial problems. Theyve also confirmed Miss M maintained her monthly payments thereafter until the amount owed was fully repaid in October 2021. Miss 
Ms account statements confirm this.
Taking all of this into consideration, I cant find anything to suggest MBNA were made aware 
Miss M had any financial problems or that she asked them to provide any form of financial 
support or help. So, while I realise Miss M will be disappointed, I cant reasonably say that 
MBNA did anything wrong here. They could only respond to the information given to them. 
And that appears to be what they did here.
Miss M also expressed concern about the interest and charges applied to her credit card 
account. In her complaint to MBNA, she wanted to know whether thered been alternative 
and cheaper options for her. I cant find anything to suggest she asked MBNA about this 
previously. And given MBNA werent aware of any financial problems, they had no cause to 
review this or provide any concession. 
MBNAs interest and charges appear to have been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of Miss Ms account. While I accept they withdrew her account, their reasons for 
this appear reasonable. And as Miss M had borrowed money from MBNA, I also think they 
were entitled to charge interest on what she owed until full repayment. The Interest wasnt a 
charge for using the credit card but rather on the amount she borrowed and owed.
Miss Ms problems all seem to stem from the period she was stuck in another country and 
didnt have access to internet banking. While the circumstances were unfortunate, they 
hadnt resulted from anything MBNA did wrong. So, I cant reasonably hold them responsible 
for that. And Miss M has since repaid what she owed without any other signs of difficulty.
Miss M asked MBNA to reinstate her account. In the same way that Miss M is free to choose 
which credit card provider she wants to use; MBNA are free to choose which customers they 
want to provide accounts to. While I appreciate Miss M may not agree, I dont think MBNA 
are obliged to reopen her account. And this service is not able to instruct them to.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman