DRN-1902214
 
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy she was given incorrect advice by Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Halifax) after completing a balance transfer.
What happened
Ms L wanted to transfer a balance from a third-party credit card to her Halifax credit card 
so she could close the third-party account.
When Ms L tried to complete the transfer, it didn't appear to go through. Ms L says 
Halifax told her she should attempt it again, so she did. But both transfers went through 
putting the third-party account into credit.
Ms L called Halifax. They said they had already reversed the transaction. They also said 
that as they had given Ms L incorrect advice to try the transfer again, the credit balance with 
the third-party was hers to keep.
Ms L says she then spent the credit on the third-party account. But as Halifax had 
reversed the balance transfer, it left the third-party account in debit.
A complaint was made to Halifax by Ms L. They acknowledged she had been given 
incorrect advice that the credit balance was hers to keep initially, but they didn't agree she 
could keep the £382. Instead they offered £120 compensation.
As Ms L didn't agree with Halifax, she approached this service.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He acknowledged that Halifax had 
given incorrect advice to Ms L that the credit balance was hers to keep, but he thought 
the compensation of £120 they had already offered was reasonable.
Ms L didn't agree with the investigator and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view of the complaint, I decided to issue a 
provisional decision before I make my final decision. This allowed both parties to comment 
on my thinking before I make my final decision  which is the Financial Ombudsman 
Services last word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ms L had an outstanding balance on a credit card with a third party. She initially 
requested a balance transfer of £402.74 from this to her Halifax credit card. But when 
this didn't go through, Ms L says she contacted Halifax who told her to try it again.
Despite asking for call recordings, aside from a later call Ms L submitted to this 
service, Halifax hasn't provided these. But the internal file notes from Halifaxs own 
complaint investigation seem to agree with this.
Ms L then completed a further balance transfer of £382 and both ultimately went 
through. This put the third-party account £382 in credit.
Ive listened to the call recording when Ms L contacted Halifax after both balance 
transfers had gone through. Ms L said that as both had gone through, it had put the 
third-party account into credit, but her Halifax account showed it had already been 
reversed. She asked if Halifax would recall this money still from the third party, but 
they said this had already been done.
Ms L was concerned that the credit was still showing on the third-party account. 
Halifaxs representative spoke to a colleague internally and explained they could see 
the reversal was requested on the same day and asked how long it would take to 
reflect on the account. The internal colleague confirmed the reversal had already 
taken place.
The agent then explained to Ms L that as they had given incorrect advice to try the 
original transfer again, which had resulted in both going through, the funds wouldn't be 
further claimed back and the credit on the third-party account was Ms Ls to keep.
Ms L said that because she was told the funds on the third-party account were hers to 
keep, she then spent this, including booking a holiday. I asked our investigator to 
obtain some further information surrounding when the holiday was booked. Ms L 
provided copies of emails and invoices following the booking. The holiday wasn't 
booked until 2 April 2019, which is around two months after the balance transfers were 
completed and her call to Halifax.
From the information provided, Ms L says the third party didn't tell her until later that 
the funds had been recalled. But Ms L had no reason to doubt that the funds on the 
account were hers when she spent them as Halifax had already told her this. And she 
only booked the holiday on this basis.
It does seem from Halifaxs internal notes that what actually happened was a 
temporary credit was placed on her Halifax account rather than it actually being 
recalled initially. And this may be why the amount was showing on both accounts. 
Halifaxs notes say:
Acts Svs adv we have credited the account to assist due to error, but the recall may 
not have actually been done, plus third-party have not responded.
And:
temp credit was applied on the Halifax CC to third-party and she believed this 
money was hers to spend then it was later recalled
But Halifax didn't make Ms L aware that it was a temporary credit and that it may be 
later recalled. In fact they did the opposite. Halifax told her the funds were hers to 
keep as the recall had already been completed. And even when Halifax did receive the funds back from the third-party account, they didn't then contact Ms L to advise of this 
or the error in the advice given at that time.
If Ms L hadn't done anything differently because of the incorrect advice given, then the 
payment of £120 Halifax offered might be reasonable. But she did do something 
differently solely on that advice, she booked a holiday she otherwise wouldn't have 
booked. And I accept it was reasonable for her to act in reliance on what Halifax said. 
So Halifax should compensate her for the additional expenditure.
But the amount of the holiday is less than the balance transfer of £382 that was 
recalled. The invoice Ms L has provided is for £215. So this is the amount Halifax 
should pay Ms L. And this should be in addition to the £120 compensation Halifax has 
already offered for Ms Ls distress on discovering the incorrect advice.
Ms L says she also used some of the credit balance to pay off the remainder of a 
holiday she already had booked. But she didn't book this on the basis of the incorrect 
advice, and would always have needed to pay this regardless. So Im not intending to 
ask Halifax to compensate Ms L for this expenditure.
On that basis, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Halifax to pay 
Ms L £215, in addition to the £120 compensation theyd already offered her.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ms L responded and accepted my provisional decision.
Halifax responded but they didnt agree. They reiterated the background of what happened, 
that Ms L booked a holiday on the basis of the incorrect advice they had given. But Halifax 
said they dont think its fair that Ms L should benefit fully from that incorrect advice. 
Instead Halifax said they are prepared to offer £130. This added to the £120 compensation 
already offered takes the total to £250, which Halifax believes is fair in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And Ive thought about the conclusions I 
came to in my provisional decision.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.
Halifax hasnt provided any new information which would lead me to depart from my 
provisional findings. As I said in these, if Ms L hadnt done anything different because of the 
incorrect advice, then the £120 compensation already offered might have been reasonable.
But as Halifax agrees with in their response to the provisional decision, Ms L did do 
something different. She booked a holiday she otherwise wouldnt have. And therefore 
incurred a cost she also otherwise wouldnt have. And this is because of the incorrect advice 
Halifax gave her.
So my view remains the same. That Halifax should reimburse Ms L £215 which is the cost of 
the holiday she otherwise wouldnt have booked, but for incorrectly being told the funds were 
hers to spend.Separate to the compensation already paid, if I was to say that Halifax should only pay the 
additional £130 they mentioned in the response to the provisional decision, rather than £215, 
then this wouldnt cover the costs Ms L incurred because of Halifaxs incorrect advice. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined in my provisional decision and above, I uphold this complaint in 
part.
In addition to the £120 compensation already paid, Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) 
should pay Ms L a further £215 to reimburse the cost of the holiday she booked.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Callum Milne
Ombudsman