DRN-3749726
The complaint
Mr E complains The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly declined his claim under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. 
Any reference to NFU includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr E took out a LEI insurance policy which is underwritten by 
NFU.
In April 2022, Mr E reported a claim to NFU to defend criminal proceedings which 
had been brought against him.
NFU couldnt confirm whether cover would be provided on the information it had and 
so, it referred the complaint to a Solicitor for advice.
The Solicitor advised the case didnt fall within the LEI policys scope of cover as the 
offence wasnt in relation to the use of or driving of a motorised vehicle, and notably, 
there wasnt a charge under the Road Traffic Act. 
In addition, NFU said the date of the alleged offence predated the start of the LEI 
policy, and so, wouldnt be covered. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr E brought a complaint to this Service. He said the 
policy didnt specifically refer to a motoring offence and he felt NFUs Solicitors had 
included this requirement unfairly. 
An investigator considered it and said she was satisfied NFU had declined the claim 
fairly as the charge was for a breach of the peace and the alleged offence 
happened before the policy started.  
Mr E remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. But first, I must make it 
clear that I wont be commenting on the legal merits of Mr Es case. I will instead be deciding 
whether NFU has treated Mr E fairly in declining his claim. NFU has said cover wont be 
provided because the event for which Mr E is seeking cover occurred before the policy 
started. 
The policy states that the date of occurrence of the insured event must be in the period of 
cover and that for criminal cases the date of occurrence is when the insurer person began, 
or is alleged to have begun, to break the law. 
Ive seen the charge sheet which says the alleged offence occurred on 12 July 2021. Mr Es 
policy started a on 24 September 2021  so, Im satisfied the event predated the policy and 
that it was fair for NFU to decline cover. 
Given Ive said NFU has fairly declined the claim on the basis the event happened before Mr 
E had cover in place, its not necessary for me to consider whether the alleged offence 
should be covered in light of the remaining terms of the policy as this wouldnt change 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman