DRN-3885675
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent to him irresponsibly 
when it approved his credit card and increased the credit limit.
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit card with Barclaycard in January 2017. Barclaycard approved the 
application and gave Mr R a credit card with an initial limit of £1200. In August 2017 the 
credit limit was increased to £1600.
Mr R complained that Barclays had lent irresponsibly. Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It 
said it had completed reasonable and proportionate checks but that it hadnt found anything 
to suggest that Mr R wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the credit.
Mr R wasnt happy with Barclays response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Barclays had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that there were no signs that the credit might not 
be affordable for Mr R.
Mr R didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account opening
Weve set out our approach to irresponsible and unaffordable lending, including the relevant 
rules, regulations and good industry practice, on our website. Ive had this approach in mind 
when considering Mr Rs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Barclays had to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr R could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. Whats considered to 
be reasonable and proportionate will depend on things such as the amount of credit, the cost 
of credit, the amount of repayments and the customers individual circumstances. 
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Barclays asked Mr R for details of his annual income and living expenses when he applied 
for the credit card. Mr R declared an income of £19,000. Barclays verified this by using a 
credit bureau tool and concluded that his monthly net income was around £1340 and his 
monthly expenditure was around £821. This left monthly disposable income of around £466.
Barclays also carried out a credit check to find out information about Mr Rs borrowing 
history and other credit commitments. It also checked for any missed payments, defaults and 
CCJs.
Barclays discovered that Mr R had four other credit cards but only two of these had balances 
on them. It also discovered that Mr R had three loans. It calculated that Mr Rs total existing 
credit commitments were around £11,000, and that Mr Rs loan repayments were around 
£267 per month. 
Based on the information it gathered, Barclays concluded that after paying his existing credit 
commitments, Mr R had sufficient monthly disposable income to cover other expenses. It felt 
that this was reasonable for Mr R and approved the credit card application with a credit limit 
of £1200.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Barclays carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the credit card. I dont think there was anything in the information gathered 
by Barclays to suggest that the credit was unaffordable or that Mr R was unlikely to be able 
to sustainably repay the credit.
Credit limit increase
Barclays increased the credit limit from £1200 to £1600 in August 2017. Barclays used the 
information it already held about Mr R and looked at how hed managed the account before it 
approved the credit limit increase. It also carried out a credit check,
Based on what Ive seen, these checks were reasonable. There was nothing in the 
information gathered by Barclays to suggest that the increased credit wasnt affordable for 
Mr R or that he wouldnt be able to sustainably repay the credit.
In conclusion, I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays lent irresponsibly to Mr R.
Im aware that Mr R has experienced financial difficulties since taking out the credit card. But 
I dont think Barclays could fairly have identified these at the time the credit was lent. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman