DRN-4362139
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from MBNA Limited (MBNA) in relation to
incorrect contact details held on his account.
What happened
Mr H holds a credit card account with MBNA. His wife (Mrs H) is an additional card holder on
the account. Mr H says he experienced inconvenience over a period of several months due
to an incorrect phone number which was recorded on the account.
He says that, when his wife attempted online transactions using her card, MBNA tried to
contact her using an old, incorrect phone number to verify the transactions. So, he says the
transactions failed and the card was blocked until he spoke to MBNA to resolve the issue. Mr
H says that, in addition to being extremely frustrating and inconvenient, this was a security
concern for him because the authorisation texts were being sent to the wrong number.
When Mr H complained, MBNA suggested that the issue arose because Mrs H held another
account within the same banking group and that its system was using the phone number
from that account. It said that changes to Mrs Hs profile would have to be made through her
own account. It said it couldnt override this by changing her details on Mr Hs account at his
request. MBNA offered Mr H £25 as an apology for any inconvenience caused. But this
hasnt been paid as Mr H declined the offer.
Mrs H didnt think she held any other accounts within the same group but may have done so
in the past. Mr H says that MBNA wasnt helpful or supportive in resolving the issue and
wouldnt tell him what the other account was or even whether it was a banking product or an
insurance product. So, he says that he and his wife didnt know which business they needed
to contact to update their details and had to try to find out by trial and error. In the meantime,
he says that Mrs H couldnt reliably use her MBNA card and even had to ask third parties to
complete transactions for her on occasion. Mr H says that he confirmed their contact details
for all known, live accounts within the relevant banking group. But the incorrect number was
still being used by MBNA to verify payments on Mrs Hs card.
MBNA says that, in December 2022, during a call from Mr H, it updated Mrs Hs details and
recorded her mobile phone number on the account. Mr H is concerned that this may have
been a data breach as MBNA had previously told him it couldnt do this. But he says that any
changes made in December werent successful in any event, as his wife continued to have
problems using the card. He brought the complaint to this service as the issue remained
unresolved and he said he had spent hours trying to sort it out. In January, after the
complaint had been referred to this service, changes were made to the contact details on Mr
Hs account. Mrs H hasnt had any issues using her card since that time.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 September 2023, indicating my intention to uphold the 
complaint. I suggested that MBNA should pay compensation of £200 to Mr H. MBNA agreed 
to this. But Mr H said that, whilst he agreed with my provisional findings, he didnt think £200 
was enough compensation. He said it doesnt cover the inconvenience and stress caused by 
MBNA. He suggested he should be compensated by a certain amount for each letter or 
phone call he made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Hs comments following the provisional decision. Im sorry to 
disappoint him, but I havent changed my mind about the amount of compensation which 
MBNA should pay. The reasons for my decision are set out below.
Firstly, Im satisfied that there was an incorrect phone number recorded on Mr Hs account
and that this was the source of the problem. I find that verification messages were sent to
this incorrect number and that neither Mr H nor his wife had access to that phone number.
So they couldnt authorise transactions.
I note Mr Hs comment that the messages were sent to an unrecognised phone number. But,
having considered all the evidence, I find that the number was an old landline number which
Mr H had used previously. So, Im satisfied that this isnt a case of MBNA having made an
error while inputting a phone number. Rather, I think its a case of a previously correct
contact number not having been removed when it became obsolete. From the information
Ive seen, I find that MBNA first became aware that the number was no longer correct in
November 2022, when Mr H contacted it about a failed transaction. So, I dont think MBNA
had any reason to remove the number before this. But I think it should have been able to
resolve the issue promptly once it became aware.
MBNA told Mr H that his wifes contact details would have to be updated by another part of
the banking group where she held an account. MBNA says that, although its part of a wider
group of businesses, it is a separate brand and the information which its employees can
access differs across the business. It says that not all agents would have been able to see
which accounts Mrs H holds. But, even if they could, MBNA says the agents wouldnt have
been able to give Mr H that information without first obtaining consent from Mrs H. That
seems reasonable. But I dont think it was relevant here. Thats because I dont think the
problem was caused by a phone number held on a separate account belonging to Mrs H.
It's not in dispute that the issue was resolved in January. But the parties differ over how it
was resolved. MBNAs system recorded that a letter from Mrs H was received within the
banking group confirming a change of phone number and that this was actioned on 10
January. But Mr H says his wife didnt send a letter. He says she checked her details online
and found that they were correct. He says that the contact details were actually changed by
MBNA during a phone call in January.
I find that Mr H called MBNA on 7 January. MBNA has now provided a recording of that call,
which confirms the following: (a) there was no record of the old phone number on Mrs Hs
profile; (b) only one number was saved on Mrs Hs profile and that was her correct mobile
number; and (c) the old phone number was saved on Mr Hs profile, listed as a work number.
I find that the agent removed the old number from Mr Hs profile during the phone call. Mrs H
tried making a transaction online while the agent was on the phone. The verification process
still said that she would receive a call on the old number. The agent entered her mobile
number into all the fields (mobile, work, home) but the verification still referred to the old
number. The agent contacted another department for help to resolve the issue. The call
recording ends at that point (when Mr H was passed through to another department), so Im
not sure exactly what happened next. But, at that point in time, the verification process wasstill using the old number. I asked MBNA what happened next and how the issue was
subsequently resolved.
MBNA says it cant say for certain how the number used for verifying transactions was
changed. But it says its likely that the removal of the old telephone number from Mr Hs
profile led to the amendment being sent to its processing centre and actioned by them on 10
January. I find that to be the most likely explanation.
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that a change of phone number was actioned on
Mrs Hs profile on 10 January. MBNAs system recorded this as being triggered by a letter
from Mrs H. But I dont find that to be the case as Im satisfied that Mrs H didnt send any
letter. Although the old phone number hadnt been recorded on Mrs Hs profile, I think its
likely that because Mr H was the main account holder, this number from his profile was
being used as part of the verification process, even when transactions were made on Mrs
Hs card. The agent on the internal part of the call suggested this might be the case.
So, I think the removal of the old number from Mr Hs profile filtered through to Mrs Hs
profile and meant that the old number was no longer available to be used as part of the
verification process. I think this was probably logged incorrectly as an incoming letter from
Mrs H but was more likely to have been initiated within MBNA (or the wider banking group)
as a result of the call on 7 January.
Im pleased to hear that Mr and Mrs H havent had any problems with card payments since
then. But its unfortunate that it took from November until January for the issue to be
resolved. I think that the steps taken by MBNA between 7 and 10 January could have been
taken when Mr H first called MBNA about the problem in November. That would have saved
Mr H a good deal of inconvenience.
Instead of removing the old phone number at the outset, MBNA suggested that the issue
was due to Mrs H holding another account within the wider banking group. I dont find that
was the reason. I havent seen the information MBNA relied on to reach this conclusion, if
any. But it appears to have been a red herring which unfortunately meant the issue wasnt
resolved and put Mr H to the unnecessary trouble of contacting other businesses and
checking the contact details they held in an effort to find out where the problem lay. I dont
think that was reasonable. It caused Mr H inconvenience and stress as well as taking up a
considerable amount of his time.
MBNA reiterated this position in its response to Mr Hs complaint. I think that was
unfortunate as it meant the issue with the phone number wasnt looked at in more detail at
that point and the problem persisted. The reference to a letter from Mrs H also added to the
confusion. Mr H has raised concerns about MBNAs initial offer of £25, which was made 
before the problem with the contact number was resolved. He says that the problem should 
be addressed at the same time as any compensation is paid. I can understand his point of 
view. But its not the role of this service to look at MBNAs complaint handling process. In 
any event, the situation has moved on here as the original issue has now been resolved and 
Im satisfied that compensation of more than £25 is warranted.
Mr H has suggested that the compensation should be calculated by reference to the number 
of letters and telephone calls he made, with a certain amount of compensation being paid for 
each of these. I realise thats how a bank might charge for administrative matters. But we 
dont generally award compensation for specific activities or amounts of a customers time. 
Instead, we look at the situation overall and decide what we think would be a fair amount in 
the individual circumstances of each complaint, bearing in mind that our awards arent 
intended to punish the business but rather to reflect the impact on the customer.Mr H has explained how the situation affected him. The experience was frustrating and 
stressful and caused inconvenience over a period of two to three months. I think MBNA 
could have dealt with the issue more proactively, as the agent did on the call on 7 January. 
But Im looking at the situation impartially. So, Ive balanced that against the fact that it 
wasnt MBNAs fault that the old contact number was held on Mr Hs records to begin with. It 
had been recorded there legitimately but not removed when it became obsolete. MBNA 
couldnt have known that the number needed to be deleted until Mr H told it.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I still think £200 would be a fair amount of compensation in 
the circumstances here. As I said in my provisional decision, I havent seen any evidence of 
financial loss, so Im not going to make an award for that. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. MBNA Limited should pay compensation of 
£200 to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman