DRN-4342488
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) avoided his 
home insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr N took out a home insurance policy with Accredited through an online price comparison 
website and also discussed it with a broker. A few weeks later, he made a claim for storm 
damage. Accredited said Mr N answered the question it asked about previous claims 
incorrectly. And it considered this to be a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to void the policy, keep the premiums and not to deal with the claim.
Mr N complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was 
reasonable for Accredited to take the action it did, as if it had known about the previous 
claims, it wouldnt have offered the policy. As Accredited considered it to be a deliberate or 
reckless misrepresentation, this entitled it to void the policy, keep the premiums and not deal 
with the claim.
As Mr N didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 August 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless, or careless.
Accredited thinks Mr N failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he said he hadnt made any insurance claims in the previous five years. Ive looked at the 
question Mr N was asked on the price comparison website. This was Have you or anyone 
living at the property made any home insurance claims or suffered any losses in the last 5 
years?. The additional information explained this should include incidents even if Mr N didnt 
make a claim and regardless of if he was paid for the claim. I think this was a clear question. 
The policy documents Mr N was later sent explained that if anything in the statement of facts 
was incorrect that Mr N should contact the broker, as it could result in Accredited taking 
action, such as cancelling or voiding the policy or refusing to deal with a claim. In the section 
that showed the claims history for the previous five years, no claims were listed. 
I have seen the details of the claims for the previous five years. This showed five claims. 
Two of them were under a policy in Mr Ns mothers name, one was under Mr Ns name as 
the policyholder, although it noted he was the executor, and the other two were listed under 
Mr Ns name as the policyholder. Mr N accepts that he made a claim in June 2022. He has 
said that he didnt declare it because he was still dealing with the death of his mother. He 
said he was also still waiting for the outcome of the claim and only received this after he had 
taken out the policy with Accredited. But, I think its clear Mr N was aware of this claim and 
should have declared it based on the question he was asked.
Looking at the other claims, even if Mr N was only acting as the executor for one of the 
claims, there was a claim in December 2019 for storm damage where Mr N was the named 
policyholder. From what I can see, the claim appeared to be declined. But, based on what 
Mr N was asked, he still needed to declare it when he took out the policy. In my view, it was 
reasonable for Accredited to assess that Mr N would have been aware of a claim made 
under a policy in his name. So, I also currently think it was reasonable for Accredited to 
decide there were two previous claims Mr N didnt declare.
Accredited has provided its underwriting criteria, which showed that had it known Mr N had 
made multiple claims in the previous five years that it wouldnt have offered the policy. So, 
Im satisfied this was a qualifying misrepresentation.
Accredited has classified this as a reckless misrepresentation. It said Mr N would have been 
aware of the claims, including because he advised Accredited that he hadnt declared one of 
the claims because the settlement offered by a previous insurer was too low. In the 
circumstances, I think Accrediteds assessment was fair. Im aware Mr N has said most of 
the claims were under a policy in his mothers name, but two of the claims were in Mr Ns 
name and one was in his name as executor.
As Im satisfied Mr Ns misrepresentation should be treated as reckless, Ive looked at the 
actions Accredited can take in accordance with CIDRA. This allowed Accredited to avoid the 
policy and keep the premiums. It also meant Accredited didnt need to pay the claim. This is 
what Accredited did. So, I think the action it took was fair and reasonable. Im aware Mr N 
seemed to be refunded some money by the broker. However, from what Ive seen, this 
wasnt the home insurance premium itself and I dont think this meant that Accredited 
needed to refund the premium.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 September 2023. 
Accredited didnt reply. Mr N said he was still unhappy that Accredited had kept the 
premiums as well as voiding the policy. He said he had been unable to obtain new 
insurance.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision. Having reviewed the complaint again, I remain of the view that the action taken by 
Accredited was reasonable in the circumstances. This included Accredited both voiding the 
policy and keeping the premiums, as it was entitled to do this under CIDRA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman