DRN-2532418
The complaint
Mr R complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) refused to accept a payment into his account. 
What happened
Mr R says following receiving winnings from a well-known online betting company, he 
arranged for the proceeds to be paid into his account with Revolut. Mr R says Revolut 
returned the payment without good reason. Mr R says before making the payment to his 
Revolut account he checked their website and while it showed payments to betting 
companies werent allowed there was nothing to say payments into his account couldnt be 
accepted. Mr R wants Revolut to provide an apology and pay him compensation for the 
inconvenience caused to him for the error they made when returning the payment.
Revolut says they acted fairly in returning the payment but accept this has been 
inconvenient for Mr R and offered one month of their premium plan excluding travel 
insurance, free of charge, as way of an apology. 
Mr R wasnt happy with Revoluts response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Revolut returned the payment in good time and their website mentions they 
dont accept payments from certain entities. The investigator felt while the compensation 
offered was modest it was sufficient, and an apology had been given. 
Mr R wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr R to see his payment returned when 
he had checked with Revoluts website before arranging the payment to them. When looking 
at this complaint I have considered if Revolut acted fairly when they returned the payment 
credited to his account from the betting company and if the redress they have offered, for 
any inconvenience this may have caused, was sufficient.
What happened here was Mr R arranged to credit his account with Revolut following winning 
a modest sum from a major online betting company. Mr R maintains he checked Revoluts 
website before organising the payment and while it mentions payment to gambling 
companies werent permitted there was nothing to say payments werent allowed to be 
received from them. Mr R says this was a simple matter of a faster payment made from one 
UK business to his account and it shouldnt have been an issue and if it was, then Revolut 
should have made this clearer on their website. 
I understand what Mr R is saying here and while there is no definitive list on Revoluts 
website of those business they may not accept payments from, they have made clear that 
payments to gambling sites are prohibited. So, with Mr R being aware of this, although he 
says there is no specific mention of this, I am satisfied he had considered the payment may 
have been an issue and thats why he checked the website for further information. 
Not having specific mention of whom funds are acceptable from isnt the same as saying any 
payment into the account must be accepted by Revolut. Their website does say, Due to 
compliance reasons, we're unable to accept deposits by transfer from certain sources. This 
includes some cryptocurrency exchanges, certain countries, banks, and entities. Revolut 
can reasonably decide whom they are prepared to do business with and with what entities. 
If Mr R wasnt sure about the acceptance of the deposit, it was his responsibility to ensure 
this was permitted given he did have doubts about this before he made the arrangements to 
transfer the payment. While I understand  his experience on webchat took longer than he 
had hoped after he discovered the payment had been returned, if he had tried this route 
before making the payment, I am satisfied it would have become clear at that point, there 
might have been a problem. 
It is not my role to tell businesses what must be contained on their websites or what 
payments they must accept but to see they act reasonably when returning payments, to 
ensure consumers like Mr R are not financially disadvantaged as a result. In this case the 
payment was returned to Mr Rs account with the betting company within their standard five 
days and I am satisfied this is a reasonable time frame here. By doing this it allowed Mr R to 
make alternative arrangements regarding the payment, which he has since done.  
Mr R has asked for an apology and a compensation payment from Revolut. I can see 
Revolut in their final response letter in September 2020 have apologised for the 
inconvenience caused without accepting they have made an error and the letter apologises 
for the wait time on the webchat and the overall inconvenience caused. While the offer of a 
one months free premium plan is a modest token of apology, it is proportionate to the 
amount of the transaction and inconvenience caused to Mr R, given they hadnt acted 
unfairly when returning the payment for the reasons I have already mentioned. While Mr R 
will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of Revolut.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman