DRN-3661746
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he acquired by way of a conditional sale agreement with
Santander Consumer (UK) plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance was not of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr H entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander on 27 April 2020 to acquire 
a car from a dealer Ill refer to as X. He paid approximately £9,500 for the car.
He says that about five months after he acquired the car, he was driving on a dual 
carriageway when the car suddenly lost power, the oil warning light came on, he heard 
knocking sounds and noticed white smoke coming from the exhaust. He says he pulled 
into the side of the road when it was safe to do so. He arranged for the car to be 
recovered from the roadside shortly afterwards. Mr H says there was no prior warning that 
this was going to occur. There hadnt been any warning lights or other indication that such 
a catastrophic moment would occur.
Mr H had the car recovered and asked his own garage to check it. He was told that the car 
needed a new engine and a new turbo. The expected cost was around £6,200. Mr H 
complained to X but he says he didnt get a satisfactory response. He complained to 
Santander. He said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and asked Santander to unwind 
the agreement.
Santander investigated his complaint. It asked an independent expert to inspect the car. 
The independent experts report said that the engine had seized. The expert said the 
cause of this was consistent with general in-service wear and deterioration to the turbo 
charger unit. The engine oil had been depleted due to it bypassing through the turbo 
charge causing consequential damage to the engine. The expert concluded that he would 
not consider the car would have displayed this fault to be present or developing at this 
level at the point of sale. And, he thought the repair costs had increased due to car drive 
on.
Santander asked the expert to comment on the fact that only around 1,600 miles had 
been travelled since the date the car was delivered to Mr H. The expert said it was fair to 
say, given the mileage since the date of delivery, that the cause would be the 
responsibility of X but the car did appear to have been driven on and X couldnt be liable 
for the increased costs of repair which had resulted from the driving on.
Santander asked X to comment on whether it had serviced the car before it had been 
delivered. X confirmed this. Santander said that after considering the experts report and 
the further comments from X, it was unable to evidence that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Mr H didnt agree. He referred his complaint to our service. At this stage, Mr H decided 
to sell the car in its current state and early settle the agreement with Santander. He 
early settled the agreement by paying Santander £6,383.66 on 1 March 2021 and 
credited the proceeds of the sale of the car (£2,650) to Santander on 5 March 2021. He 
says he purchased another car in May 2021 as he needed a car to go to work.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. She thought Santander hadnt acted fairly. She 
said there was a major fault with the car. It was less than six months since Mr H had 
acquired the car. The cost of repairs would be around two thirds of what he had paid for 
the car. She didnt think there was enough evidence to say he had starved the car of oil.
Our investigator said that in order to resolve the complaint, Santander should take 
the following actions:
Mr H sold the car for £2,650 - this should be deducted from the settlement figure of 
£9,033 and the difference should be refunded to him plus 8% simple interest.
Mr H had the car from April to October 2020 so this usage time should be 
deducted from the final settlement figure.
Our investigator hadnt been provided with any evidence that Mr H was without 
his car for any amount of time, so she hadnt included a refund for this amount.
£150 should be paid to Mr H for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Santander didnt agree. It provided further statements from X and evidence to show that 
the car had been serviced before it was delivered to Mr H. It said that after the expert had 
inspected the car, Mr H had continued to drive it  causing further damage - and this 
wouldve affected the sale price hed obtained. It said he hadnt reported any defect within 
thirty days and that meant he had no rejection rights under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA).
Our investigator didnt change her view. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I 
issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant legislation which applies to car finance agreements, specifically 
the CRA, Santander can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. The CRA says that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking account 
of the description of the goods, the price paid or other consideration for the goods 
(if relevant) and all other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the 
other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things 
like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
When Mr H entered into the conditional sale agreement the car he acquired was six 
years old. The mileage was recorded as 52,859 miles. Mr H paid £9,995 for the car. 
Given the age of the car, the mileage and the price paid, I wouldve expected there 
to be some wear and tear.
Mr H says that just five months after taking delivery of the car it broke down. He 
says this was a sudden event. He had it taken to a garage to get checked. Ive 
looked at the invoice which was issued following this check. It records:
complaint of smoke, lack of power and rattle, found turbo worn out, oil 
sump empty and crank knocking.The garage stated the engine and turbo needed to be changed and the estimated 
cost of the repairs would be just over £6,200.
When Mr H reported this to Santander it commissioned its own independent report. 
That report also recorded that after the engine was started there was a noticeable 
heavy knocking from the bottom of the engine, there was a screeching noise from 
the turbocharger area and white smoke from the exhaust, which was excessive. The 
report also concluded that the engine, turbocharge and sundries needed to be 
rebuilt.
So, there is no dispute about the fault with the car or the action that needed to be 
taken to repair it. But, the issue I have to decide is whether the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply  that is the date and time when Mr H took 
delivery of the car.
Santander said the vehicle had been serviced and passed its MOT before the sale. 
In these circumstances, it said it was unable to evidence that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It said the car had been driven whilst 
starved of oil which in turn caused the engine to seize. So Santander thought the 
fault was caused by the car being driven whilst starved of oil.
Having thought about everything here, Im not persuaded the vehicle was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Ill explain why.
The independent report stated that in the opinion of the engineer the fault was 
caused due to:
general in service wear and deterioration to the turbocharge unit causing 
depletion of oil due to engine oil bypass through the turbocharge and 
consequential engine damage which would not have been present or 
developing at this level when the car was acquired.
Santander noted that the mileage covered during the period since Mr H acquired 
the car had been less than 2,000 miles. It asked the independent expert to 
comment further. He said:
It would be fair to say that due to the mileage covered, the initial cause 
could be the responsibility of the selling agent, however, car does appear to 
have been driven on.
Having read the comments of the independent expert, Im satisfied, on 
balance, he did conclude that there was a fault developing at the point of 
supply. I say this because the independent expert referred in his initial report 
to the fault either not being present or developing at this level and then in his 
subsequent report he referred to the initial cause being the responsibility of 
the selling agent.
Santander has referred to what the independent expert said about the car 
having been driven on. It also relies on the fact that the dealer has provided 
evidence the car was serviced and passed its MOT shortly before it was 
delivered to Mr H.
The mileage on the car when the independent expert inspected it was 54,474  just 
1,615 miles had been travelled since the date of the MOT. The garage that checked 
the car recorded that when the vehicle was recovered there was no engine oil in the engine. The engine oil level wouldve been checked as part of the MOT. But, after 
only 1,615 miles it had been depleted and the oil sump was empty. Given the 
passage of time and the low mileage covered, I dont think that couldve been 
caused because Mr H starved the car of oil.
The independent expert thought the engine oil had been depleted due to bypass 
through the turbo charger. He thought this wouldve been noticeable because there 
wouldve been knocking, oil pressure lights and smoke.
Mr H says he did notice knocking, oil pressure lights and smoke  but only at the 
point in time when the car broke down. And, having thought about it, I dont think he 
wouldve been able to drive the car on if the issues the independent expert has 
indicated were being experienced prior to that date. Theres no evidence that any of 
these warnings (knocking, oil pressure lights or smoke) had presented themselves 
prior to the date when the car stopped.
Santander has also suggested there is evidence to indicate Mr H drove the car on 
and this impacted the sale price he achieved. It has referred to the mileage on the 
car, noted at its next MOT, on 22 April 2021. At that date the mileage was 55,527. 
Santander says this means the car was driven on, even after the independent 
inspection. And, it says the value of the car wouldve decreased as a result.
Im not persuaded however that the mileage at the date of the next MOT means 
Mr H drove the car on. Mr H says he didnt have the car repaired and he sold it on 
5 March 2021. Hes provided evidence to show the proceeds of sale being credited 
to his account on that date. He sold the car for £2,650. But, taking account of the 
passage of time between the date of sale and the date of the MOT, I dont think the 
mileage recorded at the date of the MOT on 22 April 2021 is persuasive evidence 
that Mr H drove the car on.
So, having considered everything here, my provisional decision is that the car was 
not of a satisfactory standard at the point of supply. Taking account of the 
description of the goods, the price paid and all relevant circumstances Im 
persuaded a reasonable person wouldnt have considered the car to have been of 
satisfactory quality. Im also satisfied, on balance, that Mr H did not drive the car 
on and the damage to the vehicle was not made worse as a result of his actions.
What needs to be done to put things right
The CRA sets out the remedies that are available to a consumer when a vehicle is 
not of satisfactory standard. In this case Mr H gave Santander the opportunity to 
inspect the car. It did not accept liability and Mr H subsequently sold the car, 
without having it repaired. He sold it for £2,650 and paid this amount to Santander. 
He also repaid the agreement early  he paid a further £6,383.66 to Santander.
The agreement records that the initial cash price for the car was £9,995. Mr H paid 
an advance sum of £185 and borrowed £9,810 from Santander. In total hes paid 
the following sums:
£185 (advance sum); plus £184.47 x 8 = £1,475.76; (monthly payments); plus
£2,650 (sale proceeds); plus
£6,383.66 (early settlement). 
Total = £10,694.42In order to determine the amount that should be refunded to Mr H, Ive deducted, 
from the total sum stated above, the following amounts:
£2,650 which was the amount he received when he sold the car; and
Six monthly payments of £184.47. He had use of the car from May to 
October 2020. So, for that reason, Ive deducted six monthly payments 
(£1,106.82) from the amount hes paid.
So, Ive provisionally decided Santander should refund £6,937.60 to Mr H together 
with 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Santander has recorded any adverse information with credit reference agencies 
about Mr Hs account, it should remove that information.
Our investigator also considered the distress and inconvenience Mr H had 
experienced as a result of what happened. Hes told us he didnt have use of the car 
after October 2020 and after he sold the car and repaid Santander he was only able 
to afford to purchase a replacement vehicle in May 2021. I accept that Mr H has 
been inconvenienced and I can see that it took some time to sell the car and raise 
the funds to repay Santander. So, I think that does need to be reflected in the 
compensation he should receive here.
Mr H has also had to progress his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered that £150 would be fair and reasonable. But, I dont think that is enough 
to compensate Mr H for what happened. Having considered everything, Ive 
provisionally decided £300 would be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) plc. I intend to require it to:
Refund £6,937.60 to Mr H together with 8%* simple interest on this amount 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
If it has recorded any adverse information about Mr Hs account with credit 
reference agencies, remove that information; and
Pay Mr H £300 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened.
Mr H responded to the provisional decision. He said he had nothing further to add.
Santander also responded to my provisional decision. It said it had no further comments to 
make but it disagreed with the decision. It reiterated the points it had made previously:
- It had supplied an email which provided information that the selling agent should 
not have liability;
- Mr H had continued to drive the vehicle after the independent experts report 
showed there was a fault with the vehicle. Mr H had caused further deterioration to 
the vehicle which would have affected the selling price;
- The complaint had been raised more than 30 days after the vehicle was acquired. 
So, Mr H was not entitled to rejection rights; and- Mr H had caused further damage to the vehicle which would have decreased its 
value and that was the reason why it was sold at a low price. Santander should not 
be liable for the shortfall.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. Although Santander hasnt 
provided any new or further information, it has indicated why it disagrees with my provisional 
decision. So, Ive thought again about each of the points it has raised.
The selling agent should not have liability
Santander has referred to an email from the dealership which provided further information 
that the selling agent should not have liability. The email referred to the information in the 
independent experts report dated 26 November 2020 which the dealership said stated that 
the selling agent should not have liability and the current faults would not have been 
present or developing at the point of sale.
In my provisional decision I did comment on the independent experts report of 26 
November. The actual wording which the independent expert had used was different to that 
quoted in the email referred to. The wording in the report about the cause of the fault was as 
follows:
general in service wear and deterioration to the turbocharge unit causing 
depletion of oil due to engine oil bypass through the turbocharge and 
consequential engine damage which would not have been present or 
developing at this level when the car was acquired.
[emphasis by way of underlining added]
I also noted that the report of 26 November needed to be read in the context of the further 
report which the independent expert provided to Santander. In that report the independent 
expert stated:
It would be fair to say that due to the mileage covered, the initial cause 
could be the responsibility of the selling agent, however, car does appear to 
have been driven on.
[emphasis by way of underlining added]
As I said in my provisional decision, having read everything that the independent expert said, 
I was persuaded he did conclude there was a fault developing at the point of supply. I 
referred to what he said in his initial report about the fault either not being present or 
developing at this level and then in his subsequent report he referred to the initial cause 
could be the responsibility of the selling agent.
Having looked at this again I have not seen any new information which would cause me to 
change my view.The dealership made other points including a reference to the service which had been 
completed before the car was delivered to Mr H. But, having considered the independent 
experts comments, this information doesnt change my view that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply.
Mr H had continued to drive the vehicle after the fault had been reported
In my provisional decision I commented about what the dealer had said about the vehicle 
being driven on after the fault was reported. Having considered all the information provided I 
provisionally decided, on balance, that the evidence did not support this conclusion.
When the independent expert inspected the car Mr H had only travelled 1,615 miles since 
the date hed acquired it. After that date Mr H said he wasnt able to drive the car because of 
the nature of the faults that it had. Hes referred to knocking noises and smoke from the 
exhaust. On balance, I didnt think it was likely he wouldve driven the vehicle when it was in 
this condition. It wasnt clear what the mileage was when he sold the car on 5 March 2021. 
The next MOT was 22 April 2021. At that date the mileage was recorded as 55,527. 
On 26 November 2020, when the independent expert inspected the car, the mileage was 
recorded as 54,474. So between that date and the date of the next MOT the car travelled 
1,053 miles. Mr H said he had not driven the car on. And, as Ive said in my provisional 
decision, I was persuaded, on balance, it was likely the mileage covered after the date of the 
independent experts inspection took place subsequent to the sale of the vehicle by Mr H in 
March 2021.   
Mr H was not entitled to reject the vehicle
Santander has referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). It says that because Mr H 
didnt complain within the first 30 days after acquiring the vehicle, he isnt entitled to rejection 
rights.
It is the case that the vehicle was delivered to Mr H on 7 May 2020. He raised his complaint 
shortly after the vehicle broke down on 17 October 2020.
The CRA sets out the remedies that are available to a consumer when, as in this case, a car 
is not of satisfactory quality. These include, among others, a short time right to reject and a 
right to ask for repair or replacement. It is the case that the short term right to reject must be 
exercised within 30 days of acquiring the car. But, in his complaint to Santander dated 24 
October Mr H explained that he was asking Santander to remedy the situation. He described 
the fault and provided an estimate for the repairs. In these circumstances, the CRA provides 
that where the goods were of unsatisfactory quality Santander could repair or replace them  
but it must do so within a reasonable time.
The CRA says that any question as to what is a reasonable time is to be determined taking 
account of the nature of the goods and the purpose for which they were acquired.
In this case, Mr H told Santander hed acquired the car very much as a second car for his 
family. The car had broken down as he was driving to his work in October 2020. He says 
that after the car broke down he had to borrow a car to travel to work. In these 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Mr H to decide to sell the car in March 2021 and 
purchase a replacement shortly after that date. He was without use of the car hed acquired 
under the finance agreement for around five months after it had broken down and he wasnt 
able to drive it.It is also the case that Santander was aware that he intended to sell the car. There is a note 
of a conversation with Mr H in December 2020, shortly after Santander had issued its final 
response letter. During that conversation Mr H indicated he wanted to get rid of the car and 
terminate the agreement. The records indicate that Mr H had rejected the car. Santander 
advised Mr H to repair and sell the car. It told him he had to settle the agreement in full. Im 
satisfied that at this point, Santander had made clear to Mr H it was not accepting liability 
and was not going to repair or replace the vehicle.
Mr H did settle the agreement in full. But, he didnt repair the vehicle before it was sold 
because of the cost involved and because he believed that Santander was liable. In these 
circumstances, I think it was fair and reasonable for Mr H to sell the vehicle, in the condition 
it was in, and seek compensation from Santander for his loss.
The low selling price for the vehicle was due to the vehicle being driven on after the 
fault was identified.
Ive already commented above about the suggestion that Mr H drove the car on. As Ive said 
above, Im not persuaded that he did do that and so I do not think the selling price was low 
because of Mr Hs actions.
Having looked at everything again, theres nothing that persuades me to change my view 
about the actions that I think need to be taken to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) plc 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance. I now require it to:
Refund £6,937.60 to Mr H together with 8%* simple interest on this amount 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
If it has recorded any adverse information about Mr Hs account with credit 
reference agencies, remove that information; and
Pay Mr H £300 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of what happened.
*If Santander Consumer UK plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr H it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman