DRN-2699237
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), with whom she has a fixed sum loan, have made inaccurate reports to her 
credit file and have reported a default incorrectly. She also complains that they were wrong 
to sell her debt to a debt recovery company and that the supplier of the goods, BPF have 
financed, provided poor service.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
what we cant consider
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to consider every complaint that is brought to 
us. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules detail which complaints we can consider. 
Amongst other tests the customer has six months from the date he or she receives the 
business final response letter to refer their complaint to us. After six months has elapsed 
this service needs consent from the business to consider a complaint and failing this it can 
only do so unless there are exceptional circumstances why it was brought late.
Here BPF havent given us permission to consider Mrs B complaints about the service 
provided by the company who built the conservatory the loan financed, or about the credit 
file reports they made to Mrs Bs credit file before April 2015. Thats because its more than 
six months since they provided their final response to Mrs B on these issues. 
Ive considered the business final responses provided in 2013 and in 2015 and I agree that 
they consider those matters and that the final responses follow the rules set out by the FCA. 
I agree that this service is not free to consider those aspects of Mrs Bs complaint.
Whilst I understand that Mrs B says she didnt receive the final response letters from BPF I 
am satisfied they were sent by BPF. Thats because Ive seen system notes to that effect 
and whilst I can see they had the post code slightly wrong I dont think that stopped 
correspondence reaching Mrs B. I can see system notes from Mrs B complaining about 
reminder letters she had received, and that were sent to the same address with the 
inaccurate post code.
the transfer of the debt to a debt collection company
Section 9.2 of the terms of the loan agreement says:
We may assign our rights under this agreement to any person or company which is a bank 
or other financial institution. 
So, Im persuaded that BPF had the right to sell the debt to a debt collection company.
Mrs B is concerned about the collection activities of that business but thats not something it 
would be fair for me to consider against BPF.
If Mrs B remains dissatisfied with the debt collection company activities she will need to 
complain directly to them.
the default
In May 2017 BPF reviewed Mrs Bs account and noted that she hadnt paid anything towards 
the agreement since March 2015.
Guidance from the Information Commissioners Office says that a lender should record a 
default if an account is in arrears of three or more months and that it would expect a default 
to be reported by the time an account was six months in arrears.
By the time BPF reviewed Mrs Bs account it was more than six months. So, Id think it fair 
and proper for them to register a default. But as a default stays on a credit file for six years it 
would not have been fair if BPF had registered the default at that point. BPF backdated the 
default to August 2015 so Im satisfied that they did what was necessary to report the default 
correctly and I dont think they need to take any further action.
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI)
I understand Mrs B has a complaint about PPI. Thats not been something Ive been able to 
consider here as it didnt form part of her initial complaint and its not been something BPF 
have been asked to look at yet.
It may be that Mrs B has missed the deadline to make a complaint to BPF about PPI as that 
was in August 2019, but in the first instance she should discuss her complaint with them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman