DRN-2964316
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service she received when she requested a Covid payment 
holiday on her loan with Ikano Bank AB (publ).  
What happened
Miss M took out a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano to pay for a sofa. 
In February 2020, Miss M says she called Ikano and asked for a three-month Covid payment 
holiday. This was agreed but a payment was taken out shortly after. 
Miss M says she then got a series of letters requesting payment and telling her that any 
failure to pay would result in the missed payments being reported to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). Miss M said this added to what was an already stressful time and her 
credit score came down as a result of it. 
Lastly, Miss M said she logged a complaint with Ikano, but it was closed early and without a 
resolution. Overall Miss M was unhappy with the service Ikano gave her when applied for the 
Covid payment holiday. 
Ikano looked into the complaint and agreed it should be upheld. It agreed that Miss M asked 
for a Covid payment holiday that was put in place in March 2020, but as the direct debit for 
March was already in the process of being claimed, it was taken in error. It agreed to refund 
the payment and Miss Ms account was brought up to date.  
Ikano went on to say that an admin error meant that Miss Ms account was treated as in 
arrears and that triggered several letters requesting payment. Ikano said that although no 
payments were reported as missed to the CRAs, it could understand the distress this 
caused Miss M. Ikano originally agreed to pay Miss M £25 compensation, later increasing 
the compensation amount to £50. 
In summary, Ikano found it couldve handled the whole situation better, including the phone 
calls Miss M had with its advisors and its handling of her complaint. 
Miss M remained unhappy with Ikanos offer of compensation, so she brought her complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed Ikano couldve handled Miss Ms 
Covid payment holiday request much better, for largely the same reasons as Ikano had 
identified. Our investigator found a higher amount of compensation was due and increased 
the amount to £150. Ikano came back and agreed with the increase, but Miss M remained 
unhappy. 
As no agreement could be reached around the level of compensation, the complaints been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from the information Ikano have given our service that Miss M called on 26 March 
and asked for a Covid payment holiday. Marchs payment then went out and, following a call 
on 26 April Ikano confirmed this was in error and refunded the payment. Im satisfied Ikano 
gave a valid reason for the payment being taken, and it was corrected at the earliest 
opportunity. Given the payment was in the process of being taken, I dont find any action at 
the point the holiday was put in place wouldve prevented this from happening. So, I dont 
find Ikano need to compensate Miss M for this. But the Ikano advisor couldve told Miss M 
that this was a possibility, so at least Miss M was prepared for the payment being taken. 
At the point the payment was refunded Ikano shouldve stopped any late payment letters 
being sent to Miss M, and it didnt do this. Miss M has given us details of the stress this put 
her under and Ive no doubt that this added to what was an already difficult time. After all, 
she was calling in March to get financial support.  But Im also satisfied the higher award that 
Ikano have agreed here fairly compensates Miss M for the length of time she spent worrying 
about the error, the fact she wasnt told earlier and the time she eventually spent on the 
phone finding out what happened. 
Miss M has said that her credit score has gone down due to the late payment. Ikano 
investigated this point and confirmed that no late payment was reported. Given Marchs 
payment was taken in error rather than missed, I can understand why this wouldnt have 
been reported to any CRAs. 
Ive also seen the letters sent to Miss M, and although they do tell her that this could happen 
if payment is not made, it doesnt confirm this had been done at the point they were sent. 
Miss M hasnt sent us any information to show that a late payment was recorded to the 
CRAs. Although Miss M has said her credit score has decreased, to make a finding in her 
favour here, Id have to be satisfied that was due to Ikanos error and its not something Ive 
found.
Miss M has highlighted several other areas where Ikano didnt get it quite right. She didnt 
get the best experience from advisers on the telephone and her complaint was closed early. 
Ikano has apologised for these errors and reassured Miss M that they will provide feedback 
to those involved. Im satisfied that this is fair in the circumstances of the complaint.
I can see that since the complaint has been with our service, the sofa has been returned and 
the loan agreement cancelled. Hopefully Miss M can now put the issues she experienced 
behind her. 
Putting things right
In summary Im satisfied Ikano has made errors and caused Miss M distress and 
inconvenience when handling her request for a Covid payment holiday, and I find Ikano 
should pay Miss M £150 to compensate her for this.  
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and instruct Ikano Bank AB (publ) to pay Miss M £150.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman