DRN-2577959
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) misled them into believing their 
mortgage endowment policy was on track to meet its projected maturity value only for it to 
pay out around £1,300 less upon maturity.
 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why
Mr and Mrs Ws held a unit linked mortgage endowment policy that matured in April 2020. 
They say they have received a payment of around £1,300 less than the lowest growth 
forecast despite having received a letter from Zurich three months prior saying it was on 
track to meet and even exceed its target amount prior to maturity. Mr and Mrs W feel theyve 
been misled and would have taken action to increase their mortgage repayments if theyd 
been given advance notice of any potential shortfall.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ws plan has matured with what they perceive to be a £1,300 
shortfall. But I think its important to point out that this isnt money that has been taken away 
from their plan or redistributed. This is because the amount of £19,363.77 quoted Zurichs 
letter of 14 December 2019 was a prospective value that It wouldve anticipated it could 
achieve with an assumed growth rate of 4%. It was never money that was in the plan all 
along that has been clawed back at the last moment; the value of the units is dependent on 
the performance of the funds theyre invested in, which will change constantly  meaning the 
value of the endowment is also prone to change and is not guaranteed. 
I can see that Zurich sent Mr and Mrs W a letter on 4 March 2019 telling them their plan was 
on track to reach its target amount of £19,000 on the basis of an assumed growth rate of 
4%. But I can also see that Zurich made it clear that the projected growth rate was not 
guaranteed and was subject to change:
The growth rate projections used are not guaranteed. Investments will do better in 
some years than others so the situation can change, even over a short period. This 
means your maturity value could be lower or higher than shown in the illustrations. 
The impact of poor investment performance will be greater if your plan matures soon 
as there is less time for markets to recover and less time for you to consider what 
action to take.

No growth rate is certain to be achieved and it is important to remember that over 
the shorter term (less than five years), the impact of investment volatility can be 
severe, as there may be little time to recover from short-term fluctuations. The effect 
of any volatility will depend on how close it is to your maturity date.
So although Zurich quoted £19,363.77 in its letter three months prior to maturity, theyre 
under no obligation to pay this and Im satisfied they made it clear to Mr and Mrs W that the 
maturity value could be lower than that shown in illustrations due to the potential for severe 
short-term fluctuations in the underlying investments. 
I appreciate it must have been very disappointing for Mr and Mrs W to have received less 
than they were expecting. But Zurich has shown that although the overall number of units in 
the plan increased each month, the price of those units fell quite dramatically between March 
and April 2020  an unfortunate consequence of the turmoil caused by the Coronavirus 
pandemic that few could have predicted. So Im satisfied Zurich has given a reasonable 
explanation for the reasons behind the shortfall and theres nothing to suggest this was due 
to negligent mismanagement of the fund as opposed to the prevailing market conditions 
when the policy matured. 
Mr and Mrs W said they were misled by Zurich because in the letter they received in March 
2019, they were told that even with a growth rate of 1.5% per year, they would receive 
£19,400, and that the rate of growth required to meet their target amount was 4% or lower. 
They said that if they had been warned of a potential shortfall, then they would have taken 
action to increase their mortgage payments to try and cover the shortfall. But as Ive set out 
above, the letter of March 2019 has various warnings that there is no guarantee of what will 
be paid, including:
It is impossible to be certain about future investment growth and your maturity value 
could be lower or higher than shown in the illustrations, particularly if your plan 
matures soon.
Even though the March 2019 letter said the plan was on track to meet its target amount of 
£19,000 it still said that Mr and Mrs W should think about taking action to prepare for a 
shortfall:
What should I do now?
Your plan is currently on track to reach its target amount assuming investments grow 
at 4% each year.
You need to think about what you would do if your plan did not reach its target 
amount and you may want to take some action now. You may want to talk to your 
financial advisor.
Zurich then gave examples of what action Mr and Mrs W could take to help guard against 
the risk of shortfall, including starting an additional savings plan, or even extending their 
current plan. So Im satisfied they ought reasonably to have known that their endowment 
policy was not guaranteed to meet its target irrespective of what the assumed growth rate 
was, and that they were given appropriate warnings as well as guidance with regards to 
what action they could take to prepare for a shortfall. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M on this occasion, but Im not persuaded theyve been 
misled in these circumstances and I cannot fairly hold Zurich responsible for the shortfall in 
their plan. It  follows that I will not be asking it to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman