DRN-3726662
The complaint
M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund it after it fell victim to a scam. Mr R 
has brought the complaint on behalf of M and personally dealt with the fraudster, so Ill refer 
to Mr R instead of M where relevant throughout this decision. 
What happened
In June 2021 Mr R was expecting to complete on a house purchase. Unfortunately, emails 
between him and his solicitor had been intercepted and so he unknowingly ended up making 
his deposit payments to a fraudster rather than to his solicitor.
Mr R made five payments to accounts belonging to fraudsters, totalling £50,000, made up of 
five payments for £10,000 each. The first four went to one account, with the final payment  
going to a different account on instruction of the fraudster. Mr R realised hed fallen victim to 
a scam following a conversation with his genuine solicitor.
Mr R reported the scam to HSBC. HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers
who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of
circumstances.
HSBC assessed what had happened against the provisions of the CRM Code. It decided   
Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis for belief the payments he was making were legitimate 
and where HSBC provided written or verbal warnings, that Mr R ignored them. HSBC 
refunded 50% of the third payment Mr R made, this was because it acknowledged it didnt 
do enough to protect him from falling victim to the scam for this specific payment. But it felt it 
had done enough to protect Mr R in relation to the other payments. HSBC contacted the 
beneficiary banks (the banks to which the payments were made) and was able to recover 
£2,598.90 of the money that was lost, which was refunded to Mr R.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr R, on behalf of M, referred the complaint to this service. 
He felt HSBC hadnt done enough to protect him and shouldve been clearer and more 
insistent as to how to protect yourself from an email intercept scam. Mr R accepted he 
couldve done things differently with the benefit of hindsight but felt the loss couldve been 
avoided but for HSBCs actions.
With HSBCs partial reimbursement of the third payment Mr R made, plus sums recovered 
from the recipient banks Ms loss stands at £42,401.10.
An Investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and upheld it. Overall she felt Mr R had fallen 
victim to a sophisticated scam, hadnt acted without a reasonable basis for belief and hadnt 
ignored Effective Warnings (as she concluded HSBC hadnt provided any).
HSBC provided a detailed response which Ive summarised below:
- Mr R tried to make the first payment, following a confirmation of payee no match 
warning, several times which suggests he had reservations about it.
- While Mr R says he contacted his solicitor by phone and email to check the account 
details the time of the email suggests this couldnt have been the case. And in any 
event, the written response from the fraudster, posing as the solicitor, contained poor 
grammar and didnt make sense.
- HSBC believes Mr R understood that he should verbally confirm with the solicitor the 
Confirmation of Payee no match message.
- The reason given for the change of account details prior to the fifth payment was 
implausible.
- During intervention calls with HSBC, Mr R misled the call handlers into thinking hed 
verbally checked the account details with the solicitor.
- M shouldve known better as a business and HSBC questioned whether M followed 
its own payment procedures.
- Mr R shouldve questioned the legitimacy of the correspondence from the fraudsters, 
as the tone was different and the invoices looked odd and unformatted.
- It also referred to the contents of a call recording to defend its position which hadnt 
previously been provided.
The investigator explained why she was still of the view the complaint should be upheld.
As agreement hasnt been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money M lost. I 
am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the 
circumstances of this case.
- I am also mindful that when Mr R made these payments, HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or 
other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. Here Im satisfied HSBC should have 
done more before processing the payments. Had it done so, I am satisfied the fraud 
would have come to light and the loss prevented.
- Im also satisfied, for reasons Ill explain later in this decision, HSBC should pay M 
8% simple interest from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about the warnings it gave and whether 
Mr R had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not 
persuade me to reach a different view. In particular I am not persuaded that Mr R failed to take the requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the 
terms of the CRM Code. Ill explain why.
First Ive considered whether Mr R ignored Effective Warnings. Ive seen a written scam 
warning that was shown to Mr R and listened to three call recordings that HSBC has 
provided. All of the payments Mr R made flagged with HSBC as requiring further checks 
and/or warnings ahead of processing. Im therefore satisfied HSBC identified APP scam 
risks on all five payments.
Prior to the processing of the first payment HSBC called Mr R to make enquiries as to the 
purpose of the payment. The call handler asked Mr R a number of questions which covered 
a few different types of scam. Relevant to the scam Mr R fell victim to, the call handler asked 
Mr R how hed received the account details to which he responded that hed received them 
by email. The call handler went on to ask him whether hed verbally confirmed these details 
and Mr R said he had. Later on in the conversation Mr R was asked whether hed confirmed 
the account details were legitimate and in response he said hed spoken to his solicitor that 
morning.
While a number of questions were asked, no context was provided as to the relevance or 
significance of them. In the circumstances I can understand why Mr R didnt think too much 
about the precision of the answers he gave. HSBC has argued that speaking to someone 
verbally and emailing them cannot be perceived as the same thing, but the evidence 
persuades me that Mr R, at the time, felt hed confirmed the details and didnt appreciate the 
significance of not doing so verbally. He likely decided that all HSBC wanted to know was 
whether hed checked the account details were correct and given hed done just that, albeit 
via email earlier that day, I can understand why Mr R answered the questions in the way he 
did. Im also satisfied that colloquially people do refer to various forms of communication 
differently and interchangeably  particularly when they do not associate much importance 
with the specific language they are using. While Mr R doesnt remember why he answered 
the questions in the way he did, on balance Im persuaded Mr R felt he was being asked 
whether hed confirmed the details with his solicitor without understanding the significance of 
not having done so verbally, and so just confirmed that he had.
In any event, under the CRM Code, in order for a firm to conclude a customer has ignored 
an Effective Warning it needs to have provided an Effective Warning in the first place. The 
definition of an Effective Warning is set out in the Code. Here HSBC simply asked Mr R a 
series of questions, presumably to ascertain whether he might be at risk of financial harm 
from fraud. But Mr R had told the call handler what the payment was for, and so the most 
obvious scam risk was that of a conveyancing email intercept scam. I dont think it was 
reasonable for HSBC to take answers to questions asked out of context at face value and in 
turn fail to provide an Effective Warning. None of the features of this common scam were 
conveyed via a warning during the phone call to Mr R. So in turn it cannot be said that he 
ignored an Effective Warning. In order for Mr R to understand how to protect himself hed 
have needed to read between the lines of the questions HSBC was asking him; something I 
dont think he could reasonably have been expected to have done.
The next day when Mr R made the second payment HSBC spoke to him again. Mr R was 
asked similar questions and again confirmed hed spoken to his solicitor the previous 
morning. Mr R was then given impersonation scam warnings rather than an Effective 
Warning relating to email intercept scams  the most obvious scam risk present at the time 
given the purpose of the payment. So again, Im satisfied Mr R did not ignore an Effective 
Warning.
HSBC has accepted it didnt do enough to protect Mr R for the third payment and has 
reimbursed him 50% of that payment as a result.HSBC again called Mr R ahead of processing the fourth payment. Most of this call consists 
of HSBC confirming Mr Rs identity before it went on to ask him that hopefully he hadnt 
been contacted by a third party, responded to an unknown text or email and hadnt been 
tricked or forced into making the payment. Nothing HSBC said during this call related to the 
scam Mr R fell victim to and so again, Im satisfied Mr R did not ignore an Effective Warning. 
When Mr R made the final payment he was shown a written warning. This warning read as 
follows:
Check the invoice is authentic. Fraudsters can pose as a genuine business or a professional 
contact. If you receive an unexpected bill or an updated invoice with new account details it 
could be a scam. You must contact the payee to verify the payment details using a phone 
number from a trusted source i.e. website. If you continue without checking you accept the 
money may go to a fraudulent account and we may not be able to get it back.
Ive asked Mr R what he thought about this warning. Mr R has told us he was just completely 
fooled into believing he was communicating with his solicitor. Ive thought carefully about 
this. Its not clear how much attention Mr R paid to the warning; HSBC has been unable to 
show us evidence of how long he was on the warning screen for. Ultimately though, I dont 
think the warning was effective. I dont think it sufficiently brings to life the scam Mr R fell 
victim to  it doesnt sufficiently emphasise just how sophisticated the posing of a contact 
can be. And so when a customer is liaising with who they believe to be their solicitor, who is 
using an identical email address, with no other red flags to the communication I can 
understand why a customer would move past it as it lacks impact and specificity.
Overall, even though its I accept HSBC took steps to protect Mr R from financial harm from 
fraud I dont think it did enough. Im not satisfied it provided Effective Warnings and in turn I 
do not think Mr R ignored any.
Ive gone on to think about whether Mr R had a reasonable basis for belief that the payments 
he was making were legitimate. As Ive explained Mr R made five payments and so Ive 
thought about whether he had a reasonable basis for belief for all five payments, or whether 
this belief ought to have wavered over time.
Mr R fell victim to a classic email intercept scam  typically sophisticated and hard to detect. 
The fraudster clearly knew when Mr R was likely to be asked to make a payment for the 
property purchase and therefore the requests for payment werent unexpected.
Here the fraudsters email address was identical to that of the genuine solicitor and so there 
was nothing to alert Mr R to the fact he was dealing with someone other than his solicitor.
While HSBC comments that the tone and formatting of the invoice was questionable, I dont 
agree. I cannot see how Mr R ought reasonably to have picked up on any differences to the 
usual tone of his solicitor, or that anything was amiss within the invoice  even with the 
benefit of hindsight I dont think there is anything particularly concerning about the fraudulent 
communication.
Ive also thought about the confirmation of payee message Mr R was shown before he made 
the first payment.
HSBC says the message Mr R wouldve seen was a no match message. But the evidence 
doesnt persuade me this was the case. Weve asked HSBC to provide this message but it 
hasnt been able to do so. Instead HSBCs evidence suggests Mr R saw an unable to match 
message as follows:Before proceeding with the payment you should contact the beneficiary and confirm their 
account details via a phone number or an email from a trusted source
Ive thought about whether Mr Rs basis of belief ought to have been affected by the unable 
to match COP message and whether the steps he took following sight of the message 
indicate he had concerns about the legitimacy of the payment request.
Mr R clearly considered whether the account details hed been given were correct given he 
emailed the fraudster, posing as his solicitor to check (broadly in line with the advice given in 
the message), and, according to HSBC attempted to make that payment multiple times 
(presumably to check hed inputted the name and account details correctly).
While HSBC considers the steps Mr R took show he had reservations about the payments 
he was making, I disagree. Mr R checked the account details with who he believed was his 
solicitor before proceeding and received a response essentially telling him the details were 
fine. HSBC argues this response was unconvincing but I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Mr R to think otherwise at the time, without the benefit of hindsight. The fraudster simply said 
that other people have reported the same issue but that it was ok to proceed.
It's relevant that since the inception of COP many legitimate account details dont match or 
cant be matched with the account holding name and here Mr R, completely unaware email 
interception had taken place, believed what he was told by who he thought was his solicitor. 
In those circumstances I dont find his actions or the belief in who he was dealing with was 
legitimate to be unreasonable. The fact he checked the account details does not in my view 
amount to doubt; rather someone exercising caution that they were sending the money to 
the right place.
By the time Mr R made the fifth payment he was told to pay a different account. Ive thought 
carefully about whether Mr R ought to have questioned the legitimacy of the request and 
whether the reason given by the fraudster was plausible. I accept that someone with a good 
understanding of the features of this type of scam, or a good understanding of how company 
bank accounts work mightve been concerned they werent dealing with a legitimate person. 
But that wasnt the case with Mr R. He was completely convinced he was dealing with his 
solicitor and so quite reasonably thought nothing of the reason given for the change in 
account details.
Ive considered whether the written warning and the content of the telephone calls from 
HSBC ought to have affected Mr Rs basis of belief. Ive concluded the telephone calls Ive 
listened to and the warning Ive seen werent effective for the reasons Ive explained above. 
It's broadly for the same reasons that I dont think HSBCs interventions ought reasonably to 
have impacted Mr Rs belief that he was genuinely dealing with his solicitor. Im satisfied    
Mr R was utterly convinced he was communicating with his solicitor and in the absence of 
properly bringing to life the key features of an invoice intercept scam I can understand why 
the interventions didnt resonate with Mr R at the time.
Ive thought about what HSBC has said, in that this was a business, so it ought to have 
known better and HSBC has questioned whether M followed its own payment procedures. 
But I dont think HSBC can fairly rely on this as a reason not to refund M under the
CRM Code. Mr R has explained that this is a small business, which was only set up recently 
following his retirement. The payments lost to the fraudster were the first payments made by 
the company and Mr R has explained that the payment process was purely to follow the 
instructions of his solicitor. M is a small company and not a large corporate, as such I dont 
think its unusual for it not to have a more formal written policy.Overall, Im satisfied Mr R fell victim to a sophisticated scam and, given the particular 
circumstances of the case, had a reasonable basis for belief that he was paying his solicitor 
across all five payments made.
Finally Ive thought about whether HSBC shouldve done more to protect Mr R from financial 
harm from fraud. The first payment triggered HSBCs fraud prevention system. Ive already 
explained why I dont think the conversations or written warnings went far enough. Im 
persuaded that had HSBC sufficiently brought to life the type of scam Mr R was most likely 
to be affected by based on the information HSBC had available to it, I think its more likely 
than not Mr R wouldve understood the importance of verbally checking the account details 
with his solicitor ahead of making the payment. Had this happened, Im persuaded Ms 
losses wouldve been prevented.
This has a minimal impact on the outcome to this case given Ive already concluded HSBC 
ought fairly and reasonably to have reimbursed M under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
My conclusions that HSBC ought to have prevented the scam only affect the dates the 
interest is payable from.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained, I uphold Ms complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc and instruct it 
to:
- Refund M the remaining money that was lost, being £42,401.10 and;
- Pay Interest at 8% simple per annum on that amount, from the date of each payment 
to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman