DRN-4376312
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs T have complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund the money they lost to 
an investment they now believe was a scam.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In August 2018, Mr P and Mrs T received information or advice from an investment company 
(S) to invest money into a bond - with an organisation I will refer to as G. On 18 August 2018 
Mr P and Mrs T made a transfer of £35,000 from their Santander account via a payment 
service provider (TM) then on to G.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He didnt think any intervention by the bank 
would have made a difference in this case as G looked to be a genuine company at the time.
Mr P and Mrs T did not accept the investigators conclusions, so the case has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully noted the representations made by all the parties, but I wont be addressing 
every single point thats been raised. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the 
points havent been considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in 
reaching an outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive 
instead concentrated on the issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs) and the terms of their account, Mr P and Mrs T is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Santander says this is a failed investment rather than a scam and claims there is an ongoing 
law enforcement investigation. I note G has been dissolved. I also note Mr P and Mrs T did 
receive a return from G into their account on 20 February 2019. However, it seems that the 
outcome to whether this is a scam or not is not currently known. But I dont need to wait for 
that outcome, nor do I need make a finding on this - to reach an overall outcome that I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in this particular case.
If Santander had intervened on the payment, I dont think it would have made a difference in 
this case broadly for the reasons the investigator previously outlined  which I have 
expanded on below.
Causation is a critical determination factor in every fraud case. I need to be satisfied that 
suitable intervention would have made a difference to Mr P and Mrs Ts decision making or 
that Santander could have reasonably prevented the loss. In doing so, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  so what I consider more likely than not based on the 
evidence and wider circumstances of the case.
Mr P and Mrs T made the payment to TM - a firm regulated by the FCA as a provider of 
payment services. So, the payment was going to a legitimate destination. If questions had 
been asked about the nature and purpose of the payment Mr P and Mrs T were proposing to 
make, I think its more likely than not that Mr P and Mrs T would have explained they were 
investing in G - itself a UK registered company and recommended by S - another genuine 
UK registered company. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr P and Mrs T might have researched things more  I dont think the 
investment would have been cause for concern at the point of transfer or the events that 
have now transpired with G foreseeable. Mr P and Mrs T were making an investment with an 
organisation (G) which appeared  through its registration with Companies House - to be 
legitimate. Records held with Companies House indicate G was a genuine limited company 
that was incorporated in 2007 and was actively trading (with no suggestion of liquidation) at 
the time Mr P and Mrs T sent their money to it. So, the payment didnt look like fraud or a 
scam and it would have needed a considerable amount of investigation to unearth the facts 
about G that have now come to light (and which even now seem inconclusive after a 
considerable amount of time). So, I dont think Santander ought reasonably to have cause 
for concern.
Im sorry Mr P and Mrs T have lost a considerable amount of money and I can understand 
why they would like to be compensated for their losses. But Im only considering whether the 
bank should be held responsible for what happened here, and I dont think that it should.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman