DRN-3190921
The complaint
Mr A complains about a third party claim that was made on his car insurance policy that is
underwritten by Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven).
  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 16 November 2021. It was my intention to 
come to a different outcome to the investigator. Because of this, I wanted to give both parties 
the chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider before I came to my 
final decision. Both parties have now responded and so Im in a position issue my final 
decision. 
I have copied my provisional decision below  which also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr A was notified by Haven of a claim that was made against his car insurance
policy. The incident was alleged to be on 6 April 2020. Mr A says he has no recollection of
such an incident happening  and he now says that the claim could be fraudulent.
Haven has said that it is alleged that Mr As car hit the third-party vehicle while it was parked,
and that Mr A drove away from the scene. Mr A says that it couldnt have been him or his
vehicle because he was in hospital at the time with Covid-19.
In July 2020, Haven asked Mr A to send photos of his vehicle. But Mr A said he couldnt
provide these because his car had been seized by police in May 2020. It then asked Mr A for
photos of his car again in December 2020 and said that if Mr A couldnt provide photos then
it would settle the claim on the best possible terms with the third-party. But Mr A said he
couldnt provide these because after his car had been seized, it was later sold by the finance
provider.
Because Mr A didnt provide the information it needed to investigate the claim, Haven held
him liable for the incident. However, Haven has said that it hasnt yet paid out for any repairs
to the third-party.
Mr A complained about this to Haven. But it responded to say that it hadnt done anything
wrong. It said that without images of Mr As vehicle showing no damage, it wouldnt be able
to defend the allegations being made against him if the case were to go to court.
Our investigator also looked into things, but he didnt uphold Mr As complaint. In summary,
he thought that Haven had done enough to investigate the claim. Mr A didnt agree with our 
investigator and he made a number of points, I have summarised the points relevant to the
investigation below:
He couldnt have been involved in the incident because he was in hospital at the time 
receiving treatment for Covid-19.
He couldnt provide photos of the car when Haven asked for them in July and 
December 2020, because the car had been sold.
He has received poor service from Haven  they often didnt return his calls or 
respond to his emails.
Mr A questions how Haven can be certain that it was his car involved in the incident.
The third-party insurer says the car was parked at the time, so how do they know it 
was his car involved. He asks if there is any evidence to prove this.
Because Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt my role to determine who was liable for the incident; that would be a matter for a court
of law. What Im deciding is whether Haven has acted in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the claim fairly.
In line with most insurers, the policy says that Haven can take over the settlement of the
claim. So, it can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it - or it can decide whether it is
prepared to defend Mr A if the matter went to court. Court proceedings can be expensive,
and the outcome cant be guaranteed, so insurers will consider the costs involved and the
likelihood of success in making these decisions. That might mean Haven makes a decision 
Mr A disagrees with, as has happened here.
I can understand Mr As frustration with being held liable for an incident he says he wasnt
involved in. While I cant make a decision as to who was liable for the incident, I have looked
to see if Haven have acted fairly in deciding how to settle matters and Ive checked it has
made a reasonable assessment of the claim.
Its probably worth noting here that this claim hasnt yet been settled. And while the claim is
open, it will be recorded as a fault claim. A fault claim doesnt necessarily mean that an
insurer thinks a person was at fault for the incident, but it means that it wasnt able to recover
the full costs of the claim, and so its recorded as fault. However, I can see that Haven
initially told Mr A that it intends to hold him liable, which would result in a fault claim.
Looking at everything thats happened here, I can understand why Mr A is unhappy. Haven
have continued to ask him for photos of his car, when he has told it more than once that he
doesnt have the car anymore. Mr A wasnt notified of the incident until July 2020. And by
this point, the car had already been seized by police and then later sold by the finance
company. So, it would be difficult for him to send the evidence Haven has asked for.
I can see Haven has relied on the fact that Mr A couldnt provide photos of his car, in
determining how the claim should be settled and that failure of Mr A to provide this
information resulted in Haven being more favourable to the third party  and settling the
claim holding Mr A liable. In normal circumstances, I might agree with this approach, given
that it wouldnt be an unreasonable request to ask for photos. But in this case, Mr A told
Haven that he was no longer in possession of the car. He told Haven this in July 2020 (and 
later in December 2020), when Haven first informed him about the claim against him. So, I
currently find it unreasonable that Havens initial decision appeared to solely rely on Mr As
failure to provide photos, when it was aware all along that he was no longer in possession of
the car.
Mr A has sent us a letter from a medical practitioner to confirm that he had tested positive for
Covid-19 on 7 April 2020. Mr A says this shows he couldnt have been involved in theincident. But the letter only says that Mr A tested positive for Covid-19 on the day after the
incident allegedly took place. The letter doesnt confirm the dates Mr A received treatment.
So, I dont think this necessarily proves that Mr A couldnt have been involved.
There isnt much information available from the third party at all. All that seems to be
apparent from Havens notes is that the third-party had said that Mr As car hit their car while
they were parked and drove off without leaving any details. There is also the repairs invoice
on file for the damage. Haven have asked the third-party insurer for more details about the
incident, but it is still yet to receive a response. So, Haven doesnt know any details about
what happened, the location, or why the third-party thinks Mr As car was involved.
Having looked at Havens notes, there appears to be some suggestion that because Mr As
car was seized in May 2020, and sold, that this is in some way linked to the April incident.
But I havent seen any independent information about why Mr As car was seized, and
Haven hasnt sent me any information to persuade me the two incidents were related. So
again, it seems unfair that Haven has potentially drawn this conclusion with the information it
has, without doing more of an investigation first.
This service has now been able to obtain a report and photos from the finance provider of Mr
As car from when it was sold in July 2020. We have sent these photos and the report to
Haven. Haven have since come back to me to say that it doesnt think the photos show
damage to the car. And so, it would be prepared to defend the claim made against Mr A.
I am aware, based on the most recent information sent by Haven, that it hasnt yet settled
this claim with the third-party. However, it has also said that it hasnt heard anything from the
third-party for a very long time. And if it doesnt hear back from them by the end of the year,
it would close the claim down as notification only. Which means that there wouldnt be a
fault recorded against Mr A.
Based on everything Ive said above, I think Havens more recent position on this claim is a
fair one. It has told our service it will attempt to defend the claim based on the information it
has so far. Or it will close the claim down as notification only if it doesnt hear back from the
third-party. I cant make any findings on the overall outcome of the claim given that it hasnt
yet been settled, but Havens current position seems reasonable.
Mr A has also said that spent a lot of time contacting Haven and trying to get through to
them to discuss the claim. He has also said he was promised call backs that didnt happen.
Ive seen some of the emails Mr A sent to Haven, and they do suggest that he was waiting to
hear back from someone, but this doesnt appear to have happened. Haven hasnt sent me
anything to show that it did contact Mr A when he asked or called him back when promised. I
can understand why Mr A would be keen to speak to Haven  especially given that it was
clear it intended to base its decision on liability on the outcome of some photos Mr A wasnt
able to provide. I currently think Haven needs to compensate Mr A for these things.
Haven has responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepts it  and it accepts my 
recommendation to compensate Mr A £250.
Mr A has responded to say that he agrees with the decision, but he doesnt agree that the 
£250 is enough to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience the situation has 
caused him. He said that at the time, he was battling with mental health issues, weight loss, 
loss of hair and many other things. And hes very unhappy about Havens previous decision 
to hold him liable for the incident.
  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, I have decided to uphold Mr As complaint, for much of 
the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
Id like to thank Mr A for taking the time to respond to my provisional decision. And Im very 
sorry to have learned of the difficult time hes had over the last year or so. 
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said in response to my provisional decision. And 
while I empathise with his current situation, he hasnt provided any new information that I 
didnt consider in my provisional decision. 
I know Mr A would like more compensation for the things that Haven could have done better. 
But when Ive thought about compensation, Ive thought about the specific actions of Haven. 
In doing so, as mentioned in my provisional decision, I can see that Haven often didnt 
respond to Mr A when it said it should have. I can understand how frustrating this must have 
been for Mr A, and I thought about this when deciding on a suitable level of compensation.
I can also see that this claim has been going on for some time  but much of the reason for 
this is also down to the third party. Haven has been trying to contact the TP for more 
information in order to help it with its investigations but unfortunately, on many occasions it 
didnt hear anything back. So, I dont find that some of the delays are solely the responsibility 
of Haven.
Haven has now agreed to dispute liability on Mr As behalf, or settle the complaint as 
information only if it doesnt hear back from the TP. Its probably worth noting here that in 
my provisional decision, I didnt say that Mr A wasnt liable for what happened  it isnt my 
role to decide this. I just didnt think that based on the information Id seen at that time that it 
had done enough to decide that Mr A was liable for the incident. Mr A has mentioned an 
increase in premiums, but when a claim is ongoing, it is recorded as a fault claim  this is 
normal, and I dont draw anything negative from this. But when a fault claim is recorded, 
insurers will often deem this to be a higher risk, which is likely to affect the cost of insurance. 
Again, there isnt anything wrong with this, an insurer can charge what they like for a policy. 
However, if it is decided that the claim should be recorded as non-fault, or information only, 
then Mr A could speak to his current insurer about this after the settlement, to see if they 
would be happy to reduce his premiums on that basis.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr A, I order Haven to pay Mr A £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him, for the reasons I have stated above.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr As complaint. Haven Insurance Company 
Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman