DRN-3894991
The complaint
Ms B, in conjunction with her representatives, has previously complained about the advice 
given by Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) trading as Allied Dunbar to purchase a Free-
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. This complaint has been 
assessed and upheld by Zurich who offered redress based on a charges comparison 
between the FSAVC and the in-house occupational AVC scheme.
Ms B rejected this outcome and has stated redress should be based on the fact she should 
have been advised to purchase added years through her occupational defined benefit (DB) 
pension scheme.
What happened
In July 1992 Ms B met with a tied adviser working for Zurich. At this meeting the adviser 
conducted a fact-finding exercise which recorded Ms Bs circumstances at that time. This 
noted:
 Ms B was 37 years of age with a partner and two children. 
 She was employed as a teacher, earning around £23,000 per annum, and had been 
a member of her occupational defined benefit pension scheme for 12 years. 
 The scheme was noted as having a normal retirement age of 60, with Ms Bs desired 
retirement age recorded as 55.  
 Ms Bs attitude to risk was recorded as 2. This was on a scale of 1 to 4 (very cautious 
to speculative). 
 Ms Bs objectives were noted as being to maximize pension arrangements.
 Notes on the fact find state Ms B was worried about possible future redundancy.
 No detail on household expenditures or disposable income was recorded.
 It was noted that the family home was up for sale with a new mortgage possibly 
required in future.
Following this, Ms B was advised to start an FSAVC policy. Regular contributions of £53.33 
gross (£40 net) per month increasing in line with inflation were agreed, with the premiums to 
be invested into the Managed Fund.
Ms B complained to Zurich in November 2021. The complaint noted that the FSAVC policy 
had been mis-sold and requested that a charges comparison be undertaken to compare it to 
the available in-house AVC scheme offered by Ms Bs employer.
Zurich investigated and upheld the complaint. A comparison was made in line with the 
methodology outlined in the FSAVC Review and redress of around £4,700 was offered.
This offer was rejected by Ms B who questioned why redress had not been calculated based 
on a comparison with her option to purchase added years within her occupational DB 
scheme. 
Zurich investigated this issue but concluded that redress should be based on a charges 
comparison rather than an added years calculation.
As Ms B did not agree, the complaint was referred to this service.
Our investigator looked into things and concluded that the complaint should not be upheld, 
stating that redress based on a charges comparison was reasonable.
The investigator accepted that given Ms Bs age at the time of advice, her occupation, the 
fact she had a long-term partner with dependent children, and the fact she had a low / 
medium attitude to risk it could be considered that added years would have been an 
appropriate basis for redress. 
However, the occupational scheme had a normal retirement age of 60, with the FSAVC 
scheme set up to match Ms Bs desired retirement age of 55. Our investigator noted that the 
early retirement penalties that would have been applied to both the main occupational 
scheme and any added years purchased by accessing them at age 55 would have equated 
to between 20-25% of the benefits accrued. These significant penalties meant the 
investigator was not persuaded Ms B would have chosen the added years option for her 
additional contributions.
Ms B, through her representatives, did not agree and noted that they believed Ms B met the 
majority, if not all, of the criteria relating to the suitability of the added years option.
Our investigator was not minded to change their opinion, and as such the case has been 
forwarded to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, there is no need for me to consider the suitability of the FSAVC itself. Zurich have 
already accepted that the advice was not suitable. 
The only issue I need to consider is whether the redress should be based on a charges 
comparison (between the FSAVC and the in-house AVC option) or whether Ms B would 
have opted to purchase added years within her occupational DB scheme.
The decision is based on the information that would have been available to Ms B and the 
adviser at the time with an emphasis based on the contemporaneous evidence available. 
Over the 30 plus years since this advice was given, the relative value of defined benefit 
pension provision has increased as returns achieved on other investments has fallen. 
Expected returns on stock market-based investments today are much lower than they were 
in 1992, however it is the circumstances as they were in 1992 which I much consider.
It is also worth noting that in 1992 a tied adviser (an adviser who could only recommend 
products provided by the company they worked for) had to follow the rules set in 1988 by 
LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). These rules stated 
that advisers should exercise due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with customers. 
Whilst tied advisers could not give advice regarding the suitability of occupational pension schemes, they had to consider any available occupational schemes customers may have 
access to.
As per the commentary provided by Ms B through her representatives, and as discussed by 
the investigator in their findings, there are several indicators within the file that could support 
the conclusion that had Ms B been made aware of the possibility of purchasing added years 
through her occupational DB scheme she would have taken that option.
Ms Bs occupation was one which I would generally consider stable. At the age of 37 Ms B 
was well established in her current profession and it is not uncommon for teachers to remain 
in their profession until retirement. As such, purchasing added years within the existing DB 
scheme would potentially have allowed Ms B to enhance her retirement provision without 
incurring additional policy costs or taking on any investment risk until her retirement. 
Additionally, in purchasing added years within the DB scheme, Ms Bs family would also 
benefit from enhanced pension provision in the event of her death.
Whilst there are elements of Ms Bs circumstances that support the idea she would have 
opted to purchase added years, there are also factors that support the investigators 
conclusion that the in-house AVC option would have been selected instead.
At the time of advice Ms B was 37 years of age and had accumulated 12 years service 
within her occupational DB scheme. Given Ms Bs stated desired retirement age of 55, 
another 18 years service could be accumulated through normal contributions before 
retirement. This would leave Ms B with a 10-year shortfall that could be made up through 
additional contributions.   
The vast majority of added years arrangements, including public sector arrangements are 
not intentionally subsidised by the employer. This means added years cost more to the 
member than gaining a normal year of service under the occupational scheme. So added 
years were often considered an expensive option when viewed against the same 
contribution being paid to a money purchase plan, given the very high investment returns 
envisaged at the time. The cost of an added years option would also have increased each 
year as Ms Bs salary increased (either through inflationary rises in salary or through 
promotions)
I have considered the fact that Ms B did choose to automatically increase her contributions 
in line with inflation over the years, however, whilst the monthly cost of the added years 
option is not on file, I can say with confidence that the initial cost of purchasing the additional 
10 years would have been significantly more than the £40 (net) contribution agreed in 1992.
There is no disposable income figure included in the 1992 paperwork and as such I cannot 
say what premium would have been affordable to Ms B. However, financial circumstances 
were clearly discussed at that time as the file noted Ms B was concerned around possible 
future redundancy and stated there was a potential new mortgage. As such it is reasonable 
to conclude significant thought was given to the initial and ongoing affordability of the agreed 
premium. I can see no evidence that Ms B would have agreed to the increased initial cost of 
the added years option, with the possibility that a potential redundancy and/or a new 
mortgage could limit what premium Ms B was willing to commit to at that time.
I accept that Ms B would have had the option to select a lower initial premium and only 
purchase a percentage of her available added years to make the cost fit with her initial 
budget.  However, I consider it reasonable to conclude that the much higher cost of 
maximising the added years option would cause Ms B to question the value of this course of 
action  especially when comparing this to the high investment returns expected in 1992.It is clear from the file that Ms B was willing to take some investment risk with the new 
pension contributions. There is no definition of the risk score of 2 however I consider it 
reasonable to state that a cautious rather than no risk approach would be a match to this 
score. 
As above, in 1992 expected investment returns were much higher than they are today. 
Lower, mid-rate and upper-rate industry standard growth projection rates for investments in 
1992 were 8.5%, 10.75% and 13% respectively. It is these growth projections which Ms B 
would have had to compare against the added years option, and it is these high growth rates 
that I believe support the conclusion that Ms B would have opted for the in-house AVC 
scheme.
As well as the cost of the added years option and the high investment returns expected of 
the alternatives, the FSAVC / AVC options would also be considered more flexible than the 
added years option. It can be more difficult to start / stop / alter contributions when 
purchasing added years and the file does have some evidence that this may have been a 
concern to Ms B. As stated above, there is limited information as to the affordability of the 
added years option within the file, with the comments around a possible future redundancy 
and potential future mortgage also suggesting that a more flexible option may have been 
preferred by Ms B at that time.
Overall, whilst I appreciate it is impossible for me to know exactly what Ms B would have 
done in 1992 had further information been given about both the in-house AVC scheme and 
the potential to purchase added years within her DB scheme, I consider it reasonable to 
conclude that it is the in house AVC scheme which would have been chosen on the basis of 
its affordability, flexibility and the high potential investment returns.
As such, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Ms B (or her representatives) should contact Aviva to 
arrange payment of the redress already offered based on the charges comparison.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman