DRN-2649860
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way TSB Bank plc handled his chargeback complaint.  
What happened
Mr M complained to TSB about an online purchase he had made for two pairs of mens 
boots.  Instead of receiving the boots, he said he had been sent a fake pair of designer 
sunglasses.  TSB cancelled the card used to make the purchase, issued a new one and 
raised a chargeback. In the meantime, it credited Mr Ms account with the money.
In response to the chargeback, TSB said it received evidence suggesting Mr M had received 
what he had paid for and in fact had signed for the item.  It said it would be re-debiting the 
funds.
But Mr M complained and said the evidence sent to TSB was contradictory and TSB had not 
picked up on this. The weight of the item which the merchant said it had sent could not 
possibly match the weight of two pairs of boots.  Also, Mr M wasnt disputing he hadnt 
received the goods  rather that the goods received were not what he had ordered.
So, TSB once again responded to the merchant with this challenge  which was eventually 
excepted.  It did not re-debit Mr Ms account.
Mr M complained to TSB about how it had missed this crucial bit of evidence and said had it 
not been for him alerting TSB to this, the chargeback would have failed, and he would have 
lost his money.
TSB did not uphold his complaint, so the matter was brought to our service.
In its submissions to our service, TSB said it had dealt with Mr Ms complaint during a 
particularly challenging time of lockdown due to the Covid 19 pandemic.  It accepted it had 
not scrutinised the evidence sent by the merchant but argued, ultimately, that Mr M had 
received his money back.
Our investigator thought it should pay Mr M compensation of £25 for the inconvenience 
caused to him.  Mr M accepted this  but TSB did not and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken on board that TSB was dealing with this complaint during an unprecedented 
time  but Im afraid I dont think this can or should be used to account for the poor way in 
which it considered Mr Ms complaint.  If a business is not going to scrutinise evidence it has 
been sent in response to a chargeback request, then I would question the whole point of the 
procedure in the first place.
Consumers like Mr M should be reassured that when they raise a genuine dispute, their 
bank is going to listen to them and take it seriously.  It seems to me that all TSB did here 
was go through the motions  and for this reason Mr M is entitled to be compensated.  
Putting things right
For the poor service Mr M received, TSB Bank Plc shall pay him £25.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman