DRN-4193718
The complaint
A group of limited companies, that I will refer to collectively as T, complain about decision of 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to decline their commercial insurance claim and void their policy.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Whilst other parties have been, 
and continue to be, involved in the relevant matters where possible I have just referred to T 
and Great Lakes for the sake of simplicity.
T operate as laundrette related businesses and held a policy underwritten by Great Lakes. 
The policy was due to renew on 25 April 2021. In April 2021, T were sent a renewal invite. 
The documents stated:
cover has been offered and accepted on the basis of the following:

[You] have never been, or are currently a director or officer of a company which has 
been, declared insolvent or had a receiver or liquidator appointed or entered into 
arrangements with creditors in accordance with The Insolvency Act 1986, or had an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA)
As well as the companies comprising T, the previous years policy had insured a further 
company linked to T that I will refer to as L. Mr B, at the time, was a director of all of the 
companies comprising T and also of L. On 23 April 2021, T responded to the renewal invite 
saying they were pleased to confirm renewal, but that L could be removed from the policy, 
as this company was in the process of being placed into voluntary liquidation. T said that it 
would await revised documents. It should be noted that 23 April 2021 was a Friday. 
Great Lakes responded to this email on Monday 26 April 2021, asking whether there were 
any outstanding debts associated with L. T, via a third party, responded on 29 April 2021 to 
advise that, "...there are no trade creditors or outstanding debts to report." And that, "This 
company did use the Government Bounceback loan..." T also said that Ls turnover had 
dropped from around £40,000 per month to £5,000 per month. 
The following day, 30 April 2021, Great Lakes provided amended policy documents, and 
confirmed cover had been renewed with effect from 25 April 2021. 
During this period, L had passed resolution confirming it would be wound up, and an 
insolvency practitioner had been appointed. And Mr B signed a statement of affairs which set 
out the debts L owed. There is some dispute over whether this document was signed by 
Mr B, but this was either 26 or 28 April 2021. The debts set out included:
Connected Companies £22,626
Banks/Institutions £1,141
Bounce Bank Loan £50,000
Notice & Redundancy Pay £30,649
And the statement estimated the total deficiency as being around £108,600. 
In December 2021, one of the companies comprising T suffered fire damage. And a claim 
was made to Great Lakes to cover the resulting loss. However, Great Lakes declined the 
claim and voided Ts policy. 
Great Lakes said that T had not provided accurate and complete information when the policy 
was taken out. And that, if the details of Ls debt had been disclosed, it would not have 
offered the policy. Great Lakes has since confirmed that it considers this alleged failure by T 
to be a deliberate or reckless breach of the duty of fair presentation, as set out in the 
Insurance Act 2015 (the Act).
T were unhappy with this and complained. As Great Lakes did not change its stance, T 
referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. However, our Investigator did 
not uphold the complaint and it has been passed to me for a decision.
T have made a number of points during the course of the complaint. I have considered all of 
these, but have set out those I consider key as follows.
T said that the contract of insurance had been entered at the point the renewal offer from 
Great Lakes had been accepted, and that this was on 23 April 2021. And that Great Lakes 
had not sought to raise any reservation at that time. At this point L had not entered any 
liquidation process, so there was no failure on Ts part. T have also said that the renewal 
was certainly complete by 25 April 2021, which is when cover commenced. T consider that if 
there was a failure after this time, it should be considered on the basis of an Alteration in 
Risk. 
T do not consider that the removal of L from the policy increased the risks posed to Great 
Lakes. And does not consider Great Lakes would not have offered the policy had the full 
circumstances been disclosed. 
T also do not consider there to have been any failure or misrepresentation, as the liquidation 
of L and the Bounceback loan were disclosed. T feel that Great Lakes were put on notice at 
this point, and should have investigated matters further if it had any concerns. T consider 
that by not doing so, and then by providing the policy, Great Lakes has waived its rights to 
the remedies sought. T have also explained that a number of the debts L had should not 
have been considered as being those T needed to disclose. 
Finally, T have said that if there was a failure to meet the duty of fair presentation, this was 
not deliberate or reckless. And that Great Lakes needs to demonstrate that T appreciated 
the risk relating to the information it was providing, but didnt care and ignored it. 
In relation to this last point, Great Lakes has said that T had advised that there were no trade 
creditors or outstanding debts, but was aware  prior to the policy being confirmed on 
30 April 2021  that there were debts outstanding. Great Lakes considers that by signing a 
statement of affairs, for L, confirming debts on the same day as insurers raised their query, 
and advising the insurer there were no debts is clearly reckless non-disclosure of material 
facts, following a clear question being asked at the underwriting stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I should firstly stress again that the above is only a summary of events. The involvement of 
third parties in the exchange of correspondence means that some of the dates as presented 
above could be misleading. For example, the information provided to Great Lakes on 
29 April 2021 was via a third party. T themselves provided this information to the third party 
prior to this email; possibly a day or so earlier. But the overall timeline is as set out.
Ts initial argument is based on the contract having been concluded prior to any exchange of 
information concerning L and its debts. T therefore says that there cannot be a breach of the 
duty of fair presentation in relation to this information exchange, as the duty only exists 
before a contract is entered into. However, I am not persuaded by this argument.
T have said that the contract was formed as soon as T responded positively to the renewal 
invitation, and/or that the contract renewed on 25 April 2021. 
In terms of the first of these, Ts position is essentially reliant on the contract that was 
ultimately entered being the contract offered by Great Lakes at the start of April. However, 
given one of the parties to the offered contract was not a party to the contract that was 
ultimately formed, and hence the cover initially offered was not the cover ultimately provided, 
this was clearly not the same contract. 
And, whilst cover was backdated to 25 April, I cannot agree that this is the date the contract 
was formed. I consider this date was clearly 30 April 2021, when the contract containing the 
corrected parties and the declaration was provided. Backdating the period of cover does not 
change the date of the contract itself.
This is significant, as it means Ts obligations under the duty of fair presentation existed up 
until 30 April 2021. 
As I have said, there is some dispute over whether Mr B signed the statement of affairs for L 
on 26 or 28 April 2021. But either date is prior to the contract being formed. So Mr B, and by 
extension T, would have been aware of the debts of L during the period T were under the 
duty of fair presentation. T would also have been aware that Great Lakes had specifically 
asked whether or not L had any outstanding debts. So, they ought to have known this was 
information that was a material circumstance and so they had a duty to disclose it. 
I do not consider that the references made by T in relation to a Bounce Back loan having 
been previously taken out was enough to put Great Lakes on notice that it ought to make 
further enquiries. Great Lakes had asked a very straightforward question over whether L had 
any outstanding debts. This question formed the additional enquiries Great Lakes made 
having been put on notice of the pending liquidation of L. And it was explicitly told that there 
were no outstanding debts. I consider Great Lakes was entitled to rely on this statement 
without asking further questions. 
T have argued that the level of debt L had did not increase the risk posed to Great Lakes, as 
L were not going to be party to the ongoing contract. However, one reason an insurer might 
consider such information relevant is that Mr B was a director of all of these companies. So, 
him being involved in this debt accruing on one company posed a potentially increased risk 
of similar issues in relation to other companies he is involved in, and that Great Lakes was 
being asked to insure. 
Great Lakes has provided the Ombudsman Service with the relevant part of its underwriting criteria. It has not been possible to share this with T, due to the commercially sensitive 
nature of this information. But it is clear that the financial history of company directors is a 
material fact in relation to the risk Great Lakes is willing to take on. This risk consideration is 
common to the industry. 
I also consider that T was obliged to provide full details of the debts L had. Whilst I note that 
T does not consider all of these to be relevant  for example the intercompany debt had 
apparently been written off and that the costs of redundancy would be covered by the 
liquidation process  this was not a decision for it to make. And even if I accepted Ts 
argument here, there would still be other debts that it failed to disclose. 
Taking all of these points into account, I consider that there was a breach by T of the duty of 
fair presentation. 
Great Lakes underwriting criteria also confirms that, had there been the level of disclosure I 
consider there should have been  i.e. had T informed Great Lakes of all the debts L had  
Great Lakes would not have offered T the policy. This means that, regardless of whether or 
not the breach of duty by T was deliberate or reckless or not, Great Lakes would still be 
entitled to void the policy. As it would not have entered into the contract of insurance with T, 
Great Lakes can rely on the relevant remedy under the Act, and avoid the contract and 
refuse all claims.
However, Great Lakes has said that the breach of duty was deliberate or reckless. If this is 
the case, Great Lakes is also entitled to withhold the premium T paid for the policy  which 
was around £10,000.  
The Act, effectively, says that a breach is deliberate or reckless if the T knew that they were 
in breach of the duty or did not care whether or not they were in breach of that duty. It is, as 
T has said, for Great Lakes to demonstrate that the breach was deliberate or reckless. Great 
Lakes has though pointed out that T were asked a clear question over the debts of L, that 
prior to the contract being entered T were aware of the debts of L, and that T provided a 
clearly incorrect answer to this question. 
As far as I can see, Ts only defence to this position is that Mr B did not consider all of the 
debts owed by L to be those that were relevant. And it may be that when the answer to 
Great Lakes question was provided, T held an honest belief that it was providing accurate 
information (although I would against say that not all of the debts listed can be explained as 
not being relevant). 
However, upon seeing and signing the statement of affairs for L  on either 26 or 
28 April 2021  T ought to have been aware that the information previously provided was 
inaccurate. So, at that point, they either knew they were in breach of the duty of fair 
presentation, or did not care whether they were in breach. Given this, I am satisfied Great 
Lakes has fairly and reasonably treated the breach as deliberate or reckless. 
It follows that I consider Great Lakes decision to void Ts policy and to not meet the claim to 
have been fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman