DRN-4388988
The complaint
Miss M and Mr M have complained that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) has declined their 
claim.
What happened
Miss M and Mr M had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Zurich. 
They made a claim for cancellation due to the ill health of a family member. But Zurich said 
there was no cover as the policy start date was after the date of claim. 
Miss M and Mr M complained but Zurich maintained its position. Unhappy, Miss M and Mr M 
referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Zurich had done anything wrong as 
the start date of the policy was after the claim for cancellation. And it had paid appropriate 
compensation for its error and delay.
Miss M and Mr M disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
Zurich asked for medical information and this was illegal. As there was no claim to 
assess, it shouldnt have asked for confidential information.
And so the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I have fully considered everything Miss M has said and whilst I wont comment on 
everything she has said, I will address what I consider to be key to my decision. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy validation certificate confirms the start date of the policy is 7 December 
2022 and the certificate says As you have chosen to change the start date of your 
policy please be advised that there will be no cover, including holiday cancellation if 
you have to cancel your holiday, prior to the start date mentioned.
The policy confirms cancellation cover applies from the policy start date or the date of 
booking a trip, whichever is later. In this case, the policy start date was later than the 
date of booking the trip and so cancellation cover would start then. 
The GP evidence shows that cancellation was necessary as of 30 November 2022 
which is before the start date of the policy. 
Zurich accepted that it had taken too long to assess the claim and that it should have 
declined it when it was first notified of the claim. It paid £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and £60 for the cost incurred for the medical 
evidence. 
I consider the compensation paid is reasonable as Zurich should have declined the 
claim earlier without the need for the medical evidence based on the dates provided 
by Miss M on the claim form. I dont think further compensation is due as there were 
no further or lasting consequences.
Miss M has asked if Zurichs actions were illegal. Its not for me to decide whether 
Zurichs actions were illegal. But I agree that it wouldnt have needed to request and 
review medical evidence had it declined the claim earlier. I think this caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience but I am satisfied that the compensation 
already paid by Zurich is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. So I wont be asking Zurich to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman