DRN-2774838
The complaint
 This complaint is about the mis-sale of a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (trading as Hitachi Capital Insurance Europe 
Limited) to Mr T in 2007 in connection with a mortgage.
What happened
 Mr T bought a PPI policy in 2007. Mr T says the policy was mis-sold because it would 
not cover the medical condition he knew about at the date of the sale. Hitachi Capital is 
dealing with the complaint, but it says it is not responsible for the PPI sale. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld on the basis that Mr T hadnt been 
given enough clear information to make an informed choice. 
On receipt of our adjudicators uphold view, Hitachi Capital then said it was not responsible 
for looking at the complaint. It says the wording which Mr T is complaining about was a result 
of a change made by the new insurer in 2012. As Hitachi Capital disagreed with our 
adjudicators view, it asked for the matter to be looked at again by an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision in April 2021, where I explained why I thought Hitachi 
Capital was responsible for looking at this complaint and why I thought the complaint should 
be upheld. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited them to 
comment or produce new evidence. 
Mr T did not make any new comments. Hitachi Capital added the following comments:
It denied the policy had been mis-sold;
It didnt have any information to review the case, due to its age;
All customers could cancel the policy before making any payment and at any time on 
a monthly basis;
The PPI policies for mortgages were taken over sometime after 2007 and so the new 
insurer would have assumed all responsibilities from the date of transfer;
It wants proof of payments made.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
In reaching my decision, I will first consider whether Hitachi Capital was responsible for 
selling the PPI to Mr T. If it was, I will then consider whether or not the policy was mis-sold.
Is Hitachi Capital responsible for looking at this PPI complaint?
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out in the note on 
our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
Having taken into account the relevant issues, I am going to say Hitachi Capital is 
responsible for looking at this complaint.
Mr T told us he bought the PPI policy during an internet sale from a price comparison 
website  I will call it Company A.
Hitachi Capital told us the policy was sold by its agent, Company A, which was an insurance 
intermediary and had the authority of Hitachi Capital Insurance Europe to sell insurance 
policies on its behalf. Hitachi Capital also said that Hitachi Capital Insurance Europe no 
longer existed. 
In those circumstances, I think it is reasonable to conclude that Company A sold the policy 
on behalf of Hitachi Capital Insurance Europe. And as it is likely that company falls within the 
group of Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, I am persuaded that Hitachi Capital is responsible for 
looking at this PPI complaint for Mr T.
Hitachi Capital said that the policy moved to a new insurer in 2012, and that the wording 
complained of was started by the new insurance company  so it concludes that 
responsibility lies with the new insurance company. However, Mr T is complaining about the 
policy he bought in 2007  not about any changes brought about by the new insurer in 2012. 
So I am persuaded that Hitachi Capital should be looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint  
and not the insurance company which assumed responsibilities at a later date.
The merits of Mr Ts Complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I have decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint for the reasons set out below.
Hitachi Capital said the PPI was bought during an internet sale. So this was a non-advised 
sale which means Hitachi Capital had to give Mr T enough clear information (through its 
agent, Company A) so he could make an informed choice.
I dont know how Mr T was given information about the policy terms and conditions 
during the internet application  particularly the information about the things the policy 
did not cover (the exclusions). And this is important because Mr T has confirmed he 
had a pre-existing medical condition. 
Under the exclusion clauses in the PPI policy relating to pre-existing medical conditions, 
Mr T wouldnt have been able to make a claim for any condition he had known about at 
the start of the policy. The possible effect is that Mr T wouldnt have been covered by the 
PPI policy if he needed to make a claim for his pre-existing medical condition. 
I noted from the PPI application form that Mr T was asked an eligibility question to 
confirm he wasnt aware of any medical condition that has occurred in the 12 months 
prior to commencement of the policy. But Mr T confirmed his medical condition started after an accident in October 1984, and not in the last 12 months before the policy start 
date. So  although Mr T was still eligible to buy the PPI policy  the exclusion in the full 
policy terms went further than the eligibility question. So I dont think the eligibility 
question was enough to disclose the full exclusion to Mr T.
Hitachi Capital also said he would have received a Welcome Pack which had full details 
of the policy - including the exclusions and limitations and the levels of cover. But it looks 
like this was sent to him after the sale. So it is possible that Mr T may have continued 
with his purchase without being aware of the full terms and conditions. So I think Hitachi 
Capital did something wrong in the way it sold this policy to Mr T.
As Mr T was suffering from a medical condition which he knew about at the start of the 
policy, I think it is unlikely that he would have been able to claim for the condition or for any 
complications arising from the original condition. So I think the exclusion clause could have 
limited the usefulness of the policy to Mr T and this clause should have been highlighted to 
him more clearly. 
I am satisfied that Hitachi Capital probably didnt highlight this significant feature in a clear 
way to Mr T during the sale process. As a result, this was a failing in the sale. I think that if 
Mr T had been properly informed about the exclusion, he wouldnt have bought the PPI 
policy given his circumstances at the time or  as Hitachi Capital has pointed out - he could 
have cancelled the policy.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy was mis-sold so I uphold this 
complaint. I think Hitachi Capital has to put things right for Mr T.
Putting things right
 Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should put Mr T in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt 
taken out PPI. So Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should:
A. Contact the current insurance administrator to determine the insurance premium 
payments which Mr T paid;
B. refund to Mr T all the premiums he paid towards the PPI policy, and
C. pay 8% simple interest on these premiums, calculated from when each payment 
was made to the date when its refunded to Mr T.*
D. If Mr T has made a claim on the policy in the past, Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc can 
take the value of that claim off the compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc is responsible for looking at this PPI 
complaint.
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should put 
things right for Mr T as I have set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman