DRN-3438916
The complaint
Mr O complains that he didnt receive a cash incentive as expected when he switched his 
account to Santander UK Plc. 
What happened
In November 2019, Mr O applied to transfer his account from his current bank (which I will 
refer to as the other bank) to Santander as part of an incentivised switching scheme being 
run by the other bank. 
Mr O also applied to Santander for an overdraft to match the one he held with the other 
bank. This was approved by Santander but wasnt added to the account until the day after 
they opened the new account. As a result, the funds required to clear the outstanding 
balance with the other bank werent automatically transferred and that account remained 
open.
Mr O now banks with Santander but has never received the cash incentive for switching his 
account from the other bank. 
Mr O complained to Santander in October 2021 about a different matter but asked them to 
look into why he had not received the cash incentive for switching his account from the other 
bank. Santander investigated the matter. They said they couldnt apply the incentive as the 
switch was never fully completed because Mr Os account with the other bank had remained 
open. They also confirmed that Santander had exited the scheme in August 2020.
Mr O was unhappy with this response, so he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter but said he didnt think Santander was responsible for Mr 
O not receiving the incentive payment. 
Our investigator said Santander corrected the issue with the overdraft as soon as they were 
made aware and paid £150 to Mr O in recognition of their error. Our investigator also noted 
that the other bank told Mr O that he would need to make a payment to them to clear his 
overdraft so they could close his account in order for the switch to complete successfully.
Mr O didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case was passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained my reasons below.
The incentive scheme
For a customer to be eligible to receive the cash incentive, their account needed to have 
successfully switched from the other bank. This involved the customer transferring their 
primary business account from the other bank to their new bank, followed by the other bank 
confirming the current account held with them had been closed.
In this case, the current account with the other bank never closed. This was due to an 
outstanding debit balance remaining on the account with the other bank. As a result, the 
switch was unsuccessful despite Mr O opening a new account with Santander. 
The initial error in this case was caused by Santander and I understand that this is the main 
reason why Mr O thinks they should pay him the incentive amount. 
The overdraft
It is not in dispute that Santander made a mistake by not adding the overdraft to Mr Os new 
account on the day they opened it. Had this been added at the time, the balance remaining 
on the account with the other bank wouldve been automatically cleared and the switch 
wouldve been successful. 
Although it is evident that Santander made a mistake, my role is to consider what action all 
parties could have taken to reduce the impact of the error. In this case, Santander added the 
overdraft on the day after the account was opened - as soon as they were made aware of 
the issue. There was no delay in them rectifying the matter and they paid £150 to Mr O in 
recognition of their error. However, as the overdraft was added after the account had been 
opened, the automatic transfer of funds to the other bank didnt happen and as far as I can 
see no discussion took place between Santander and Mr O about the incentive at that time. 
Mr Os actions
Mr O had access to his accounts and was actively using his online banking, so it wouldve 
been apparent to him that the funds had not been transferred across to the other bank. At 
the same time, we know Mr O was aware that the account with the other bank remained 
open as he had an ongoing dispute with the other bank. So, I think its fair to say that Mr O 
was aware that the transfer hadnt happened. 
Mr O wouldve been eligible to receive the incentive payment as long as the switch 
successfully completed before Santander exited the scheme in August 2020. This means he 
had approximately nine months during which he couldve queried the matter with Santander.
I havent seen any evidence to show Mr O queried the issue with Santander before he raised 
a complaint with them in October 2021, so I cant reasonably say that Mr O took any steps to 
mitigate his loss.
In addition, Mr O complained to the other bank in January 2020. In their response to him in 
February 2020 they explained the steps he needed to take for the switch to complete 
successfully. Its therefore clear to me that despite Santanders initial error, Mr O was aware 
of the steps he needed to take to resolve the matter and despite having plenty of time 
available to do this, he didnt take any action. 
Conclusion
Santander made a mistake by not adding the overdraft during the switch process and this 
led to the account with the other bank remaining open. I also think they couldve been 
clearer in explaining to Mr O what steps he needed to take to ensure the switch completed 
successfully.However, Ive found that Mr O was aware of the steps he needed to take to ensure the 
switch was successful and he had at least six months, between February and August 2020, 
in which to take action himself or speak to Santander about making the transfer on his 
behalf. Mr O didnt do anything to progress the matter, so I dont think it would be fair for me 
to say Santander was responsible for Mr O not receiving the incentive payment.
Santander recognised their error in not adding the overdraft on the day the account opened, 
and they paid Mr O compensation of £150 to reflect this which I think was a fair recognition 
of the error they made. 
To conclude, I havent found that Santander were responsible for Mr O not receiving the 
incentive payment, so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman