DRN-3799473
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly blocked his bank account and 
stopped him from making payments. Mr S wants compensation for the trouble and upset this 
caused him. 
Mr S is being represented by Mr H in his complaint.
What happened
Mr S has a personal account with Nationwide. 
Mr S says he is a supporter of a religious outreach organisation which I will refer to as C.
Hes explained that over the years he and others have supported C by sending money to 
individuals to help fund Cs outreach work. 
In March 2020, Mr S says he attempted to send a payment of £340 to an individual 
overseas, who I will refer to as R. Mr S says R had previously loaned him money and he was 
trying to repay him. But Nationwide refused to send the payment. Mr S says this caused him 
and others a good deal of trouble as R couldnt meet his bills and other people had to step in 
and loan him money. 
Mr S says Nationwide are discriminating against him because, he and R, are supporters of 
C. And the bank wrongly believes C is a fraudulent organisation. 
Nationwide blocked the payment and told Mr S it was concerned Mr S had been the victim of 
a scam or fraud regarding the payment he wanted to make to R. And it asked him for more 
information about the payment. Mr S said although R was a supporter of C, the payment had 
nothing to do with C and he should be allowed to do what he wanted with his money. 
Following this, Nationwide decided to block Mr Ss online banking. This meant in order to 
access the funds or make any payments from his account Mr S had to visit a branch. 
Mr S complained to Nationwide, saying he wasnt the victim of a scam or fraud, and 
explained that the work of C was legitimate. In support of what he told Nationwide he also 
outlined that C along with many of those involved in the organisation, had been subject to 
false fraud allegations and baseless police investigations over the years. So, he said 
Nationwide had no grounds for blocking his account. He said that it was inconvenient for him 
to have to visit a branch each time he wanted to transact on his account. 
In response, Nationwide said it hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with its 
regulatory obligations and in Mr Ss best interests when it declined to action Mr Ss payment 
and restricted his account. It said it wanted to protect Mr S from becoming the victim of 
fraud. Mr S wasnt happy with this explanation, so he brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and said Nationwide hadnt done 
anything wrong when it refused to make the payment for Mr S. However, the investigator, 
incorrectly said that Mr S had been attempting to make a payment to a cryptocurrency 
business instead of R. Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and said hed never tried 
to buy any crypto currencies. He said he wants to see the evidence Nationwide relied on to 
restrict his account. 
In addition, Mr S said that there is absolutely no basis for any allegations of fraud to be 
levied against C and that hes done nothing wrong. He says Nationwide are part of a larger 
conspiracy to hinder the work of C.  And that Nationwide shouldnt block any payments he 
wants to make. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me to review. On 8 December 
2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Mr S via Mr H has submitted a large volume of material to us in support of his complaint, 
which includes quite a lot of background information regarding the work of C.  And the issues 
he says it has faced over the years regarding allegations of fraud. 
Ive reviewed all the material he has submitted. Im not going to cover all the points raised by 
Mr S in his detailed submissions. No discourtesy is intended by this. I also want to add that I 
understand Mr Ss strong sentiment regarding his religious beliefs, and I respect his right to 
practice his faith. But Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts.
 
I note too that Mr S has made a number of serious allegations of corruption against the 
police and Nationwide staff during his complaint. And says he (and C) have been the victim 
of false allegations of fraud. Our service has no remit to investigate criminal matters against 
individuals. It would be for Mr S to report such matters to the appropriate authorities. I also 
note that Mr S has raised issues about how Nationwide have dealt with other individuals 
known to him and who are also involved with C. But I cant comment on these. This decision 
will focus solely on his complaint.
I also note that Mr S has said Nationwide actions has impacted R because he was unable to 
send him the payment. R is a third party and not eligible to complain to us about the matter 
in his own right. If I decide that Nationwide has acted incorrectly, I would only be able to 
recognise an impact those actions had on Mr S alone. I am unable to make an award of 
compensation to acknowledge the trouble and upset Mr S has described R experienced.  
I can see Mr S feels very strongly about whats happened here. And I know he is upset 
about the restriction of his account. Thats clear from whats hes said to us and to 
Nationwide. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ss frustration and strength of feeling, its important to 
point out that the only thing in question here is whether Nationwide has done what it should 
have done. And based on what Ive seen so far, I think it has. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice ; and where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
But thats not the end of the story:Regulated firms like Nationwide are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (Principle 6)
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken 
proactive steps to:
monitor accounts and any payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams
Identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances).
Look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Institutes October 2017 Protecting 
Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the 
development of) and
in relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
Having set out the relevant considerations, I need to decide whether Nationwide acted fairly 
and reasonable in not allowing Mr S to make the payment to R. 
I can appreciate that this was an upsetting and frustrating situation for Mr S. He has 
maintained that he hadnt fallen victim to any sort of fraud or scam. And that the payment he 
wanted to make to R was for genuine reasons. He says he should be allowed to do what he 
wants with his money. And be allowed to make payments to support C. 
Mr S says that Nationwide didnt ask him for any information about the payment he wanted 
to make to R. And that Nationwide are not being truthful. Where there is a dispute about 
what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
I think Nationwide took the appropriate steps and acted fairly and reasonably in not allowing 
Mr S to make the payment to R and block his online transactions. I say this for the following 
reasons:
-Nationwide has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when 
providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain actions to meet these 
obligations. These obligations are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an 
account is opened. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to 
protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. To 
comply with its obligations Nationwide may need to review an account and/or 
restrict its customers access to accounts and funds held within them.  -Nationwide must have in place security measures and procedures to try to 
safeguard its customers accounts and ensure it complies with its legal and 
regulatory obligations.
-Mr S was well known to the branch. Nationwide say that Mr S started to withdraw 
large sums of money, which was unusual for him. And that he took out a loan 
with the bank for a religious company after initially saying the loan was for home 
improvements.
-When Nationwide asked Mr S why he was making a payment to R he told the 
bank it was for a service R had provided. But he couldnt provide any paperwork 
such as an invoice to support this explanation.
-Police had previously spoken to Mr S about payments he had made and wanted 
to make to C as they believed Mr S had been the victim of fraud regarding 
payments hed made to C. 
-Previously, Mr S had made several payments to the same person (not R) on the 
same day referenced support but told Nationwide staff it was money he owed 
the individual.
-When the branch staff asked Mr S about payments he had wanted to make on 
his account he provided a range of inconsistent explanations, and this 
undermined the plausibility of the reasons being provided.
Nationwide felt that the information it had at the time indicated that Mr S could be in a 
vulnerable position. Ive looked at the notes provided by Nationwide and they suggest that 
staff at the branch were concerned for Mr S. The bank has explained that Mr S refused to 
believe he may be the victim of a fraud and it was because of their concern for him and want 
to protect him that they declined to process the payment to R and blocked Mr Ss online 
access to his account to prevent further payments being made. Overall, when I look at all the 
circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to take these steps as a 
result of identifying indicators that Mr S was potentially at risk of financial harm.
I understand that Mr S wants Nationwide to explain the reason it applied the block to his 
account. And provide him with the information it relied on to do so. But Nationwide doesnt 
disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its under no 
obligation to tell Mr S the reasons behind the account block, as much as hed like to know. 
So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr S this information. And it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to require it to do so. Having said that, I can see that Nationwide did 
set out their concerns to Mr S about the payment he wanted to make  that they suspected 
fraud. And although Mr S didnt agree with the banks concerns, based on Mr Ss 
submissions, Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr S understood why Nationwide 
restricted his account. 
I know Mr S doesnt think Nationwide has done a full investigation and suggested that staff 
at Nationwide are corrupt. Hes convinced Nationwide has simply taken the word of 
individuals who are trying to undermine the work of C and target him. I dont know if this is 
the case regarding others. But I do know that Nationwide has done an investigation. I 
wouldnt expect it to set out for our service the full details of that. But I dont think Nationwide 
has ignored the concerns Mr S has raised. And Ive not seen any evidence, that there is 
anyone within Nationwide who is engaged in corruption. In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr S feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. And I appreciate there is a delicate balance to be 
struck. Mr S is free to use his own money as he wishes and when transactions are picked up 
for further checks, that inevitably causes some degree of inconvenience. But overall, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Nationwide acted unfairly or made a mistake by 
refusing to make the payment to R.  
Nationwide also did the right thing by asking Mr S relevant questions in order to understand 
what the transaction was for. As a result, Im satisfied Nationwide tried to act in Mr Ss best 
interests and that it didnt act unfairly by refusing to make the requested payment and 
restricting his account. As I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong, Im unable to order it 
to pay any compensation. 
Nationwide accepted my provisional decision. Mr S didnt. In summary, he said:
He isnt a victim of a scam or fraud
Hes provided Nationwide with literature and information which is says shows the 
legitimacy of the work being carried out by C
Mr S is the victim of organized high-level corruption and I should believe what Mr S 
has said about his financial activities
Nationwide are hiding behind their regulatory excuses
Other supporters of C have also been treated unfairly by Nationwide which amounts 
to persecution 
Nationwide were meddling in religious matters by refusing to allow Mr S to send his 
payment to R and have violated his rights 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all the comments Mr S has made in response to my provisional decision. Im 
not going to cover all the points raised. No discourtesy is intended by this. But Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. I also want to add that I 
continue to understand Mr Ss strong sentiment regarding his religious beliefs, and I respect 
his right to practice his faith. 
In his response, I note that Mr S continues to make a number of serious allegations of 
corruption against the police and Nationwide staff regarding his complaint. And says he (and 
others involved with C) have been the victim of allegations of fraud. But as Ive already set 
out in my provisional decision, our service has no remit to investigate criminal matters 
against individuals. It would be for Mr S to report such matters to the appropriate authorities. 
I also note that Mr S has again raised issues about how Nationwide have dealt with other 
individuals known to him and who are also involved with C. But as I said in my provisional 
decision, I cant comment on these.
Mr S has submitted that Nationwide has discriminated against him by not allowing him to 
make the payment to R, on the basis of his religious beliefs. While I appreciate this is his 
perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of 
law  only the courts have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant 
law in relation to what Mr S has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010 (The 
Act). 
The Act describes religion or belief as a protected characteristic and sets out that a person 
(A) discriminates against another (B) if, because of a protected characteristic, A treats B less 
favourably than A would treat others. So, in considering whether Mr S has been unlawfully 
discriminated against, I need to determine whether there is evidence to suggest that he was 
treated less favourably on account of his religious beliefs. But after looking at all the 
evidence, Ive not seen anything to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found that 
Nationwide s behaviour was improper when it decided to block Mr S s account and decline 
to send his payment to R.
Having reviewed all of the evidence, I accept, as Mr S as pointed out, that he is free to use 
his own money as he wishes and when transactions are picked up for further checks, that 
inevitably causes some degree of inconvenience  as it did here. But overall, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I cant say Nationwide acted unfairly or made a mistake by refusing to 
make the payment to R and restricting Mr Ss account.  
I say this because Nationwide has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet 
when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain actions to meet these 
obligations.  Nationwide must also have in place security measures and procedures to try to 
safeguard its customers accounts and ensure it complies with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. 
In summary, whilst I note Mr S has made a number of submissions in response to my 
provisional decision, he hasnt provided anything new for me to consider. So, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings. And I remain of the view not to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and 
form part of this decision. 
I realise Mr S will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I cant say Nationwide have acted unreasonably and treated Mr S unfairly in taking the 
actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman