DRN-4344885
The complaint
Mr P complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) provided him with loans without carrying out the proper checks and had it
done so it wouldve discovered his poor credit history.
What happened
Mr P was advanced three loans, a summary of his borrowing can be found below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateinstalments instalment 
amount
1 £250.00 11/12/2021 31/03/2022 4 £92.74
2 £400.00 05/04/2022 31/08/2022 5 £133.13
3 £450.00 02/09/2022 outstanding 6 £137.86
Following Mr Ps complaint, MoneyBoat wrote and explained the checks it had carried out
before each loan was approved and why it considered those checks to be proportionate.
MoneyBoat didnt uphold the complaint. Unhappy, with this outcome, Mr P referred the
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint, and he upheld it in full and said none of the loans
ought to have been advanced to Mr P. He said the credit checks MoneyBoat conducted
showed for each loan there were at least five other outstanding payday loans. Which led the
adjudicator to conclude Mr P was already having money management problems.
MoneyBoat didnt agree with the proposed outcome, saying not all of the outstanding loans
were payday loans and even factoring in the cost of the outstanding loans the MoneyBoat
loans looked affordable.
The adjudicator wrote to MoneyBoat and provide more details about the loans he had seen
and why he thought the outcome he had reached was fair. MoneyBoat still didnt agree, and
as no agreement could be reached, the case was then passed to me to decide.
I then issued a provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold 
Mr Ps complaint in full but for different reasons than the ones reached by the adjudicator. 
Both parties were asked to provide any further comments or information as soon as 
possible, but in any event no later than 21 September 2023. 
Both Mr P and MoneyBoat have responded to acknowledge receipt of the provisional 
decision, and both said they had nothing further to add. 
As both parties responded before the in the provisional decision, I see no reason not to 
proceed to issue the final decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mr Ps income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P. The adjudicator didnt think this
applied to Mr Ps complaint.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans 
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was
able to repay his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loan 1
MoneyBoat has shown that as part of the affordability assessment it asked Mr P for details
of his income and expenditure. Mr Ps income has been recorded as being £1,850 per
month. MoneyBoat says the income was checked through a third-party report provided by a
credit reference agency.
Mr P also declared his monthly outgoings were £1,320  which covered a number of
categories such as rent, food and credit commitments. However, following further checks
including a credit search  MoneyBoat didnt think it needed to increase Mr Ps declared
monthly expenditure.
This left Mr P with disposable monthly income of £530. This was more than sufficient forMoneyBoat to believe Mr P could afford the largest monthly repayment of around £93. The
loan looked affordable.
Before this loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the results it received from the
credit reference agency. I want to add that although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search
there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
MoneyBoat couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the
information it received  if necessary.
MoneyBoat was also entitled to rely on the information it was given. So, Ive taken a look at
the results to see whether there was anything contained within it that wouldve either
prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks or possible have declined Mr Ps
application. Which is important because the rationale for the adjudicator to uphold this loan
was due to the number of outstanding payday loans at the time.
Like the adjudicator I can see a number of outstanding loans, but these dont appear to have
been payday loans. Have considered the repayment term and the amounts borrowed it is
likely only one of Mr Ps outstanding loans was a payday loan. And so, its likely the other
loans were either from home credit providers or possible other high cost credit providers.
But MoneyBoat was on notice that Mr P had several larger and longer-term loans
outstanding. Indeed, the total cost to Mr P just to service these loans each month was £865
 Mr P needed to spend nearly half of his income solely on servicing existing loans. In my
view, given he still had credit cards to service, and other bills as he declared (as well as the
payments towards this loan) this was too great for Mr P.
On top of his loan repayments, Mr P also had two current accounts that had been reported
as being well maintained. In addition, it knew of two credit cards, one had recently been
opened and didnt have a balance.
Whereas the other credit card had a balance of £948 against a credit limit of £900. Mr P was
over his credit limit and looking back through the repayment history of that credit card I can
see that Mr P had been at, or very close to, his limit each month he had the card. I can also
see he had taken a number of cash advancements as well. And so, Mr Ps credit
commitments wouldve been greater still. And cash advances from credit cards can be a sign
of financial distress.
In addition in 2021, MoneyBoat was aware that Mr P had settled 10 other loans, and looking
at the start date of those loans, the amount borrowed and the monthly repayment it is likely
most or all of these were payday loans. The number of settled loans does indicate that Mr P
had an ongoing need for credit  and this need had been apparent for some time.
Just using the loan repayments plus the other information Mr P declared to MoneyBoat
about his rent for example, means that is monthly outgoings were likely to be at least £1,635.
This left £215 per month  which was enough to cover the loan repayments. But, given the
fact that Mr P had a history of taking out loans and with his MoneyBoat loan he wouldve
needed to have paid over 50% of his income just to service his loans, in my view this wasnt
sustainable and so the loan ought to not have been advanced.
I am intending to uphold Mr Ps complaint about this loan but for different reasons.
Loans 2 and 3
The same sort of checks was carried out for these loans as they were for loan one. Mr P was
asked about his income  which remained the same for loan two but had increased to
£1,950 per month for loan three.
Mr P was again asked about his expenditure and these figures had decreased since loan
one, and like loan one, following credit checks MoneyBoat hadnt made any adjustments tothese figures. Overall, Mr P had £840 of monthly disposable income for loan two and £900
when loan three was advanced. The loans looked affordable.
As before a credit search was conducted, and the results were much the same as those
MoneyBoat provided for when loan one was advanced. For loan two, Mr P still had five
active loans (and his first loan was still showing as outstanding). He had also had problems
repaying one of these loans because by February 2022, the account was showing as being
two months in arrears.
For loan three, Mr P still had five outstanding loans  and some were payday. In addition,
between loan two being closed and loan three being opened, Mr P had settled another three
loans of which one was only settled after it had fallen into arrears. By this point, Mr P was
now over his credit limit on one of his credit card accounts again.
The credit checks still show that Mr P was regularly being granted new loans and given the
terms and the amounts these are likely to be payday loans. And Mr P was still demonstrating
that he was having problems repaying his existing creditors.
So, for similar reasons as loan one, I think MoneyBoat ought to have concluded that Mr P
wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay these loans either.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr P and MoneyBoat didnt have anything further to add to the findings that were 
reached in the provisional decision. I see no reason to depart from those findings in this final 
decision. I still think the credit check results MoneyBoat received from the credit reference 
agency ought to have alerted it that Mr P was unlikely to be able to repay his loans in a 
sustainable manner. 
I therefore uphold Mr Ps complaint in full and Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat needs to 
do in order to put things right for him. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not lent to Mr P, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im satisfied it
has done wrong and should put right.MoneyBoat shouldnt have approved any of Mr Ps loans.
If MoneyBoat has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then
take the following steps. If MoneyBoat isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything MoneyBoat have already refunded.
B. MoneyBoat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 
three, and treat any repayments made by Mr P as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on the loan. If this results in Mr P having made overpayments then 
MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on 
the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the complaint is settled. MoneyBoat should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on loan three. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr P. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr P.
E. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in 
relation to loans 1  3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ps 
complaint.
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr P as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman