DRN-3888868
The complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complain that Rock Insurance Services Limited mis-sold their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 25 February 2022 Mr S1 bought a travel insurance policy at a travel agent when he 
bought his trip. The policy covered Mr S1 and his relative, Mr S2, for a single trip from late 
March to early April 2022. The travel agent that sold the policy was an appointed 
representative of Rock and my references to Rock include its representatives/agents.
While on holiday unfortunately Mr S1 was robbed and his money and some other items were 
stolen. The insurer accepted Mr S1s claim for his stolen money and paid £250, which is the 
policy limit for stolen or lost money under the terms and limits of the policy.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complain that Rock didnt explain the money policy limit to Mr S1 when he 
bought the policy and he never received the policy documents. They say Mr S1 wouldnt 
have bought the policy if hed known the stolen/lost money policy limit. They want Mr S1 to 
receive the full amount of stolen money he claimed for.
Our investigator said there was no evidence to support Rock had mis-sold the policy.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Rock sold the policy on a non-advised basis which meant there was no requirement for Rock 
to tell Mr S1 about all the policy terms and limits during the sale meeting. Rock had a 
responsibility to provide Mr S1 with the policy information so he could make an informed 
choice as to whether the policy was suitable. The policy had a 14 day cooling off period for 
Mr S1 to review the policy and decide if it was suitable.
Rock says straight after Mr S1 bought the policy it sent an email to the email address hed 
provided which contained links to the policy wording and the Insurance Product Information 
Document (IPID), which lists key points of the policy cover. Ive seen those documents and 
both are clear the policy has a limit of £250 for claims for stolen or lost money. Rocks email 
clearly said Mr S1 should read all the documents to be certain hed selected the right 
insurance cover for him.
Mr S1 said he never received the policy documents. But from the evidence Ive seen I think 
its more likely than not Rock sent the policy documents to him. The email address Rock 
sent the documents to is the same as the email address we have for Mr S1. Rock accepts 
its possible its email may have gone into Mr S1s computer junk or spam system. But theres 
no evidence that happened and even if it did I dont think Rock would be responsible. And 
Mr S1 didnt contact Rock before he and Mr S2 went on holiday to say he hadnt received 
the policy documents so I think Rock could reasonably understand he had received the 
documents. As the policy wasnt cancelled within the 14 day cooling off period Rock could 
reasonably understand the policy met Mr S1 and Mr S2s needs.
In all the circumstances I dont think theres evidence to support that Rock mis-sold the 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman