DRN-4076351
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt fairly or reasonably deal with her 
claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to a holiday 
product exchange she undertook in 2013 and paid for in part using her Nationwide credit 
card.
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mrs Ws, because it relates to a credit 
card in her sole name. But as the holiday product was in Mr and Mrs Ws name, Ill refer to 
Mr and Mrs W throughout much of this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W entered into a purchase agreement in June 2013 to buy 48,000 membership 
points with a holiday club provider (the Supplier). The 2013 purchase agreement shows 
that Mr and Mrs W already had 60,001 points, so the June 2013 purchase increased this to 
108,001.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with what happened at the time the 2013 holiday points were 
sold to them. In June 2018, Mr and Mrs W - using a professional representative (PR)  made 
claims for misrepresentation and breach of contract under the CCA. There were several 
reasons given for the claims which can be summarised as follows:
Section 75: Misrepresentation
Mr and Mrs W believed that they would be able to book holidays but havent been 
able to do so.
Mr and Mrs W were advised that they would gain access to exclusive 
accommodation, given the price paid and the representations made. But this wasnt 
true.
The product they purchased wasnt as described.
Section 75: Breach of contract
Mr and Mrs W were told they would become members of an exclusive club and paid 
a large amount for this. But the accommodation was available to non-members so 
they feel there was no benefit to their membership.
The PR also raised generic concerns about the sale of holiday club products. These were 
provided in a lengthy document and so they are not all listed here, but in summary the main 
points raised were:
Volume of complaints  given the volume of complaints raised about timeshare 
providers between 2009 and 2019 it appeared there was a significant issue with how 
the holiday product was marketed.
Credit broking  it wasnt clear whether the credit broker had the relevant authority to 
arrange credit agreements.
Market value  the true market value of the membership points being bought wasnt 
clear.
Long-term liabilities  the agreements were in place for many years - often extending 
past the expected lifetime of the purchaser - with the costs and obligations in place 
for this period.
Pressurised sales techniques  limited opportunity was given for purchasers to 
consider the complexities of the purchase and the long-term nature of the liabilities.
Management and maintenance fees  these were widely drafted, and no opportunity 
was available to challenge them. Failure to pay maintenance fees could possibly 
result in the holiday product becoming worthless and forfeited.
Irresponsible lending  proper credit worthiness and affordability checks werent 
undertaken.
Nationwide considered Mrs Ws claim under Section 75 of the CCA. It noted that for a valid 
claim under Section 75, there needed to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement 
in place. It said that the party Mrs W paid using her Nationwide credit card was different to 
the holiday club membership provider and so there was no valid DCS agreement. In a 
further final response letter, Nationwide said that insufficient evidence had been provided to 
show that a misrepresentation or breach of contract had occurred. Given this it declined 
Mrs Ws claim.
Mrs W didnt agree with Nationwide, and Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator found evidence to support there being a valid DCS agreement, so they 
considered the merits of Mrs Ws complaint and issued a view in March 2022. They were not 
persuaded that a misrepresentation had occurred or that the concerns raised gave rise to an 
unfair relationship. Therefore, they didnt think Nationwides decision to decline claims under 
the CCA was unfair.
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigators view. And the PR submitted a 36-page opinion 
from a barrister covering a number of generic submissions.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. My findings are set out below:
Section 75: Misrepresentation
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a 
claim under that provision. Our investigator provided evidence supporting the DCS 
agreement being in place and based on this I have considered the merits of this claim.
For a claim to be upheld under Section 75 of the CCA, there needs to have been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. The PR makes a number of allegations of misrepresentation 
on Mrs Ws behalf. It isnt possible for me to determine with certainty what Mr and Mrs W 
were or werent told by the Supplier. And, in the end, the part their testimony plays here 
comes down to how much it can be relied on. But, without a more detailed description of the conversation and circumstances surrounding the alleged misrepresentation, the allegations 
dont have the necessary colour and context to succeed when Mrs W is arguing that the 
Supplier made false statements of existing fact.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
While Section 140A may be a relevant consideration, and I appreciate that our investigator 
went on to consider whether a court might conclude that the relationship between Mrs W and 
Nationwide was unfair, I cant see that Mrs W (through her professional representative) 
asked Nationwide to consider this point, provided her own evidence and/or arguments to 
support it despite the generic submissions Ive referred to above. So, in the circumstances, I 
think it would be better dealt with as a separate complaint  should Mrs W wish to make one 
to Nationwide.
No new information was provided in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required to take into account the relevant law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; and codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened given 
the available evidence and wider circumstances.
As I said in my provisional decision, the PR submitted an opinion by a barrister called 
Generic submissions on behalf of complainants. As the PR suggests that the opinion is 
relevant to Mrs Ws complaint, I have taken it into account but only insofar as it discusses 
points that are of direct relevance to this complaint.
In regard to the claim under Section 75 of the CCA, I explained in my provisional decision 
that it wasnt possible for me to determine with certainty what Mr and Mrs W were or werent 
told by the Supplier. And, based on the information I received I didnt find I had enough to 
say that the Supplier made false statements of existing fact. As no new information was 
provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusion hasnt changed and I do not 
find I have enough to uphold this part of the complaint.
As also noted in my provisional decision, I think that a claim under Section 140A of the CCA 
would be better dealt with as a separate complaint.
In conclusion, while I note the comments made by the PR, having considered all the 
evidence provided in this case, I do not find I have enough to say it should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman