DRN-3657237
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services (AFS) wasnt of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In July 2020 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
AFS. At the point of supply the car was around 4 years old and had covered 30,635 miles.
At the point of supply Mr O purchased a warranty from a third party which covered repair 
costs equivalent to the value of the car. 
In June 2021 the car suffered catastrophic engine failure. Metal filings were found in the oil 
filter. Mr O was advised that he needed a replacement engine at an estimated cost of around 
£16,000.
Mr O contacted the warranty company, who said it required a full service history of the car 
before it could consider a claim. An issue arose over the most recent service which had 
been carried out by the supplying dealer, because no cost for oil was shown on the invoice. 
Mr O had concerns that the service hadnt been completed. Ultimately, the warranty 
company declined the claim because the full service history couldnt be provided.
Mr O complained to AFS. It arranged for an independent inspection of the car to establish 
whether the fault had been present or developing at the point of supply. 
The inspection was completed in August 2021. The inspector stated that the engine had 
seized, and that he had found metal particles in the oil filter. The inspector concluded that 
because the car had travelled 8,600 miles since the point of supply, the fault would not have 
been present at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the independent report, AFS didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr O remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He seeks a refund of the 
costs of replacing the engine.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he didnt think the engine in a premium car 
should seize and require replacement after 38,000 miles or 5 years. The investigator said he 
didnt think the engine was durable, which meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. The investigator said that AFS should refund Mr O the cost of the 
replacement engine, refund monthly payments for the period Mr O was unable to use the 
car, and pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience.
AFS didnt agree. It said that Mr O had purchase a used car and that no-one could 
reasonably expect a car to remain fault free throughout its lifespan. It said that the 
independent inspection report had concluded that the fault wasnt present at the point of 
supply. AFS said that it didnt agree to pay for the repairs, but that it was prepared to 
recognise the inconvenience caused to Mr O and offered to refund all payments made whilst 
the car was off the road and pay £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr O didnt want to accept the offer made by AFS. So, Ive been asked to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr O is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, so this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. AFS is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. Because AFS supplied the car 
under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term that it is of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable 
person would find acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the 
car and the price paid.
The Consumer Rights Act also says that the quality of goods includes their general state and 
condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, freedom from minor defects and safety. 
Satisfactory quality also includes durability. For cars, this means that the components must 
last a reasonable amount of time. Durability depends on various factors. In this case, Mr O 
was supplied with a car which was around 4 years old and which had covered 30,635 miles. 
The engine suffered catastrophic failure after 38,671 miles, around 11 months after the point 
of supply.
An independent inspection can help to determine whether a car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Ive looked at the independent inspection report in this case. The engineer 
found metal in the oil filter and stated that the engine would need to be removed and further 
inspected to confirm the failed part. The engineer stated that because the car had been 
driven for 12 months and had covered 8,600 miles before the engine failed, the fault wouldnt 
have been present at the point of supply.
Ive taken the independent inspection report into account. However, I have some concerns 
about the engineers comments. The engineer hasnt identified what the fault is, nor has he 
made any suggestions as to what might have caused the engine to seize. He found that 
there was metal in the oil filter but doesnt comment on what could have caused this, or 
whether this is the likely cause of the engine failure. Without any discussion of these 
aspects, I dont see how the engineer can reasonably conclude that the fault wouldnt have 
been present or developing at the point of supply.
Ive also given thought to whether the engine was sufficiently durable. Ive taken the age and 
mileage of the car into account. Whilst I agree with AFSs comment that a reasonable person 
wouldnt expect a car to remain fault free for its lifespan, I dont think a  reasonable person 
would expect an engine to suffer catastrophic failure after only 38,000 miles, particularly 
when the car has a full service history, as is the case here. Theres no evidence to suggest 
that Mr O has done anything, or failed to do anything, which would impact on the reliable 
functioning of the engine.
Taking everything into consideration, Im of the view that the engine wasnt sufficiently 
durable, which means that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. AFS need to 
take steps to put things right.Putting things right
Mr O has already paid for the engine to be replaced. I understand that the repairs were 
carried out by the manufacturer at a 50% discount. I think its reasonable that Mr O is 
refunded for the repair costs hes paid, upon production of an invoice.
Mr O continued to make monthly payments under the agreement following the engine failure. 
Because Ive found that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, I dont think its fair that Mr O 
has made payments for a car he was unable to use. AFS should refund all of the monthly 
payments made by Mr O during the period when he was unable to use the car.
Its clear that Mr O has been caused significant inconvenience as a result of being supplied 
with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. AFS should pay compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading 
as Alphera Financial Services must: 
Refund Mr O the cost of repairs on provision of an invoice
Refund all monthly payments made by Mr O for the period he was unbale to use the car
Pay compensation of £150 for distress and inconvenience
Pay simple interest of 8% per annum on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman