DRN-1950095
The complaint
Ms M complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled two claims 
made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms M was involved in a non-fault accident and made a claim, but she was unhappy with how 
Advantage communicated with her about it. Advantage agreed that it could have handled the 
claim better and kept her better informed about the liability dispute and Ms Ms car being a 
total loss. It paid her £150 in total compensation for this. But Ms M said shed been told 
shed get a refund of her excess and recovery costs. 
Ms M was later involved in another accident and she was still unhappy with Advantages 
service. She thought it had taken too long to settle the claim and it had given her conflicting 
information. She wanted letters saying how the claims had been settled and a refund of the 
additional premium charged by her new insurer whilst the non-fault claim was open. 
Advantage paid Ms M £75 further compensation for its continuing poor communication. But 
Ms M felt that the compensation wasnt enough for her stress and inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Advantage had made errors. But he thought it had addressed Ms Ms concerns fairly and 
provided reasonable compensation. 
He thought Ms M should raise the additional premium issue with her new insurer as he didnt 
think this was Advantages responsibility. He thought Advantage hadnt deducted the 
recovery costs from Ms Ms settlement. It had explained how she should recover her excess. 
He thought Advantage had reasonably offered to provide further confirmation of the claim 
outcomes.
Ms M replied that none of her complaint points had been adequately addressed. She asked 
for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Ms M was hurt in her more recent accident. I can understand that 
dealing with two claims has been a frustrating and stressful business. I can see that Ms Ms 
initial complaint to Advantage centred around its communication with her about her two 
claims. She was also wanted refunds following the settlement of her first claim as non-fault. 
As the investigator has already explained, our approach in cases like this is to consider 
whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably.
Advantage agreed that its communication had been poor, and it hadnt kept Ms M updated 
as she expected. It offered her a total of £225 compensation for the trouble and upset this 
caused her. 
When a business makes mistakes, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as 
its possible to do so. And we also consider the impact the mistakes had on the consumer. I 
cant see that Advantages poor communication caused Ms M any losses. But I can see that 
it caused her trouble and upset. 
Ms M didnt receive promised return calls on several occasions. She spoke to different 
claims handlers when she called. She was wrongly told the other drivers insurer had 
accepted liability. I can understand Ms Ms frustration. But I think Advantages offer of £225 
compensation for this is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with the level Id award in 
similar situations. So I dont require it to increase this. 
I can see that Advantage told Ms M in its response to her complaint, that her first claim had 
been settled as non-fault. From what I can see, the second claim is still open, and 
Advantage is instructing solicitors to recover its losses. It hopes for a split settlement. It 
explained that when this claim is settled, Ms M should contact her new insurer for any refund 
as she can if the first claim has affected her premium. 
As the investigator explained, this is for Ms M to take up with her new insurer. I cant hold 
Advantage responsible for the premiums charged by another insurer. 
Advantage said its told Ms M how the first claim was settled in its complaint response. But I 
can understand that Ms M is reluctant to pass on her complaint responses to another 
insurer. So I think Advantages offer to provide further confirmation of this is fair and 
reasonable. Our investigator can pass this request to Advantage if Ms M agrees. 
Ms M thought Advantage would recover her policy excess and recovery costs for the first 
claim. Ive looked at its file, and I cant see that Advantage told Ms M that it would recover 
her excess for her. The policy excess is always payable as the first part of a claim. I can see 
that Advantage has already explained that this uninsured loss would be recovered from the 
other insurer by her solicitor. I think this is standard industry practice, and so I cant say 
Advantage has made a mistake in this. 
Advantage has provided us with a breakdown of its settlement to Ms M and I cant see that it 
made a deduction for her recovery costs. I can see that Ms M instructed the recovery 
company herself. If she then had to make a payment to this company, this is a further 
uninsured loss that could be recovered by her solicitors. 
Ms M has now told us that her solicitors are still disputing liability for the second claim and 
are preparing for court action. She told us that shes unhappy that this information came 
after nine months of no communication from Advantage. 
As our investigator has already explained, Ms M would need to raise this as separate 
complaint to give Advantage opportunity to respond. If she remains unhappy, she can then 
bring her complaint to our service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman