DRN-3747891
The complaint
Mr W is bringing a complaint on behalf of his later mothers estate  Mrs W. He says Mrs W 
was subject to financial abuse from someone who worked for her. He says over £29,500 
was taken from her bank account without her authority and the bank is responsible for those 
losses. 
What happened
Mr W says he reviewed Mrs Ws bank account shortly before she passed away, at a time 
when she was unable to discuss the events. But he believes Mrs Ws gardener is 
responsible for losses from her account, approximately £29,500, and this took place over a 
21 month period. This included cheques, cash withdrawals, retail purchases and a bank 
transfer.
Mr W says the Police told him that banks are required to follow protocols when elderly and 
vulnerable consumers attempt to make large transfers. So, he wanted to know what Lloyds 
had done, to verify these transactions with Mrs W. 
Mr W said Mrs W was in receipt of a large pension payment  - this was followed by two large 
cheque payments to the individual he believes was responsible for manipulating her. And he 
says, this ought to have been considered as highly suspicious. But Lloyds didnt protect 
Mrs W and her money. He also added that cash withdrawals increased on her account from 
around £400 a month to over £1,100 a month  during a period when the country was in 
lockdown and Mrs W was elderly and disabled. Mr W says Mrs Ws account balance with a 
different bank was also depleted, during this time.
Lloyds looked into things and said:
- It agreed to refund several debit card payments but failed to do this in a timely 
manner. 
- It apologised for the poor service relating to the above and refunded the additional 
£7.98 in payments that it initially missed. And offered £500 in compensation for the 
stress and disappointment it had caused. 
- In total it refunded £1,055.01 in disputed debit card payments on Mrs Ws account. 
- It reviewed the other disputed transactions that Mr W had raised, but said these 
appeared to be authorised by Mrs W and so it wouldnt refund them. 
oThe bank transfer involved Mrs W speaking with the branch manager before it 
was authorised.
oThe cheques all appear to have been written by Mrs W.
oThe cash machine withdrawals were at the same places Mrs W had made 
withdrawals before the disputed activity. And her card and PIN were used 
each time. And although some larger withdrawals were made, these werent 
out of character.
Unhappy with Lloyds response Mr W brought the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter and, in summary said: 
- Hed considered the complaint in light of the Payment Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs) 
- He said the cash withdrawals had been carried out using Mrs Ws genuine card and 
PIN. 
- Whilst he agreed there was an increase in cash withdrawals, he didnt think these 
were unusual enough to warrant Lloyds intervening to contact Mrs W. He said they 
were over a long period of time, at similar ATMs that Mrs W had used, and the value 
increased from £100 to £200 and this wasnt significant in his opinion. 
- He also said he couldnt be sure whether Mrs W had made the withdrawals herself, 
had benefited from some of them, or had authorised someone else to make them. 
So, he didnt think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to refund them.
- He said he had considered Mrs Ws circumstances; including her age when deciding 
the above but this didnt change his opinion. 
- He went on to consider the cheques that were issued on Mrs Ws account. He said 
two cheques for £5,000 were issued within a short space of time and the second 
cheque ought to have given Lloyds cause for concern. He said Lloyds ought to have 
intervened and asked Mrs W questions about the cheque. But he didnt think this 
would have made a difference. He said he didnt know what Mrs W would have said 
so he couldnt safely say if it would have resulted in a different outcome. 
- He said it seemed Mrs W knew the person she was paying and would have likely 
been able to answer questions about him and wouldnt have thought she was being 
scammed. 
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He maintained that Lloyds, ought to 
have spotted the out of character activity on Mrs Ws account and taken steps to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process transactions 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Service Regulations 2017 and terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
It seems likely that Mrs W made some if not all of the transactions, certainly the cheques 
appear to be in her handwriting and she attended the branch to make the transfer. We dont 
know if the cash machines withdrawals were made by her. She could have withdrawn the 
cash or given over her card and PIN to someone else to make them with her authority.
And its possible in law for an account holder to give someone else authority to carry out 
transactions on their behalf so that they would be legally responsible for them, even if they 
didnt physically make or give explicit permission for each individual payment. Lloyds can 
hold a customer responsible for any spending that happened if their customer gave 
someone else permission to carry out transactions on their behalf.At the time of bringing the complaint, Mrs W had sadly passed away. Mr W wasnt able to 
speak to Mrs W about her intentions, or the events during the period of time that the 
disputed transactions occurred. He believes Mrs W was scammed by her gardener  - in the 
sense that he manipulated her to hand over or give him the money. 
The difficulty in this situation, is that we dont know what Mrs Ws intentions were. She may 
have willingly given this money to her gardener, had some arrangement with him or he could 
have manipulated her, taken advantage of her mental state or even forced her. But without 
more information from the parties involved, its difficult to determine what would have 
happened even if Lloyds had intervened and discussed the transactions with Mrs W. 
Good industry practice required Lloyds to engage in monitoring of its customers accounts 
and to be on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions that might have given 
the indication of an enhanced risk of fraud. Ive looked at the statements for Mrs Ws account 
and I can see that Mrs W made regular payments from the account  using cheques, and 
cash withdrawals as part of her day-to-day management of her finances. The disputed 
transactions look similar to this. Although I appreciate that they add up to a substantial 
amount of money, the transactions occur over an extended period. As a result, there was no 
sudden change in account use that it ought to have prompted action on Lloyds part. 
I agree with the investigator that the second cheque payment of £5,000 could be considered 
as potentially out of character. But, as Ive also said, we dont know what Mrs W would have 
said about the payments and if that would have resulted in the cheque not being paid. 
So, considering all of these factors I dont think Lloyds needs to refund Mrs Ws estate.
Just to be clear Im not saying that Mrs W hasnt been duped or even possibly scammed. Im 
simply saying that there is no indicative evidence to say what would have happened if Lloyds 
had spoken to Mrs W about the payments. And as such I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to say Lloyds is responsible to refund these payments. 
I appreciate that Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome. But that isnt to say the Mr W 
doesnt have a claim against the individual he believes was involved in the spending on 
Mrs Ws account  only that I dont think there is enough to say that Lloyds is responsible to 
refund Mrs Ws estate. 
My final decision
As Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman