DRN-3422318
The complaint
O, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money it lost 
when it was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S, a director of O, was called by an investment company who explained 
they specialised in trading currencies and offered him the opportunity to invest with them. 
Mr O says hed been speaking to a friend of his about investing, so was interested in what 
the company had to say. He also looked at the companys website, which he says was very 
professional and gave details on different sizes of investment and rates of commission.
Mr O initially decided to invest a relatively small amount. But after seeing this initial 
investment perform well, receiving good customer service from the investment company, 
building up a good rapport with his contact there and successfully making a withdrawal from 
the investment, he decided to invest further. He made a number of payments over the 
following months to the investment company from a personal account, before making three 
payments from Os company account in April and May 2020 totalling £23,800. Unfortunately 
we now know the investment company was a scam.
The scam was uncovered when the investment companys website went down and they 
stopped answering their phones. O then reported the payments to HSBC as fraud and asked 
that they be refunded. HSBC investigated Os case and accepted that it could have done 
more to protect it. But it also said O could have taken more responsibility and conducted 
more checks. So it agreed to refund 50% of the money O lost. O wasnt satisfied with 
HSBCs response, so referred its complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Os complaint. They thought O had acted reasonably 
when making the payments, and so felt HSBC should refund all of the money it lost. HSBC 
disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one O fell victim to, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that a one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did O have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
HSBC has said that O didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments. 
And there are a number of things about the circumstances surrounding the payments which I 
think should have caused O some concern. Mr S was cold-called by the investment 
company, which I wouldnt expect a genuine investment company to do. Neither Mr S nor O 
received any paperwork or documents relating to the investments, which I would have 
expected a genuine investment company to provide. And it doesnt appear either Mr S or O 
did any significant checks into the investment company.
But O has sent us copies of some of the emails from the investment company, from both 
when the investment was initially set up with Mr S and when O was making payments. I think 
these emails look relatively professional and I cant see anything in them that ought to have 
given O significant concern that the investment company wasnt legitimate. And as Mr S and 
O had been communicating with the investment company for some time, receiving a number 
of updates and prompt answers to any questions they asked, I think this will have made the 
investment company seem genuine.
Mr S has said he checked the investment companys website, which he said was detailed, 
impressive and very professional. And hes also said he spoke with his contact from the 
investment company on the phone a number of times. And, as he used to live where the 
investment company said it was based, he had a number of conversations with his contact 
about that area. And I think this website, phone contact and conversations will have made 
the company seem genuine too.
Mr S was given log-in details for an online trading platform, where he was able to monitor his 
investments and the individual trades that were being made. The platform itself would have 
made the investment seem genuine. It appears some of these trades would make a loss, 
alongside those making a profit, which would have seemed like genuine trading activity. And 
I dont think the returns Mr S was shown to be making were so high as to be unrealistic.
Mr S was also able to successfully withdraw some of his apparent profits from the 
investment, and received these funds back into his personal account. And I think this will 
have further convinced him that the investment was genuine, as most people dont expect 
scammers to return any amount of money to you.
So I think there should have been some concerns over how the investment company initially 
got in touch with Mr S and the lack of documents it provided. But I think the amount of seemingly professional communication Mr S and O later had with the investment company, 
the information shown in the online trading platform and the successful withdrawal Mr S 
made mean that it was reasonable that O moved past these concerns. So I think that, at the 
time it made the payments, O did have a reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine.
Did HSBC meet its obligations under the CRM code?
The CRM code says that, where firms identify scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers.
HSBC has accepted that it could have done more to protect O. Due to the size of the 
payments O made, I think HSBC should have identified scam risks in relation to them. And 
as I havent seen any evidence that a warning was provided to O before the payments were 
made, I think HSBC failed in its obligations under the CRM code to provide effective 
warnings.
It therefore follows that O hasnt ignored any effective warnings in relation to the payments.
Overall then, I dont think HSBC has established that O made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief or that it ignored an effective warning. HSBC should therefore 
refund the money O lost in full, under the terms of the CRM code.
As HSBC has already refunded 50% of the money O lost, it should now refund the remaining 
50% - £11,900, plus 8% interest from the date it initially responded to Os claim until the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund O the remaining 50% (£11,900) of the money it lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund from the date it initially responded to Os claim 
until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman