DRN-2953588
The complaint
Mr G complains that by NewDay Ltd increasing his credit limit on his Debenhams card
meant the repayments were unaffordable for him.  
What happened
Mr G had two credit cards with NewDay  a Fluid credit card and a Debenhams credit card.
In November 2019, NewDay lowered the credit limit on Mr Gs Fluid card from £900 to £800
due to his credit score.
In January 2020 NewDay increased Mr Gs credit limit on his Debenhams card from £500 to
£1,500 due to his credit score increasing since November 2019. Mr G complained to
NewDay as he said this increase was not affordable to him and this caused him financial
difficulty.
NewDay did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. They said that they had carried out an affordability
assessment prior to increasing his credit limit, including looking at information they already
held on Mr G and they had checked information from credit reference agencies. NewDay
said that Mr G had not informed them previously about his financial difficulties and due to Mr
Gs concerns about affordability they were closing both his cards for further spending, but his
accounts would stay open for payments only. Mr G brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. He said Mr G was often close to his credit limit or
at times over his credit limit. He also said it was irresponsible that the increase to his
Debenhams card was three times the original credit limit, without any compelling evidence of
why the limit was increased. Our investigator said that NewDay should rework Mr Gs
Debenhams account to ensure that from January 2020 interest is only charged on the first
£500 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been
provided. They should remove any late payment or over limit fees from January 2020, the
payments Mr G made from January 2020 should then be deducted from the reworked
account balance. Any extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments and refunded
to Mr G with interest added at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if they were any,
from the date they were made to the date of settlement. Our investigator also said NewDay
should pay Mr G £100 for the trouble and upset caused by increasing his Debenhams credit
limit.
NewDay asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. In summary they said
they performed appropriate and proportionate checks that justified the credit limit increase.
They didnt think it was fair to give consideration to how the account was managed thereafter
as it isnt something they could have predicted and is something that is also completely
outside of their control. NewDay said the way in which the account was managed thereafter
when assessing this decision was unrealistic because they cannot and could never have
anticipated the way in which the account would be utilised or managed. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to make a provisional decision here as Im providing further information and this
will give both parties a chance to respond to what Ive provisionally decided.
Before agreeing to increase the credit available to Mr G, NewDay needed to make
proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for him.
Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect
lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of credit, the
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well the
consumer's personal circumstances.
In isolation the credit limit increase that NewDay offered to Mr G was proportionate
compared with his income. But there are other factors which persuade me that further
checks shouldve been made to ensure the credit was affordable and sustainable for him
and Ill explain these below.
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did prior to increasing the credit card limit on
his Debenhams account. They used information from credit agencies and saw that Mr G had
several active accounts/cards. And while he didnt have an active payday loan at the time
the credit limit way increased, NewDays data shows he had an active payday loan the
month before the credit limit increase. So, as Mr G took out a payday loan shortly before his
credit limit was increased on his Debenhams card, this could indicate that the credit limit
increase might not be affordable or sustainable for him in the longer term as he did not have
enough disposable income to meet his outgoings.
As NewDay have said, an active payday loan would not mean that a credit limit increase
wouldnt be suitable. But if they had asked Mr G for his outgoings as part of a proportionate
check where he already had several unsecured borrowings, then Im persuaded that he
would have mentioned this, and this would have been one reason to prompt them to do
further checks based on the repayment commitment for a payday loan. Mr G had taken out
another two unsecured loans since he was accepted originally for the Debenhams credit
card and therefore his outgoings wouldnt have been the same as when he originally gave
NewDay his income and expenditure prior to being accepted for the Debenhams card. I think
this should have prompted NewDay to conduct further proportionate checks especially as
they were trebling his credit limit.
Mr G hadnt had any defaults or County Court Judgments prior to the credit limit increase.
This would suggest that Mr G hadnt had any major issues in maintaining his payments up to
the point of the credit limit increase. But it also does not show the full picture here and I think
its that which was missing from the assessment. Im persuaded that it would have been
proportionate to investigate the unsecured debt Mr G had in more detail, along with his
outgoings prior to increasing his credit limit. I say this because if these checks had been
made then it would show that Mr G had taken on multiple pay day loans in the previous 12
months and two new unsecured loans since being accepted for his Debenhams credit card,
which may suggest that Mr G was using unsecured borrowing to meet his outgoings. Our
investigator had previously explained that Mr G was often making minimum payments to his
NewDay cards prior to the credit limit increase and was often using more than 90% of his
credit limit which may suggest that he would be unable to sustain further borrowing.
So I asked Mr G how he was managing to meet his outgoings around the time his credit limit
was increased. He said he was borrowing from any source he could  family, friends and
companies. This led me to ask for his bank statements so I could see the extent of his
borrowing. This is something that Im persuaded NewDay would have wanted to see if theyasked for details of his outgoings prior to the credit limit increase as his outgoings should
give rise to a concern that the credit limit increase would be unaffordable and unsustainable
for Mr G.
His December 2019 transactions show in the month before the credit limit increase was
offered, that Mr G had five income payments from credit companies totalling £740.82, a
payment of £1,500 with a reference of loan  which wouldnt have shown on his credit file as
the payment was from an individual, £700 paid in three instalments that month from another
individual which was not his partner. In the prior three months to his credit limit being
increased he was only in credit on his bank account for a total of three days  after he
borrowed money and was often £2000-£3000 overdrawn on his bank account. His October
and November 2019 transactions show a similar pattern with multiple loans being paid into
his bank account.
So Im satisfied from the information Ive seen here that Mr G could not afford his
commitments as he did not have any disposable income to do so and when NewDay
increased his credit card limit this also became unaffordable for Mr G and will have resulted
in trouble and upset for Mr G when he would need to keep borrowing from multiple sources
to meet his increased minimum payments. If NewDay had asked for details of his outgoings
as part of a proportionate check when trebling his credit limit on his Debenhams credit card
then Im persuaded they would have seen the increased payments would not have been
sustainable or affordable and Im satisfied they shouldnt have increased the credit limit for
someone who was clearly struggling to meet his commitments and borrowing from a number
of sources.
In order to put things right, I intend to ask NewDay to rework Mr Gs Debenhams account to
ensure that from January 2020 interest is only charged on the first £500 outstanding balance
to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. NewDay
should remove any late payment or over limit fees from January 2020 and the payments Mr
G made from January 2020 should then be deducted from the reworked account balance.
Any extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr G with
interest added at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if there were any, from the date
they were made to the date of settlement. I also intend to ask NewDay to pay Mr G £100 for
the trouble and upset caused by increasing his Debenhams credit limit.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Mr G accepted the provisional decision. NewDay did not accept the provisional 
decision and made a number of points. In summary they said that they do not obtain 
evidence of income and expenditure or bank statements from the customer as they are not 
required to do so and this is not an industry standard as they follow the rules in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook. They also said payday lending would not 
be a sole reason to prevent them from increasing a credit limit and said that they would have 
no way of knowing that Mr G was borrowing money to meet his financial commitments. 
NewDay also referred me to a different decision that an Ombudsman made for a different 
customer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what NewDay have said regarding them not requiring evidence of income 
and expenditure or bank statements from the customer as they are not required to do so as 
they follow the rules in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision, Mr G had an active payday loan the month before the credit limit increase. This could indicate that the credit limit increase might not be affordable 
or sustainable for him in the longer term as he may not have enough disposable income to 
meet his outgoings. 
In addition, Mr G had taken on multiple pay day loans in the previous 12 months and two 
new unsecured loans since being accepted for his Debenhams credit card, which may 
suggest that Mr G was using unsecured borrowing to meet his outgoings. As a result of the 
unsecured borrowing, his outgoings wouldnt have been the same as when he originally 
gave NewDay his income and expenditure prior to being accepted for the Debenhams card.
So Im persuaded it would be a proportionate check for NewDay to make additional checks 
on Mr Gs financial situation. This information can be from Mr G himself. CONC 5.2A.7 
states:
A firm must base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient information:
(1) Of which it is aware at the time the creditworthiness assessment is carried out;
(2) Obtained, where appropriate from the customer.
So Im persuaded that if Newday obtained details of Mr Gs outgoings as part of a 
proportionate check, based on the information they had obtained from credit reference 
agencies then they would have seen the increased payments as a result of increasing his 
credit limit would not have been sustainable or affordable and Im satisfied they shouldnt 
have increased the credit limit for someone who was clearly struggling to meet his 
commitments and borrowing from a number of sources.
Ive also considered what NewDay have said regarding payday lending would not be a sole 
reason to prevent them from increasing a credit limit and said that they would have no way 
of knowing that Mr G was borrowing money to meet his financial commitments. But as I 
mentioned in my provisional decision:
As NewDay have said, an active payday loan would not mean that a credit limit increase
wouldnt be suitable. But if they had asked Mr G for his outgoings as part of a proportionate
check where he already had several unsecured borrowings, then Im persuaded that he
would have mentioned this, and this would have been one reason to prompt them to do
further checks based on the repayment commitment for a payday loan. Mr G had taken out
another two unsecured loans since he was accepted originally for the Debenhams credit
card and therefore his outgoings wouldnt have been the same as when he originally gave
NewDay his income and expenditure prior to being accepted for the Debenhams card. I think
this should have prompted NewDay to conduct further proportionate checks especially as
they were trebling his credit limit.
NewDay referred me to another decision from a different Ombudsman regarding a different 
customer. I have noted this. But the individual circumstances of that complaint are different 
to the individual circumstances of this complaint and therefore it is not fair to apply the same 
outcome to Mr Gs complaint. My review is based on the facts of this individual case. 
In summary, NewDays response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know NewDay will be 
disappointed with the decision, but I hope they understand my reasons.
Putting things rightIn my provisional decision I said I intended to ask NewDay to rework Mr Gs Debenhams 
account to ensure that from January 2020 interest is only charged on the first £500 
outstanding balance to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been 
provided. NewDay should remove any late payment or over limit fees from January 2020 
and the payments Mr G made from January 2020 should then be deducted from the 
reworked account balance. Any extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments and 
refunded to Mr G with interest added at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if there 
were any, from the date they were made to the date of settlement. I also intend to ask 
NewDay to pay Mr G £100 for the trouble and upset caused by increasing his Debenhams 
credit limit. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd should:
Rework Mr Gs Debenhams account to ensure that from January 2020 interest is only 
charged on the first £500 outstanding balance to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided; 
NewDay Ltd should remove any late payment or over limit fees from January 2020 and the 
payments Mr G made from January 2020 should then be deducted from the reworked 
account balance; 
Any extra that was paid should be treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr G with 
interest added at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if there were any, from the date 
they were made to the date of settlement; 
NewDay Ltd should pay Mr G £100 for the trouble and upset caused by increasing his 
Debenhams credit limit.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman