DRN-2683527
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was mis-sold a policy by BIG Warranties Ltd (BIG) for appliance 
insurance and subsequently thought his settlement was unfair.
What happened
Mr W was sold an insurance policy for his range cooker. He said the cooker had a 
replacement cost of £4,000.  Mr W said when he was sold the policy, the call handler had 
advised him if BIG couldnt fix his cooker, it would replace it on a like for like basis.
Mr W said that BIG came to repair his cooker after it had broken down, but he said it 
deemed his cooker to be beyond repair. So, Mr W made a claim on his appliance policy. BIG 
offered a cash settlement, but Mr W rejected it and said BIG should have replaced his 
cooker in line with his understanding of the policy and per the conversation he had when he 
was sold the policy. He felt hed been mis-sold the policy.
BIG said it hadnt mis-sold the policy to Mr W and said it had settled his claim fairly and in 
line with the policy terms. BIG said as the parts required to fix the cooker had been 
discontinued the cooker was beyond repair. It said Mr W was made aware of a £500 limit on 
the policy on the sales call and he was advised that any replacement of appliances would be 
on a like for like or similar model basis. It said this was also set out in the terms and 
conditions Mr W received.
BIG explained the way in which it settles claims when an appliance is beyond repair. It said 
its approach is common across the industry. It explained how it works out the market value 
of the cooker by depreciating it at 20% per annum. Mr Ws cooker was over 11 years old and 
his policy limit was £500, so this resulted in a very small market value. BIG capped the 
market value at 125% of Mr Ws annual premium which slightly increased his settlement to 
£157.68.
When Mr W rejected the offer, BIG waived the policy limit as a gesture of goodwill. This 
resulted in it offering a settlement around £120 higher. Mr W also rejected this offer.
Our investigator recommended not to uphold the complaint as he didnt think the policy had 
been mis-sold. He said he didnt think the sales call was misleading and thought BIG had 
fairly settled the claim in line with its terms and conditions. Mr W didnt accept this view, as 
he still thought he had been mis-sold the policy, so he asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the sales call carefully and checked the terms and conditions. I have 
decided that I cant uphold this complaint. I know Mr W will be disappointed by this, but I will 
explain why I have reached this conclusion.
Mr W has said he was mis-sold the policy. However, in his complaint he has asked for BIG 
to honour the initial promise on his policy and he goes onto say he wants his range cooker 
replaced on a like for like basis. Given that he asked for this remedy, it is clear he 
understands that his cooker should be replaced with a similar one. If he was to be provided 
with a better model of cooker or newer cooker, Mr W wouldnt be receiving a like for like 
replacement, it would be an upgrade. So, I think Mr W understood what policy was sold to 
him. I dont think he has been mis-sold the policy.
Mr W has put forward the call recording as key evidence he was mis-sold the policy. So, I 
have listened to this. I havent heard anything on the recorded call that makes me think Mr W 
was misled, the call handler acted professionally and outlined the main characteristics of the 
policy he was buying. The description in my opinion was consistent with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Mr W was advised if his cooker couldnt be repaired it will be 
replaced free of charge..it will be like for like or for a similar model.
When BIG came to look for replacements for the cooker, it said it wasnt possible to replace 
it on a like for like or similar basis due to its age. Given, that the parts for this cooker are 
discontinued, I think BIG have been reasonable in coming to this conclusion. I dont think it 
wouldve been possible for BIG to source a like for like equivalent or similar model for a 
cooker of that age. I also dont think its reasonable to expect BIG to replace the old cooker 
with something much newer and upgraded without a contribution from Mr W, especially 
given Mr W had a £500 policy limit that he was made aware of on the sales call.
As the cooker couldnt be replaced on a like for like basis, BIG have then gone ahead and 
arranged settlement of the claim in line with their documented terms and conditions. Mr W 
was sent these documents when he took out the policy. He was given 21 days to check his 
policy with the option to cancel it for free if there was anything that he didnt like. As he didnt 
cancel the policy, I think its reasonable to assume he was happy with it, so its right that hes 
bound by the terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions state:
In the event that Your Equipment cannot be repaired We will, offer You a settlement 
in the form of vouchers or cash in line with the current market value of Your 
Equipment based on the age of the Equipment.
I have looked at how BIG have derived the market value of Mr Ws cooker to make sure the 
settlement he was offered was fair. Unfortunately, due to the age of Mr Ws cooker it didnt 
have very much market value. I dont think thats unexpected. BIG explained to Mr W clearly 
how it derived the market value. It has used a method of calculating the market value that is 
consistent with the rest of the industry. I know Mr W said the replacement cost of his cooker 
was £4,000, but I think its more likely this valuation is to replace it with a brand new cooker. 
BIG has offered Mr W a higher settlement than its terms and conditions dictate, so I cant 
say it has been unfair to Mr W.
I might have considered the policy to have been mis-sold if Mr W was never going to receive 
value from the policy, but I cant say this is true. The policy covered repair or breakdown of 
the appliance following breakdown or accidental damage. There are likely to be scenarios 
where the appliance could have been repaired. Also, on this occasion BIG did offer to settle 
Mr W £274.88 as his appliance was deemed beyond repair. 
In summary, I cant uphold this complaint. I havent seen any evidence to show Mr W was 
mis-sold his policy and I think BIG have acted fairly in arranging a settlement slightly better 
than it needed to.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require BIG Warranties Ltd to do 
anything more. Mr W can still accept the settlement offered by BIG. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman