DRN-3362572
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs M have complained about the index-linked valuation Barclays Bank UK PLC 
used in May 2020 when they wanted to apply for a new rate on their existing mortgage. They 
say the index-linked valuation figure was lower than the true value of the property, and the 
lower valuation figure meant they werent eligible for the product they wanted to apply for.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022, the findings of which said:
Barclays has accepted it could have done better here and I agree. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that its failings were the sole cause of Mr N and Mrs M missing out on 
the lower interest rate with H. And to award compensation for that, I need to be satisfied 
that  on balance  it is more likely than not that Mr N and Mrs M could have obtained the 
lower rate had Barclays been more clear about the fact the valuation couldnt be 
appealed unless significant structural improvements had been made to the property that 
had increased the square footage.
Barclays doesnt carry out revaluations for product switches and doesnt allow the 
index-linked valuation to be appealed unless there have been changes to the property as 
Ive detailed above. Ive considered very carefully whether I think that policy is unfair and 
led to Mr N and Mrs M being treated differently to other customers and I dont think it is or 
that it did. Barclays doesnt allow appeals to the index-linked valuation for any customers 
that are applying for a rate switch, so it didnt treat Mr N and Mrs M any differently there 
and I dont think that decision is unfair. Barclays can decide its policies, and Im satisfied 
that policy has been applied correctly here. So there are no grounds for me to say that 
Barclays should have allowed a valuation appeal and/or allowed Mr N and Mrs M to take 
the lower rate that they werent eligible for (due to the LTV).
Mr N and Mrs M have said that Barclays couldnt give them or their broker a documented 
response of how the index-linked valuation was calculated. But Barclays didnt need to. 
Mr N and Mrs M applied through an independent broker, so it was the brokers 
responsibility to explain this to Mr N and Mrs M  not Barclays. It would be unusual for a 
broker to not understand what an index-linked valuation was and the possible information 
that would feed into that as theyre not at all unusual in the industry. So I cant see what 
the broker would have needed from Barclays in that respect that could have moved things 
forward.
I can only see two instances where Barclays misled Mr N and Mrs M (and/or their broker) 
into thinking a revaluation was possible, without the property having been extended. 
Theres mention in the Barclays contact notes that the 15 May message which was sent 
to the broker saying Mr N and Mrs M werent eligible for the rate said Or if you feel the 
property is undervalued you can challenge the valuation by contacting
But Mr N and Mrs M confirmed to us that the broker contacted Barclays at that time but 
was told an appeal wasnt possible. They said, on their complaint form they completed for 
our service, My broker had already requested for a re-valuation when he first applied for 
the rate switch back in early May and was declined at the time.
As their broker didnt apply until 14 May, then this must be the contact that Mr N and 
Mrs M are referring to. For that reason, I cant say that they were caused any detriment at 
this time as their broker was immediately told that a revaluation wasnt possible, so they 
had the correct information.
The only other time I can see on file that Mr N and Mrs M were told that a valuation 
appeal was possible was in the letter of response to their complaint dated 16 June 2020. 
Their broker contacted Barclays to request an appeal on 24 June and was told  the 
same day  that it wasnt possible unless the property had been extended. From this is 
seems Barclays had led Mr N and Mrs M to believe  for a period of 8 days  that they 
could possibly proceed with Barclays via a valuation appeal.
I can see from the brokers notes that Mrs M said they wanted to apply elsewhere on 
27 June, and the lower rate with H was still available until 13 July. I fully understand why 
Mr N and Mrs M opted to apply to a different lender first as it had a lower interest rate 
product. But unfortunately that application took some time and was then declined, by 
which time H had changed its products. That decline came on 29 July (16 days after H 
had withdrawn the lower rate), and the application was made to H on 22 August (40 days 
after H had withdrawn the lower rate). So the 8 day period that Ive concluded Barclays 
misled Mr N and Mrs M for (that is between 16 June and 24 June) made no difference to 
whether or not the lower rate could have been obtained with H.
Barclays issued its response to the complaint well within the time frame it is allowed 
under the regulators rules, and in any event Mr N and Mrs M (and their broker) had been 
told on more than one occasion already by then that a revaluation wasnt possible. Whilst 
Mr N and Mrs M had the right to complain about that, I cant hold Barclays liable for any 
time lost whilst it investigated and responded to the complaint as there was nothing 
stopping Mr N and Mrs M using that time to investigate other options. It was possible a 
complaint could have overturned what theyd been told, but equally it was possible (and it 
could be argued likely, bearing in mind this was Barclays policy) that the outcome would 
still be that they werent eligible for the lower rate with Barclays.
The brokers notes state the following:
26 May furtehr rsearch sent to [Mrs M]  see attached  best option is press 
ahead with higher rate on correct index val  await her go ahead.
27 May [Mrs M] beliieves Barclays will change valuation if she rings them  she is 
now doing so  have told her that BDM [Barclays business development 
manager] has confirmed nothing can be done
It seems clear from these that the broker told Mrs M that the valuation would not be 
changed on 27 May, so whilst she and Mr N could complain about that I cant hold 
Barclays liable for their decision to not then apply to another lender until 3 July.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that even if Barclays hadnt misled Mr N and 
Mrs M  in its complaint response letter  into thinking (for a period of 8 days) that a 
revaluation was possible then they still wouldnt have obtained the lower interest rate with 
H due to the various other delays (which werent due to Barclays). For that reason there 
are no grounds for me to order Barclays to cover the difference in interest rate that Mr N 
and Mrs M obtained with H.That said, Barclays could have made things more clear as its response letter to the 
complaint does imply a revaluation was possible (as it didnt include the criteria that it was 
only an option if the property had been extended). Barclays has agreed to pay £100 for 
that error and having considered everything Im satisfied that it is a fair award. The reason 
why the award isnt higher is that the incorrect information was corrected 8 days later, and 
having considered all the correspondence between the broker and Barclays (and Mr N 
and Mrs M and Barclays) I cant see that Barclays caused any undue delays here. It gave 
the right answer at the start, and whilst Mr N and Mrs M had the right to query  and then 
complain about  that, I cant hold Barclays liable for the delays those queries and 
complaint caused as it responded well inside the timeframes it is required to investigate 
complaints within.
Barclays had nothing further to add. Mr N and Mrs M didnt accept my provisional decision. 
They said, in summary:
The back and forth with the broker and Barclays took at least three to four weeks, 
which delayed things at a critical time of interest rates going up.
Barclays let Mrs M believe that if she complained shed be able to achieve a 
revaluation, and it never gave a reason why it wouldnt do one.
They feel it was done deliberately to force them onto a more expensive deal.
The way Barclays responded to their broker was dismissive of Mr N and Mrs M as 
existing customers, and even the broker was at a loss with the appalling tone used.
Its not good enough for this service to say it is Barclays policy to not offer 
revaluations; what about their rights as existing customers?
Theyd like to know how the amount of £100 compensation was reached.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so - and having considered Mr N and Mrs Ms recent submissions and the 
entire file afresh - I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
Whilst I agree there was back and forth with the broker and Barclays, as I explained in my 
provisional decision Mr N and Mrs M have told us that their broker was told from the start 
that a revaluation couldnt be carried out. It was Mr N and Mrs M  and their brokers  
choice to keep corresponding on that point, so I cant hold Barclays liable for the back and 
forth when the correct information was given from the start.
Having considered the full file, I cant see that Barclays led Mrs M to believe that if she 
complained a revaluation would be undertaken. In fact Mr N and Mrs Ms brokers notes 
indicate Mrs M was told this wouldnt happen (on 27 May), saying [Mrs M] beliieves 
Barclays will change valuation if she rings them  she is now doing so  have told her that 
BDM [Barclays business development manager] has confirmed nothing can be done
Barclays doesnt offer revaluations (unless a property has been extended) for existing 
customers who want to change to a new preferential interest rate. Whilst Mr N and Mrs M 
say it isnt good enough for this service to say that and asked about their rights, Barclays is 
allowed to set its own policies. As I explained in my provisional decision, Barclays has the 
same policy for all its customers, so it didnt treat Mr N and Mrs M any differently to other 
customers. Barclays had no control over when Mr N and Mrs M applied for the new rate, nor 
how long Mr N and Mrs M then took to successfully apply for another mortgage elsewhere. 
Barclays allows applications for a new rate to be submitted up to 90 days before the current rate ends, so that would allow time for a remortgage to be completed to another lender (if 
required) even with potential delays due to the pandemic. 
I understand Mr N and Mrs M are unhappy about the tone of the contact between Barclays 
and their broker, but the emails were sent to the broker in answer to direct questions.
In the first email, the broker explained the background and asked what happens next in 
challenging the valuation figure. Barclays responded saying there was no way of challenging 
it unless the property had been extended. It said it had also been raised as a complaint 
without success, and that there was nowhere else to take this Im afraid.
The broker responded I dont think she will believe me since the letter says I can request a 
re-valuation through your broker  if that is the case, can we have a re-worded letter sent to 
her?
To which Barclays confirmed that Mrs M would need to go back to the complaints team 
directly, saying there was a contact number and reference on the letter.
Ive considered the exchange and I dont think that it is dismissive of Mr N and Mrs M, 
Barclays simply (correctly) answered the questions the broker had asked. There was 
nowhere else that Barclays could go with it as it didnt do revaluations for rate change 
applications, and if Mr N and Mrs M wanted an amendment to the complaint response letter 
then theyd need to discuss that with the complaints team. It is always difficult when there is 
a fairly short exchange in writing to understand the tone of that  what one person finds rude 
another may find completely acceptable. I acknowledge that Mr N and Mrs M feel the tone 
was dismissive, and whilst I empathise with their feelings about it, thats not enough for me 
to uphold this part of their complaint and award compensation.
Finally, Mr N and Mrs M say theyd like to know how the amount of £100 compensation was 
reached as theyd asked that before but never got an answer.
In his response to Mr N and Mrs M in December 2021 our investigator explained:
My recommendation of compensation for their poor service relates to the way they dealt 
with your original valuation request. This took place of a relatively short period of time 
and, although the service was poor, Barclays ultimately followed their own policy and so 
didn't do anything wrong in that regard.
And in my provisional decision I said:
That said, Barclays could have made things more clear as its response letter to the 
complaint does imply a revaluation was possible (as it didnt include the criteria that it was 
only an option if the property had been extended). Barclays has agreed to pay £100 for 
that error and having considered everything Im satisfied that it is a fair award. The reason 
why the award isnt higher is that the incorrect information was corrected 8 days later, and 
having considered all the correspondence between the broker and Barclays (and Mr N 
and Mrs M and Barclays) I cant see that Barclays caused any undue delays here. It gave 
the right answer at the start, and whilst Mr N and Mrs M had the right to query  and then 
complain about  that, I cant hold Barclays liable for the delays those queries and 
complaint caused as it responded well inside the timeframes it is required to investigate 
complaints within.
The award of compensation for inconvenience is fairly subjective  theres no exact scale as 
it were. We have some fairly broad bandings, which we publish on our website at www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience. 
The first band is described as An apology  or small monetary amount and that says:
Typically, an apology or small monetary award of less than £100 will fairly compensate a 
one-off incident or occurrence  such as a small administrative error or a short delay. An 
apology is usually enough to remedy these types of mistakes, as long as they cause 
minimal impact and are put right quickly.
Using financial services wont always be totally hassle free and we wouldnt award for 
things that arent more serious than the normal nuisances of everyday life. So just 
because theres been a mistake it doesnt necessarily follow that we would always award 
compensation  especially when the impact is minimal.
The second band is An award  of up to £300 and that says:
If an error has caused the consumer more than the levels of frustration and annoyance 
you might reasonably expect from day-to-day life, and the impact has been more than just 
minimal, then an apology wont be enough to remedy the mistake.
An award between £100 and £300 might be fair where there have been repeated small 
errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. These typically 
result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either some distress, 
inconvenience, disappointment or loss of expectation.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the only part of this complaint that Ive upheld is 
that Barclays misled Mr N and Mrs M for a period of eight days into thinking a revaluation 
was possible.
Arguably that could fit within either banding, but if it did fall within the second banding it 
would be right at the lower end of it. Thats because the misinformation was corrected within 
eight days, and actually the correct information had already been given on more than one 
occasion previously. The error that was made (the misinformation for a period of eight days) 
didnt require a reasonable effort to sort out as it was quickly corrected when the broker 
queried it. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £100 compensation
to Mr N and Mrs M. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr N and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman