DRN-2858214
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) didnt notify them of a 
significant change in the terms and conditions of their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F hold a travel insurance policy through a bank account with The Co-op. But 
The Co-op isnt the insurer, so its not responsible for claims or any changes to the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs F booked a trip to France in July 2020. But restrictions were imposed in France 
due to the Covid-19 global pandemic in August 2020, and the Foreign & Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. When Mr and Mrs F got in touch 
with their insurer, they were told that they wouldnt be covered for the trip if they travelled, 
and any cancellation claims relating to Covid-19 wouldnt be covered either. 
Mr and Mrs F cancelled their trip, and they want The Co-op to pay for costs they couldnt get 
refunded elsewhere. They say The Co-op shouldve notified them of the significant change in 
the terms and conditions of their policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that a complaint about Mr and 
Mrs Fs claim being declined should be made to the insurer, as this wasnt The Co-ops 
responsibility. But our investigator thought The Co-op had done enough because it had sent 
Mr F emails to explain that the policy didnt cover cancellation claims due to Covid-19 for 
trips booked after 14 March 2020. This information was also available on The Co-ops 
website.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with our investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I wont be able to consider if Mr and Mrs Fs claim under their travel insurance policy 
was fairly declined under this complaint, or how the policy terms should be interpreted. This 
is because claims and policy terms are the responsibility of the insurer. 
Having considered everything, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the 
investigator. Im satisfied The Co-op has shown that it sent Mr F an email which explained 
that cancellation claims due to Covid-19 for trips booked after 14 March 2020 werent 
covered. Im also satisfied that this information was available on The Co-ops website.
Taking everything into account, I think The Co-op has acted fairly and reasonably. I dont 
think theres anything else it needed to do in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman