DRN-2864353
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain AXA Insurance UK Plc have offered an unfair settlement to their
home insurance claim.
All references to AXA also include its agents.
 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail
here. The following is a summary of the events that led to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs N took out the policy in 2018
Mr and Mrs Ns home is insured, but also includes an annex they rent out as a 
holiday home
In February 2020, the annex was damaged during a storm and Mr and Mrs N initiated
a claim with AXA
After inspecting the annex, AXA concluded Mr and Mrs N were underinsured by 72%
for cover relating to outbuildings  which includes the annex
Under the terms and conditions of the policy. AXA said it would settle the claim
proportionately to the amount Mr and Mrs N was underinsured
Mr and Mrs N disputed the figure offered by AXA, and appointed their own surveyor
Based on the figure provided by Mr and Mrs Ns surveyor, they say they were only
underinsured by 34%
Mr and Mrs N said they previously consulted their own surveyor regarding costs of
rebuilding the main property, and the amount of outbuildings cover needed when
taking out the policy
Our investigator recommended Mr and Mrs Ns complaint be upheld. He said Mr and Mrs N
had taken reasonable steps to ensure the figure they gave was correct when taking out the
policy. So he didnt think it was fair for AXA to apply the clause.
He recommended AXA pay the full claim, up to the level of cover and refund the cost of the
surveyors report incurred by Mr and Mrs N.
AXA didnt agree with our investigator. It said the information set out when the policy was
taken out would have given Mr and Mrs N clear guidance on how to correctly calculate the
amount of cover they needed.
AXA also disagreed with accuracy of the information provided by Mr and Mrs Ns surveyor. It
said the figure provided was for a new build and didnt consider the listed status of the
property.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 28 May 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen screenshots of the questions Mr and Mrs N would have seen on screen when
taking out the policy.
From looking at the information available, Im satisfied AXA provided clear guidance on how
Mr and Mrs N can give accurate information on rebuild costs. The screen shot sets out
options for the main building and the outbuildings. And there is information clarifying how a
customer can calculate costs  such as a recent surveyors report or mortgage valuation or
referring to the calculator on the Chartered Institute of Surveyors website.
Mr and Mrs N confirmed they didnt do any of the above but did seek advice from their own
surveyor on the cost of rebuilding the outbuildings  which was provided to them verbally.
Considering the rebuild costs quoted by both parties differs significantly to the amount
insured, Im satisfied the question asked was answered incorrectly by Mr and Mrs N. As AXA
have confirmed this would have impacted the premium they would have charged, this could
be classed as a qualifying misrepresentation. However, considering the circumstances I
dont think Mr and Mrs N deliberately intended to provide false or misleading information to
AXA.
The clause
AXA are relying on a clause in the policy which says if a customer is underinsured, any claim
that is settled will be reduced in proportion depending on how underinsured they are,
regardless of the amount of the claim.
Looking at the relevant law, I think The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) would apply here and takes precedence over the
clause. However, in this instance, the remedy would be similar given Mr and Mrs N made a
qualifying misrepresentation and AXA has confirmed it would have charged more for the
policy. As a claim has been made, the appropriate remedy under CIDRA would be for AXA
to make a proportionate settlement to Mr and Mrs N.
The settlement
The main area of dispute lies in the figures provided regarding the rebuild of the outbuildings
at the property, and therefore the percentage to be paid out on the claim.
AXA have provided a breakdown of the rebuild costs for each area considered outbuildings
to the property. Mr and Mrs N disputed this, so obtained a quote from a surveying company.
Mr and Mrs Ns quote doesnt contain detail of the author, or their relevant qualifications, but
does provide a breakdown of the costs of rebuilding the outbuilding  which it estimated to
be around £113,000.
However, the report doesnt include the total costs of all outbuildings defined in the policy.
The report also says the rates for building work reflects standard construction  which
doesnt appear to recognise the grade 2 listed status of the property (which is set out in thepolicy certificate). I can see there are also several exclusions from costing listed at the
bottom of the report.
So Im not persuaded the costing provided in the report is an accurate reflection of the total
rebuild cost of outbuildings defined in the policy.
AXAs report does appear to consider the listed status of the property and as such I think, its
more likely than not the value it provides is an accurate reflect of the rebuilding costs. In light
of this, Im not intending to ask them to change this.
So for the reasons Ive set out above I think AXAs proposal to settle the claim in the way it
has offered is reasonable.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs N didnt agree with my provisional findings. They reiterated that the figures they 
gave when they took the policy had been provided by a qualified surveyor who deals with 
grade 2 listed properties. They also provided additional points for me to consider including:
The outbuilding is not grade 2 listed, only the main house, so Mr and Mrs N said the 
rebuild cost would be much lower
AXA didnt carry out a survey of the outbuilding or the house. Mr and Mrs N said the 
representative from AXA who did attend didnt have any knowledge of the local area 
or property rates, and their valuation was based on a guess
I put Mr and Mrs Ns comments regarding the question of the listed status of the building to 
AXA.  AXA said the report provided by Mr and Mrs N doesnt reflect the listed status of the 
property  and that their stance remained the same.
I will now consider all information provided by both parties in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs N said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my 
reasoning.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs N have reiterated the reason they gave the value they did at the 
time the policy was taken out. However, for the reasons set out in my provisional findings I 
remain satisfied the claim should be settled in line with the remedies available under the 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Mr and Mrs N have argued the outbuilding doesnt have listed status and therefore the 
rebuild value would be lower. The listed status of a main property would usually mean similar 
considerations would need to be given to any outbuildings as these would need to be in 
keeping with the main property. I havent seen any information that persuades me the 
outbuilding is not subject to these or similar considerations. 
Although the person who attended the site on behalf of AXA wasnt a surveyor, a surveyor 
did issue a report using information taken during AXAs visit to the property.  From looking at 
all the information available to me, and for the same reasons as set out in my provisional 
findings I think its more likely than not the value AXA provided is an accurate reflection of the rebuilding costs. Considering this, Im not intending to ask them to change this.
Putting things right
AXA should settle the claim in how Ive set out in my provisional findings 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should 
settle things in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman