DRN-3197605
The complaint
A, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc registered a default and closed its 
accounts even though it could pay borrowing back.
What happened
A had a business loan from HSBC. It says it didnt receive a default notice following missed 
payments in October 2019. And that the director had been discussing the plans for 
repayment of the loan and had funds to cover arrears. It also says it was told that no default 
would be registered against it when it complained.
HSBC said it hadnt made any mistake. It said that the notice had been sent even if A hadnt 
received it. And its relationship manager had spoken to the director about the missed 
payments and the potential consequences. HSBC said that when it wrote to the director in 
July 2020 about the default it had said nothing would be registered against him. But that this 
hadnt meant that there would be no adverse information reported against A.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She thought that HSBC had 
responded fairly. A had provided call logs showing that it spoke to the relationship manager 
on 19 October 2019. This was after the date of a default notice on 7 October 2019. So, she 
was satisfied that A would have been aware of the position. There was no evidence to 
support any arrangement not to mark a default. A hadnt been making payments as they 
were due. While A had shown it had funds in its current account by December 2019, these 
hadnt been available before then. A hadnt made payments as they fell due and so HSBC 
was entitled to take the actions it had with As accounts. HSBC had told the director he 
wouldnt have a default against his name and while she knew hed understood that to apply 
to A too, that wasnt what had been stated.
A didnt agree. It said that the default notice which it still hadnt received was issued after 
only one missed payment. It said that there was enough money on 27 December 2019 for 
the loan payment and more funds ready to be transferred to the current account. A said that 
we hadnt addressed the closure of the business account. And it provided proof that HSBC 
admitted this isnt typical of their service. HSBC only referred in its letters to the relationship 
manager issuing a demand and not a default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the loan account statements for A. Monthly payments of £561.47 were due. 
The payment for June 2019 was reversed and remained in arrears. Payments for July and 
August 2019 were made. And the one for September 2019 was made and reversed. This 
was also the position in October 2019 when the payment due was reversed. The direct debit 
mandate on the account was then cancelled which I understand to be because of the 
repeated reversals. The payment due in November 2019 wasnt made leaving by then four 
payments in arrears. The balance was transferred for recovery on 20 December 2019 and 
no further interest applied. I understand no further loan repayments were made until after a 
plan had been agreed in September 2020 for the balance to be cleared in three instalments.
A notice of default dated 7 October 2019 was issued and I have seen a copy of this. It gave 
A 14 days to pay the then two months of arrears on the account. A didnt do so and as I said 
didnt make further payments due. HSBC says it also issued a final demand, but it isnt able 
to provide a copy. It refers to it in correspondence as A says 
I havent seen any evidence of any arrangement made by A about the missed payments at 
the time. There is a file note from February 2020 saying that A was waiting for the sale of a 
property to repay the money. I appreciate that on 24 December 2019 the director of A 
arranged for money to be credited to the current account giving a credit balance of just over 
£1,342. And that this was in advance of the typical monthly payment date of 27 December 
2019. But by then as I set out there were already four payments in arrears and the action on 
the loan had been taken. As our investigator says the only evidence A provides of contact 
with the relationship manager is a connected call on 18 October 2019. I cant see any 
evidence that A would then have been told otherwise than to make up the arrears in line with 
the notice that had been sent. I appreciate the director refers to the relationship manager 
being away at times, but I dont see that would stop him discussing the position with HSBC.
A is also unhappy that the current account was closed. This would typically happen when 
borrowing defaulted and was sent for recovery. I understand that there had still been a credit 
balance on the account which delayed closure. A had been told it would be sent this money 
and this didnt happen. A refers to HSBCs letter of 2 March 2020 that apologised for the 
service. That was about the delay in the account balance of £162.72 being sent and A was 
paid £100 in compensation for this.
Ive reviewed the correspondence with the director of A about a default. HSBC only ever said 
that there would be no default against him. I can understand how this could have been 
misinterpreted but I dont find that HSBC made a mistake.
assessment
I think A was reasonably aware of the consequences of not making payments to its loan as 
they fell due. It didnt do so. I cant account for why a default notice wasnt received by A as it 
appears to have been correctly sent. But there was no payment arrangement in place then. 
A hasnt shown that it had funds to clear all arrears. And the loan was transferred to recovery 
before credits A refers to making to the current account. I can understand the implications of 
a default for A and that A intended to repay the money. But I dont have a basis to find that it 
was unreasonable for HSBC to apply this and close all accounts having considered the full 
circumstances as I set out above. I can appreciate how disappointed the director of A will be 
by my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman