DRN-2414598
The complaint
Mr E complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Billing Finance Ltd (Billing Finance).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Billing Finance, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr E. The car here 
was around eight years old and had completed about 126,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect quite a lot of wear and tear to be present. Ive also noted 
evidence collected by the investigator on market valuations at the time the car was supplied. 
Its clear the car was at the lower end of valuations. I think a reasonable person would 
therefore expect it to have more wear and tear than normal for a car of this age and mileage.
the differential 
The differential on the car failed very shortly after Mr E took receipt of it. I think its therefore 
very likely it was failing at the point the car was supplied to him. The dealership replaced the 
differential under warranty at no cost to Mr E and I dont think they were unfair when 
suggesting a refurbished differential should be provided. The car was, after all, a used 
example with considerable mileage on the clock. 
Whilst Mr E didnt pay a finance instalment during that month I think Billing Finance should 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused by this failure and I think £100 
would be sufficient in the circumstances.
the engine failure  
The engine failed on this car after about 138,500 miles. 
Mr E had completed about 13,000 miles in the car by that time and I am not persuaded there 
is therefore sufficient evidence the engine was failing when he took receipt of the car. I think 
there would have been signs of failure beforehand and I think its unlikely, having considered 
what the independent engineer has said about engine failures due to lack of coolant, that the 
engine would have failed much sooner.
Ive also considered whether the car could be considered not of satisfactory quality because 
it hasnt proven to be suitably durable. But, I dont think it would be unusual for a cars 
engine to fail after almost 140,000 miles.
the accident damage
There are conflicting views here. The garage Mr E took the car to (Ill call them H) think the 
accident damage is recent, but the independent inspector doesnt.
Im not persuaded the accident damage was present before the car was supplied to Mr E. H 
say the car is not fit for the road and yet the car has passed two MOTs since Mr E took 
receipt of it and a master service was completed on it in which the accident damage wasnt 
identified. I think its likely that some of the accident damage would have come to light if it 
had been there when the car was supplied to Mr E, in the summer of 2018.
So, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate the car was in an accident 
before it was supplied to Mr E. It follows that, even if I were to accept the accident damage 
had created issues that led to the engine failure, I would not think that was Billing Finances 
responsibility.
other faults
Billing Finance are only responsible for the quality of the car at the point of supply. I can see 
that hes had problems with some other components i.e. coil springs and brake pads, but 
having reviewed all the invoices provided for work I think these issues are most likely to be 
due to wear and tear and could be expected on a vehicle of this age and mileage. So, I dont 
think Billing Finance need to take any action about them.
Putting things right
Billing Finance should pay Mr E £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
caused when the differential failed. But Im not asking them to take any further action.  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Billing Finance to 
pay Mr E £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman