DRN-3539417
The complaint and what happened
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse in excess of £27,000 he lost when he 
fell victim to a scam. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He was satisfied HSBC ought to have intervened 
when Mr B made his fifth payment towards the scam, as it was unusual and uncharacteristic 
for the account. He asked it to reimburse losses from that point. However, he also found Mr 
B was partly responsible for his loss as he didnt carry out sufficient due diligence before 
deciding to invest and so reduced compensation by 20%.
Mr B agreed the outcome. Although it had a query regarding which transaction the 
investigator thought HSBC ought to have intervened on, which was responded to, HSBC 
hasnt replied to the view. So the matter has been referred to me for review and 
determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background above, I have read and considered whats 
been provided, Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for the following 
reasons:
Mr B authorised the transactions. Whilst he didnt intend for his money to go to 
scammers, he is initially presumed liable for the loss. There also doesnt appear to be 
any dispute he has been scammed. 
HSBC is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments or declined them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams.
I have looked at the operation of Mr Bs account in the months leading up to the 
transactions in dispute, and in amongst much smaller transactions, there were some 
larger ones. I agree with the investigator that I wouldnt have expected some of the 
earlier transactions in dispute to trigger HSBCs fraud alert systems, even if they 
were to a new payee. However, I also agree that a payment for £10,000 was unusual 
for the account even if payments were spaced apart, as they were here. And it was 
almost double the previous highest payment to the crypto currency exchange, made 
just a few weeks before. This payment was also made to a new payee that had only 
been set up the month previous. Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied HSBCs 
systems ought to have triggered an alert and payments paused pending further 
intervention  such as making enquiries or giving a scam warning. I understand 
HSBC did intervene in the final payment. Not many details of this intervention are 
known, but from the call Mr B made to report the scam, I understand this was a pop-
up screen asking him if he was sure he was paying a genuine business. Im not 
persuaded such a limited intervention would be sufficient, particularly given many 
legitimate crypto purchases are made as part of known and prevalent investment 
scams. 
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr B about the 
payments, I have no reason to doubt he would have explained what he was doing. It 
could have provided information on the steps a customer can take to ensure, so far 
as is reasonably possible, they are dealing with a legitimate merchant.  And it could 
have drawn on its knowledge about the high-risk associated with crypto-assets, the 
potential for fraud and provided a scam warning. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mr B 
would have looked into the opportunity further, and likely would have come across 
the many negative reviews and scam warnings about the merchant he was dealing 
with. Im satisfied a warning from HSBC would likely have exposed the scam and 
caused Mr B to stop investing, thereby preventing the further loss of £17,500. 
I agree, Mr B is also partly responsible for his loss. It doesnt appear he carried out 
much due diligence before deciding to part with his money, even when being 
persuaded to invest more and more. And given the amount invested, its reasonable 
for independent research to be carried out to be satisfied the investment opportunity 
is genuine. I agree a reduction of 20% is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to reimburse Mr 
B £14,000 representing 80% of his losses from the fifth disputed payment. I also require it to 
add 8% simple interest per year, from the date of the payments to the date of settlement, 
less any lawfully deductible tax. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman