DRN-3602806
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim 
under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr B and Mrs B had a water leak in their home. They reported this to their 
insurer who appointed an agent  Ill refer to as V  to manage the claim. Things didnt go 
well at all  Fairmead apologised and appointed a different company  Ill call S  to manage 
the claim. It offered Mr B and Mrs B £250 for the poor service they had received.
Mr B and Mrs B were happy with S and agreed a cash settlement. Nevertheless they have 
complained that the whole process took too long and was very stressful, especially as they 
have a family member with special health and toiletry needs. Fairmead then offered a further 
£200 in compensation and £20 as the cheque for £250 was sent without explanation as to 
what it was for.
Mr B and Mrs B didnt feel they had been fairly compensated and complained here. Our 
investigator didnt recommend any further compensation was paid.
Mr B and Mrs B appealed. They didnt accept that the original £250 was paid as 
compensation and maintained that they had not been treated fairly with regards to the claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The facts of the matter arent in dispute. Fairmead have accepted that the service it provided 
in respect of the water leak claim made in April 2021 was poor and has offered 
compensation. I wholly accept that having a leak in their home that caused damage to 
several areas was very stressful for Mr B and Mrs B. Im grateful to Mrs B for the detail that 
she has provided in this regard. The situation was exacerbated by the handling of the claim 
by Fairmead and its agents. So I need to consider whether the compensation offered is fair 
in all the circumstances.
I accept that the issues with V caused additional stress and delay to the repairs being carried 
out. If S had been appointed initially the situation would have been resolved more quickly  
although I find that the initial period of drying out would have taken the same time. I am 
pleased to note that Fairmead apologised and offered compensation for the issues that 
arose.
I understand that it wasnt clear what the £250 Fairmead sent was for, and Mrs B doesnt 
believe that it was intended to be compensation. Ultimately Fairmead apologised again for 
not explaining why the cheque was sent and offered £20 for this error and a further £200 in 
compensation. So although it wasnt clear what the £250 was for originally it wasnt money 
owed to Mr B and Mrs B and Im satisfied that the intention was that it was compensation for 
the issues that had arisen.
From June 2021 settlement discussions caused several issues to the extent that Mr B and 
Mrs B employed their own surveyor. By mid-July Fairmead agreed to appoint S and from this 
point things went more smoothly. Im pleased to note that Fairmead agreed to reimburse 
their surveyors fee.
Overall Mr B and Mrs B have had a very poor experience and their home and family life has 
been very much disturbed. The matter should have been settled at least six weeks earlier 
than it was and Mr B and Mrs B shouldnt have needed to appoint their own surveyor. So Im 
satisfied that compensation is due to them for the stress and inconvenience they were 
caused. However looking at all the situation overall I find that compensation in the sum of 
£450 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Fairmead Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay a total of £470 to settle the 
complaint and I find the offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My decision is that Fairmead Insurance Limited should pay Mr B and Mrs B £470, less any 
amount of compensation if already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman