DRN-3051165
The complaint
Mr K complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling Bank) wrongly declined pursuing 
chargebacks on payments he made.
What happened
In 2020, Mr K successfully bid in an auction to purchase a property from a third party 
(Company A). His bid was accepted at around £138,000. Mr K made a payment of around 
£15,000 to the auction house as a deposit on the property. He paid the deposit in multiple 
transactions using a MasterCard debit card he holds with Starling Bank.
Mr K applied for a mortgage on the property but was unable to secure one. He believes 
there were structural issues and search problems with the property which were 
misrepresented in the sales brochure. Mr K believes had the auction house been upfront 
about the property condition in its brochure, he would not have bid for it.
As Mr K couldnt continue with the purchase of the property, he says it was placed back on 
the market by Company A to be auctioned and Mr K has lost the deposit payments he paid.
Mr K says hes aware the property has been up for auction several times recently, but he 
believes the purchase has always fallen through. He has suggested the deposit has been 
lost by the attempted buyer on those occasions.
Mr K asked Starling Bank to have the deposit payments reversed through a chargeback 
scheme as he says no completion on the property took place. Starling Bank responded 
saying they requested from Mr K, among other things, the full terms and conditions of the 
auction. And following a review, they believe there is nothing to indicate that the payments 
qualified for a chargeback under the MasterCard chargeback guidelines.
Mr K, unhappy with Starling Banks response, brought his complaint to us. The investigator 
found that, while sympathetic to the circumstances surrounding this case, Starling Bank had 
correctly relied on the guidelines in declining the chargebacks. He concluded by saying there 
hasnt been a Starling Bank error.
Mr K requested his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman and so it has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why below.
Id like to be clear from the outset that my role is to only consider whether Starling Bank were 
right to decide not to attempt chargebacks in this instance. I wont be considering whether 
the auctioneer or Company A acted fairly as these are issues outside of my remit. I can only 
look at what Starling Bank should do in these situations, and whether they correctly followed 
their processes.
A chargeback is a voluntary process run by a card scheme, in this instance, MasterCard. It is 
intended to resolve settlement disputes without the need to resort to more formal resolution. 
Examples where a chargeback may be appropriate are where goods never arrived or the 
merchant never provided them, or where goods are faulty and not as described. Before a 
card issuer like Starling Bank can initiate a chargeback, wed generally expect to see that the 
cardholder has attempted to resolve matters with the merchant first.
I have seen correspondence between Mr Ks solicitors and those representing Company A. 
From the information provided, its clear Mr K attempted to resolve the issue with Company 
A first but couldnt reach an amicable agreement. So, I can see why Mr K approached 
Starling Bank to request chargebacks.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. The company that Mr K paid can defend any 
chargeback claim. When that happens, Starling Bank can pursue it further through the 
chargeback scheme.
Starling Bank didnt need to raise chargebacks if its clear Mr K would have lost. But I would 
consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and where 
there is a reasonable chance of recovery.
Chargebacks arent decided on the merits of the dispute between the cardholder and 
merchant, but rather its decided on the relevant card schemes rules. Ultimately, its 
MasterCards guidelines and Starling Bank have no power to change them. So, Ive thought 
about whether Starling Bank fairly applied MasterCards guidelines when declining the 
chargeback requests.
Starling Banks main reason for declining to pursue chargebacks are that they believe as Mr 
K was purchasing a property from auction, the dispute fell outside of the chargeback scheme 
criteria. They have relied on the scheme where it states:
This chargeback is not available when proper disclosure of the conditions of the goods is 
made at the time of the sale, such as when goods are sold in "as is" condition.
The terms and conditions of the auction site Mr K used are available online. The terms say 
that You need to check that the information in the particulars is correct. I have taken that 
to mean that all potential buyers should make their own enquiries and investigations to the 
accuracy of the information contained in the sales brochure.
Alongside reviewing the auction terms, the auction where Mr K bid for the property is also 
available to view online. The details of the property which Mr K would have seen in his 
brochure are available, including a few photos. Ive noted the property is a terraced house, 
likely built many decades ago.
In this instance, I think its reasonable to assume that the property is in as is condition as it 
was being purchased in an auction. Because of this, its difficult to conclude that Starling 
Bank acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to proceed with the chargeback claims Mr K 
wanted.
While I have sympathy towards Mr Ks circumstances, I think Starling Banks decision not to 
raise chargeback requests was reasonable as the information it gathered suggested they 
were unlikely to have been successful.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint and I dont require Starling 
Bank Limited to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman