DRN-3760375
The complaint
Mr B and Ms H have complained that EUI Limited (EUI) treated them unfairly due to an error 
with their home insurance policy.
For ease, I will normally only refer to Mr B, as he dealt with the policy change and complaint.
What happened
Mr B contacted EUI to check if an electric unicycle could be added to his home insurance 
policy. EUI checked some details for the unicycle and confirmed it could be added for an 
additional premium. Mr B agreed and the unicycle was added to the policy. Shortly after this, 
Mr B made a claim for accidental damage to the unicycle. He was told the policy didnt cover 
motorised vehicles, so the claim couldnt be considered.
So, Mr B complained. EUI replied and said motorised vehicles werent covered, but Mr B had 
been misadvised so, on this occasion, it would either repair or replace the unicycle. 
However, it wouldnt be covered in future. It also offered £50 compensation.
A couple of hours later, Mr B received a further response to his complaint. This said the 
previous response to the complaint had been sent in error. Mr B had been correctly advised 
that the unicycle wasnt covered and the claim wouldnt be dealt with. EUI offered £350 
compensation for the errors.
Mr B then contacted this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said although 
the unicycle wasnt covered by the policy, Mr B had been told it was insured and had acted 
on that advice. By following EUIs advice, Mr B was at a financial loss, so our investigator 
said EUI needed to pay the cost of replacing the unicycle plus interest on any cash 
settlement.
EUI didnt agree. It said the unicycle wasnt covered under the policy and it had quickly dealt 
with the incorrect advice it had given. It also said it had now offered a total of £500 
compensation and the premium had been refunded with interest. Following this, the 
complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy and can see it doesnt cover motorised vehicles. From what I can 
see, the electric unicycle seemed to fall within the definition of a motorised vehicle, so I can 
see why the claim was declined. This left Mr B without insurance cover for the unicycle.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr B gave clear information about the unicycle he wanted cover 
for. The responses he received from EUI included clarifying how the unicycle was powered. 
Following this he was told the unicycle could be insured for an additional premium. Mr B 
agreed to this. It was only when he made a claim a short time later that he was told the 
unicycle wasnt covered, as the policy didnt cover motorised vehicles.
Mr B has said that if he had been told the unicycle couldnt be insured under the policy, he 
would have looked for cover elsewhere or sold it. However, because of what he was told by 
EUI, he thought he had cover in place. So, I think, due to the incorrect advice given by EUI, 
Mr B suffered a financial loss, as when he tried to claim for the unicycle he found out he 
didnt have cover in place. As a result, I think EUI needs to ensure that Mr B doesnt lose out 
because of its error. This means it needs to pay the cost of repairing or replacing the 
unicycle or to pay a cash settlement for it. If it pays a cash settlement, it must pay interest on 
that amount because Mr B lost use of the money.
Ive also thought about compensation. EUI initially offered Mr B £50 compensation. A couple 
of hours later, when it wrote again to change its final response to the complaint, it increased 
this to £350. In the circumstances, I think its £350 compensation offer was fair to reflect the 
incorrect cover advice Mr B was given, the concern caused by his claim then being turned 
down because that advice was wrong and him being sent two contradictory responses to his 
complaint on the same day.
Putting things right
EUI should repair, replace oo offer a cash settlement for the unicycle. If it pays a cash 
settlement, it should pay interest on that amount.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
EUI Limited to:
pay the cost of repairing or replacing the unicycle or pay a cash settlement for it.
if it pays a cash settlement, pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on 
which the claim was first made to the date on which the payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman