DRN-3200842
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint relates to a monthly payment that was made from their bank 
account between 1988 and 1994, which they believe was paid to Scottish Widows Limited. 
They think it was to pay the premium for a mortgage protection policy, but Scottish Widows 
is unable to confirm thats the case or give any details of what policy the payment was for. 
If it was the premium for a mortgage protection policy, Mr and Mrs S want the premiums 
refunded as they didnt have a choice about taking the policy and didnt need any cover the 
policy would have provided.
What happened
In 1988 Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with a high street lender, which I will refer to as 
H. The information available about the mortgage is somewhat unclear. It was detailed that 
the mortgage was to be arranged on an endowment basis and that an existing policy was to 
be used, but there is also mention of a new policy being taken.
The following year, Mr and Mrs S applied for an endowment policy via H. The application 
form stated Transfer to the Endowment Scheme. Scottish Widows / policy to be released. 
The new endowment policy was put in place and the monthly premium was £191.15.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S were looking into whether they had payment protection insurance 
alongside their mortgage. They made a Subject Access Request to H. It provided some 
limited information about the bank account they used to pay the mortgage. Mr and Mrs S 
noted an £8 standing order payment going out of the account on the same day as the 
mortgage. The information also showed that there was a direct debit set up on the account 
for a payment to Scottish Widows for a policy ending in 794.
Mr and Mrs S attempted to get more information on the monthly payment and approached 
Scottish Widows to question what the £8 had been for. Scottish Widows initial response to 
Mr and Mrs S queries was that it wasnt able to confirm what policy the premium was linked 
to, but it speculated that given the amount and when it was taken out, it may have been for a 
mortgage protection policy. However, it couldnt trace any details of a policy linked to that 
premium payment.
H was also unable to provide any details about the payment or any linked policy. However, H 
did confirm to this service that the payment was an internal transfer to another account with 
it, rather than being a payment to an external organisation.
Scottish Widows looked into Mr and Mrs S question about the payment again. It said that 
the only policy it could find in Mr and Mrs S name was the mortgage endowment policy 
ending in 794. It confirmed the policy had been used to support their mortgage with H, but 
that it appeared to have been replaced with an endowment policy with a different provider. 
Scottish Widows also confirmed that it no longer had a file for the endowment policy due to 
the amount of time that had passed since it ended. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with the situation and asked this service to consider the 
complaint. When we contacted Scottish Widows, it confirmed that there wasnt enough 
evidence about the policy linked to the premium Mr and Mrs S had queried to be able to 
conduct an investigation.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. She confirmed that as there was no information about what the 
payment was for, it wasnt possible to determine whether they had benefited from it or not. 
She also explained that the lack of information would also make it impossible to calculate 
redress, even if we could uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions and provided copy 
correspondence and information regarding the mortgage and account with H, some of which 
was new. They also commented on what might have happened, based on different 
comments from different parties. 
Our investigator considered everything provided and said she wasnt persuaded that the 
evidence showed Scottish Widows was responsible for anything to do with the £8 payment, 
but if it was, there wasnt enough evidence to show it had done anything wrong. She 
explained that there would need to be evidence that Scottish Widows had done something 
wrong for a complaint to be upheld. As Mr and Mrs S remained dissatisfied, they asked that 
the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly explain that in order to uphold a complaint about a financial business, I must 
be satisfied that it is responsible for the matter being complained about. I would then need to 
find that the financial business did something wrong or made an error. It would only be at 
that point that the matter of redress would be assessed. 
Mr and Mrs S are looking into a banking transaction from their account with H that started in 
1988 and ended in 1994. Financial services providers are only required to keep information 
about financial products for a relatively short period of time  seven years from the time the 
product ceased to exist. So it is not surprising that H and Scottish Widows have limited 
information from so far in the past. While I accept this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs S, it isnt 
something that I can criticise Scottish Widows for.
The transaction information H provided shows that the £8 per month that Mr and Mrs S have 
questioned was paid into another account with H by standing order. The same 
documentation also shows that there was a direct debit set up on the account for a policy 
ending in 794. Scottish Widows has confirmed that policy was a mortgage endowment 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs S believe that the £8 standing order is linked to a policy with Scottish Widows. 
While there is evidence that they had a policy with Scottish Widows, that policy was paid by 
direct debit to Scottish Widows, so it would seem unlikely the £8 was anything to do with that 
policy. In addition, as that policy was a mortgage endowment policy, the premium would 
have been far higher than £8 per month. I say this from experience of mortgage endowment 
complaints and as we have evidence of the premium for Mr and Mrs S second endowment 
policy, which was just under £200 per month.I havent seen any evidence that the amount of the standing order money was eventually 
passed on to Scottish Widows or that it was linked to a policy with Scottish Widows. 
However, even if it was evidenced that the £8 per month was passed on to Scottish Widows 
as the premium for some form of policy with it, without knowing what the policy was it 
wouldnt be possible to determine whether it was needed and if something was done wrong. 
Therefore, it wouldnt be possible to uphold the complaint. 
I would also comment that if a policy existed, and it should have been cancelled at some 
point before 1994, Mr and Mrs S were the only ones that could do this. The only time 
Scottish Widows would cancel a policy without the instruction of the policyholder(s) was if 
the premiums stopped being paid. 
I know that this outcome will disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but the evidence in this case doesnt 
show that Scottish Widows is involved with the monthly sum they are concerned about or 
that it did anything wrong in its dealings with them. As such, I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman