DRN-4286216
The complaint
Mr C complains that three transfers into his Revolut Ltd (Revolut) account were reverted 
due to account restrictions while a source of funds (SOF) review was taking place. The 
transfers were funds he was trying to retrieve from a business that was failing. The business 
subsequently became insolvent and Mr C lost his money. 
What happened
Mr C held a Revolut account. On 14 September a SOF review was triggered by Revoluts 
automated system. On 15 September, Revolut emailed Mr C about this saying that it will ask 
him a couple of questions about his source of funds and to submit some documents. The 
email further explained that the verification could be done on the app which would guide Mr 
C through the process.
Revolut also placed a permanent banner on its app regarding this. Further reminders were 
sent between 21 September and 4 October. Unfortunately, these emails were received into 
Mr Cs spam folder and Mr C failed to read them or respond.
On 12 October Revolut sent an email informing Mr C that certain restrictions had been 
placed on his account due to the ongoing review. Reminder emails were sent regarding this 
on 18 and 26 October.
On 12 October Mr C received a $9,000 transfer into his Revolut account from an account in 
he held with a third party business. This transfer reverted back to the sender as a 
consequence of the restrictions applied to the account. This happened on two further 
transfers received on 3 and 7 November for the same reason. 
Mr C got in touch with Revolut via its in-app chat about this on 9 November and the matter 
was escalated to its transfers team to investigate what could be done.
The following day Revoluts financial crime team got in touch via its in-app chat to request 
the necessary SOF documentation and shortly after this the review was completed without 
the need to submit any documentation and the account restrictions lifted. Revolut confirmed 
this outcome through the chat with Mr C.
Unfortunately, by this point the business Mr C was trying to extract his funds from (and 
where the transfers had reverted back to) had become insolvent and he was no longer able 
to retrieve the reverted amounts and Mr C raised a complaint.
Revolut say that it acted in line with its terms and conditions and fairly in following the laws, 
regulations and its own processes when restricting the account while the review was 
ongoing and this wasnt specifically connected to the transfers. It says a recall was initiated 
on 16 November to recover the reverted transfers but the receiving bank was unresponsive. 
Revolut has continued to send chasers to the business and the recovery process is still 
open.
Mr C was dissatisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr C wants Revolut 
to refund him the funds he lost through the reverted transfers.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Revolut hadnt made an error or treated Mr C unfairly. They thought Revolut acted within its 
terms and conditions and the stance that it took was reasonable considering the financial 
regulation and laws it was required to follow. 
Mr C disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
It should be noted that following bringing his complaint to this service Mr C raised further 
issues regarding Revoluts communications with him and Mr Cs perceived failure of it to 
take timely action. As these complaint points werent included in Mr Cs original complaint 
and therefore not addressed in Revoluts final response, they havent been investigated and 
dont form part of my final decision. But our investigator has provided Mr C with Revoluts 
response to these points and it is up to him whether he now wishes to take these complaint 
points further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make a 
business change its systems or processes  such as how or when it carries out its funding 
checks or when it deems it necessary to place restrictions on accounts. We offer an informal 
dispute resolution service and we have no regulatory or disciplinary role. And my role isnt to 
punish or penalise businesses for its performance or behaviour  thats the role of the 
regulator, in this case the Financial Conduct Authority.
My role is to look at the problems Mr C has experienced and see if Revolut has done 
anything wrong or treated him unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr C back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr C is unhappy that Revolut applied restrictions to his account which meant that transfers 
received in from an account he held with a failing business were reverted back. Revoluts 
terms and conditions which Mr C agreed to say it:
 might prevent you from making payments from your account or with your Revolut Card if 
were reasonably concerned about its security or that it might be used fraudulently or without 
your permission. We might also have to block your account or Revolut Card to meet our 
legal obligations...." and
"We may... suspend your account immediately (including access to our trading, crypto, and
precious metals services), and end your access to our website, in exceptional circumstances
...for example...if you haven't given us (or someone acting on our behalf) any information
we need ....
Revolut have confirmed the SOF that led to restrictions being placed on Mr Cs account was 
automated. In this case the timing was most unfortunate and has impacted Mr C greatly, but 
Revoluts terms and conditions allow it to do this. And Mr C was given by email what I 
consider reasonable notice and reminders of this, as well as Revolut placing a permanent 
banner on its app. The emails told him what was needed to do to satisfy the review and to 
complete before the restrictions were applied. So I dont think Revolut made an error here or treated Mr C unfairly. I accept Mr C never 
read these emails due to them falling into his spam folder  but again I cant say that was 
due to an error made on Revoluts part.
Mr C says that the automatic application of the SOF was unfair and unfounded.
But I think it is normal practice for a business to put automated tools in place to help it meet 
its regulatory requirements  it simply wouldnt be practical for a business to manually 
assess and review each and every transaction made on a customers account. 
So I dont think Revolut treated Mr C unfairly when its processes triggered an automated 
SOF when it did or when it put restrictions in place when it failed to receive the response 
required to complete the review. 
I appreciate Mr C is unsatisfied with the reasons Revolut provided regarding why the SOF 
was requested. But as our investigator has already explained, to protect the security of its 
systems and to ensure it meets its legal obligations Revolut has to be careful about the 
information it shares about its processes as this information can be liable to abuse. But I can 
say that Im satisfied that from the information Ive seen that Revoluts automated SOF 
review wasnt triggered unreasonably based on the transactions on Mr Cs account.
I sympathise with Mr C, as he is the victim of a failure of a business which he entrusted his 
money with. But ultimately Revolut had nothing to do with the business failure and by the 
time Mr C got in touch regarding the reverted transfers it was too late. Though I note as soon 
as Mr C got in touch about the transfers Revolut completed its review and lifted the 
restrictions within a day and is continuing to try and assist Mr C to recover his funds. Im not 
sure what more Revolut could reasonably have done that wouldve changed the outcome. 
So it follows that Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint as I dont think Revolute has made an 
error or treated Mr C unfairly. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman