DRN-1423793
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside a credit card in 1999. 
I can see Mr E had several financial products with Barclays over the years and he has raised 
a number of issues. Just to be clear, the matter that is before me is about the sale of PPI in 
1999 only.
 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr E didnt agree with that view. 
He said that the only reason he bought PPI was that Barclays told him that his application 
was more likely to succeed if the cover was added to his account. He said that both Barclays 
and another business had upheld his other complaints for that reason. Mr E also said that he 
lived with his parents and would have had more cover from his employer than the PPI would 
have offered, so he didnt need the policy. 
As the parties are not in agreement with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
 
I want to assure Mr E that I have considered at length what he told us about the PPI sale. I 
am very sorry to disappoint him, but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The parties agree that the cover was sold during a meeting. I cant know what was said 
during that meeting. To help me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Mr E told us about the sale. Ive particularly considered a call recording between Mr E 
and our adjudicator in which Mr E set out his case. Ive also considered some documentary 
evidence thats available from the time. In making this decision, Ive applied the balance of 
probabilities. That means Ive decided whats most likely to have happened based upon the 
evidence before me. 
Listening to the call mentioned above, I note that Mr E said he was given an account 
manager in his early 20s and that each time he applied for a financial product, he was told 
categorically that PPI would assist him to get a positive decision. It is clear from the call 
recording that what Mr E told us is what he genuinely believes to have occurred when PPI 
was sold. I must take into account that it is difficult to remember what happened over 20 
years ago, which is when this policy was sold. And looking at all of the evidence before me, I 
dont think Mr Es recollection about this particular sale is accurate. 
As set out above, Mr E took out this particular card in 1999. From the information provided 
by Barclays, I can see that an upgraded current account was opened for Mr E around three 
years later in 2002  and thats the account that would have likely come with the account 
manager. So when Mr E applied for his credit card, I cant say that his account manager told 
him the PPI would help him with his credit applications because its unlikely he had had an 
account manager at the relevant time. 
If, prior to that 2002 account, Mr E saw different people at Barclays, based on whats before 
me, Im afraid the evidence I have doesnt suggest that Mr E was misled by each Barclays 
staff member in the manner he recalls for this 1999 sale. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. That puts extra responsibility on Barclays because it 
then had to make sure the cover was suitable for Mr Es needs. To help me decide whether 
the cover was a good fit for him, Ive looked at what Mr E told us about his personal 
circumstances at the time. Ive also considered the terms and conditions of the cover. 
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the PPI, Mr E would have been covered for up 
to 12 months if hed lost his job or if hed been off sick from work. Mr E told us that he had 
more than six months pay from work if he was off sick and that he had other means that 
were the equivalent of between six and 12 months of his salary.  I can see that Mr E 
elaborated on this by saying that he had savings and could have relied on help from his 
family if he ran into financial trouble. 
So, looking at what Mr E told us, I think the PPI would have lasted for longer than his full sick 
pay. I appreciate Mr E said he had some savings, but he also said he ended up in a lot of 
debt after refinancing and he had several financial products with Barclays. So it looks as 
though Mr Es savings may not have been accessible or he didnt want to spend them on his 
credit accounts. In any event, with PPI, Mr E would have been able to use those savings on 
his other essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time if 
hed been out of work. 
I also appreciate it would have been the intention of Mr Es family members to help him if he 
did get into financial trouble. But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that 
Mr E would have been able to rely on that help as and when he needed it. Putting everything 
together, I think the PPI probably was suitable for Mr Es needs. 
Barclays still had to give Mr E enough information about the PPI so he could decide for 
himself whether it was right for him. I accept its possible that Barclays didnt tell Mr E 
everything it should have done about the PPI. But Ive set out above how PPI could have 
been helpful if Mr E was out of work. So it follows that I dont think hed have acted differently 
even if hed been given more or better information about the cover. 
I just want to comment briefly on Mr Es point that Barclays had upheld other PPI complaints 
hed made with them. I havent seen the documents relating to those complaints, so I cant 
say categorically why they were upheld. I would note however that the PPI that was often 
sold alongside Barclays loans was often fundamentally different to that sold alongside its 
credit cards. For example, the loans may have been covered by a single premium policy. It is 
the differences in the policies which may explain why the PPI alongside the loans were 
upheld, whereas the credit card was not. 
As I said above, I am sorry to disappoint Mr E, but for the reasons set out above, I havent 
upheld his complaint. I dont need to tell Barclays to take any further action. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman