DRN-2927224
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about the way Olton Alexander Ltd (OA) have handled their 
claim against a bank for providing finance to buy a timeshare.
What happened
Some years ago Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare. They funded the purchase with a loan 
from a UK bank.
At the end of June 2016, Mr and Mrs B instructed OA to see if they had a claim against the 
bank in respect of the lending. OAs representative told them that they qualified to join a 
group action against the bank. Mr and Mrs B were told this action had been ongoing since 
2013 and that OA would refer their case to the solicitors handling the group action for it to be 
added in. They paid OA an action commencement fee (ACF) of £2,385.
Mr and Mrs B received some update information over the following months and were asked 
to sign letters of authority in November 2016, February 2017 and March 2017. And they 
received newsletters. In August 2017, OA wrote to Mr and Mrs B and told them theyd be 
passing their file to the solicitors dealing with the group action. They said the solicitors would 
contact Mr and Mrs B within the following 45 days.
Mr and Mrs B heard nothing further. In January 2020, they complained to OA that emails 
theyd sent and calls theyd made to find out what was happening in the case had gone 
unanswered. It appears they sent the complaint to an old address which OA was no longer 
using and they had no reply. So at the end of February they sent a second letter to OA and 
obtained proof of delivery.
Mr and Mrs B had no response to their complaint. So they referred it to us. We requested 
OAs business file as part of our investigation. But OA havent supplied it, although they have 
said theyve done nothing wrong in their handling of Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Our investigator considered the complaint based on the testimony and documents provided 
by Mr and Mrs B. These included a copy of a letter they sent to the solicitors theyd been told 
were acting in the group action. And they sent us the solicitors reply, which said they had no 
record of any claim for Mr and Mrs B  and that, if they were acting for them, theyd have 
been corresponding with Mr and Mrs B direct.
Our investigator concluded, on the basis of the information available, that on balance OA 
had progressed Mr and Mrs Bs claim. But said that theyd not kept Mr and Mrs B up to date. 
And OA should pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for that.
I didnt agree with our investigators view.  So I made a provisional decision. I explained that, 
despite OA telling us theyd been in regular contact with Mr and Mrs B, wed not been able to 
confirm that by reviewing their business file.  So we only had Mr and Mrs Bs testimony to 
rely on  which told us that theyd had no contact since August 2017.  That wasnt 
reasonable and I thought Mr and Mrs B should be compensated for that.
And I wasnt satisfied that the claim had been progressed.  I considered that Mr and Mrs B 
had made their own enquiries of the solicitors supposedly dealing with the claim  who said 
they had no record of Mr and Mrs B.  I wasnt persuaded by OA that they got that response 
because of the way theyd asked the solicitors for information.  I thought the most likely 
reason for the solicitors response was that OA had never instructed them.
So I provisionally decided that OA should pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for the 
worry and uncertainty their lack of communication had caused.  And I thought OA should 
refund the £2,385 Action Commencement fee (plus interest) because Id seen no evidence 
that any action had been commenced on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf.
Mr and Mrs B have confirmed they accept my provisional decision.  OA havent responded 
within the time limit we gave them.  So Im making a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons I outlined above 
and in the provisional decision I sent to both parties.
Putting things right
I said in my provisional decision that OA should pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for 
the worry and uncertainty their lack of communication caused them over a prolonged period.  
Ive not received any information which has led me to change my view on that.
Nor has anything changed my provisional decision that OA should refund the £2,385 ACF Mr 
and Mrs B paid them.  Ive taken into account that OAs director had told our investigator that 
refunding this would mean that Mr and Mrs B couldnt recover anything as part of the claim 
OA were co-ordinating.
But Ive explained above why I think the refund is fair.  And Mr and Mrs B have accepted my 
provisional decision.  So Im satisfied thats the right thing to do.
And, as Mr and Mrs B have had no benefit from this money since they paid it to OA, I think 
that OA should pay simple interest on the £2,385, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum, 
from 30 June 2016 (the date they paid it to OA) until OA make the payment to them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Olton 
Alexander Ltd and direct OA to: 
refund Mr and Mrs B the Action Commencement Fee of £2,385 they paid on 30June 
2016;
pay simple interest on £2,385 at the rate of 8% from 30 June 2016 until the date of 
repayment. If OA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate;
pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for the worry and uncertainty their lack of 
communication caused Mr and Mrs B.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman