DRN-3910906
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited turned down a claim he made on a private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr S is insured under his employers group medical insurance policy. Cover had previously 
been provided by another insurer on a moratorium basis, with a moratorium start date of 1 
June 2020. The employers contract with AXA began in June 2021, on a continued medical 
exclusions basis. This meant that Mr S was still subject to a moratorium start date of 1 June 
2020.
In September 2021, Mr S contacted AXA to make a claim for back and leg pain. AXA agreed
to cover a consultation with a specialist. Mr S saw a specialist, who Ill call Mr J, on 2 
October 2021. Mr J referred Mr S for an MRI scan.
Following review of the MRI scan report and a second consultation, Mr J recommended that
Mr S should undergo spinal surgery. This was scheduled for 23 November 2021. Mr S asked
AXA to cover the costs of the surgery.
AXA requested further information from Mr J to allow it to assess whether or not to pay the
claim. This evidence was received on 19 November 2021 and indicated that Mr S had an 18-
month history of low back pain. On that basis, on the same day, AXA turned down Mr S
claim, as it concluded that his condition was caught by the moratorium clause.
Mr S was unhappy with AXAs decision. He didnt agree that hed been experiencing
symptoms of the condition for 18 months. He provided another letter, from Mr Js office,
which stated that his condition was a new diagnosis and was intended to address leg
symptoms
AXA reconsidered the claim. It says it spoke to Mr J who said that his secretary had provided
the new letter to Mr S and that Mr J didnt fully agree with the date or the content of it. This
was followed-up by an email. On that basis, AXA maintained its decision. It did acknowledge
that it shouldnt have authorised Mr S initial consultation at the outset and should have
asked for more information about his symptom history. So it agreed to pay for the costs of Mr
S consultations and scans, together with £100 compensation for any delays in
communication.
Mr S remained unhappy with AXAs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He
had undergone surgery as planned on 23 November 2021. He felt that AXA hadnt given him
enough notice of its decision to allow him to cancel the surgery without incurring the full cost
of it.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. He felt that given the medical
evidence, AXA had been entitled to conclude that the claim wasnt covered. And he thought
AXA had given Mr S enough notice of its claims decision to allow him to cancel the
operation.
Mr S disagreed. In summary, he said that the hospitals terms and conditions stated that if
surgery was cancelled less than 48 hours ahead of its scheduled date, then the full costs
would be due. At that point, AXA had still been reviewing the further evidence from Mr J, and
the review wasnt completed until after Mr S had undergone surgery.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 January 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I thought it had been fair for AXA to turn Mr S claim down. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the terms of the insurance policy and the medical evidence, to decide whether AXA handled
Mr S claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the insurance
contract between Mr S employer and AXA. I can see from Mr S policy schedule that the
policy with AXA began on 1 June 2021 on a continued medical exclusions basis. The
schedule states that Mr S moratorium start date was 1 June 2020, which indicates that his
previous cover had been underwritten on moratorium terms. Page 30 of the policy terms and
conditions says:
If you joined us on moratorium terms, it means you wont have cover for treatment of
medical problems you had in the five years before joining us until:
- You have been a member for two years in a row; and
- Youve had a period of 12 consecutive months since you joined that have been
trouble-free from that condition.
If you joined us from another health insurer, and we carried on your moratorium from that
insurer, the rules may be slightly different, and we may start the moratorium from when it 
originally began on your previous insurance. Your membership certificate will show some
details about how your particular moratorium works.
Mr S schedule says: No benefit will be payable for pre-existing medical conditions until at
least two years after your moratorium start date, after which benefit will become available, if
at the time of receiving treatment there has been a trouble-free period of 24 months.
In Mr S case, I think AXA had made it sufficiently clear that pre-existing medical conditions
wouldnt be covered until at least 1 June 2022, if Mr S had remained trouble-free from
symptoms between 1 June 2020 and that date. So Ive next gone on to think about how AXA
handled the claim.
It's clear that when Mr S initially called AXA in September 2021, he indicated that hed
suffered similar symptoms on the other side of his body around four years beforehand. In my
view, given the timeframe and the nature of Mr S symptoms, this ought to have prompted
the call handler to ask further questions about Mr S current condition and to request further
medical evidence. However, its common ground that this didnt happen and that instead,
authorisation was given for Mr S to see a specialist. Following Mr S initial consultation with
Mr J, AXA also authorised the cost of an MRI and a follow-up consultation.
As a result of the MRI results, Mr J concluded that Mr S required surgery. AXA duly
requested further evidence to allow it to consider whether or not surgical costs would be met.
I dont think this was an unreasonable position for it to take. Thats because its for apolicyholder to show they have a valid claim on their policy and so it was for Mr S to provide
AXA with enough evidence to allow it to decide whether or not the claim was covered.
Indeed, I note that page 19 of the contract also says that AXA may ask you to provide more
information, for example from your GP or specialist. You, or your GP or specialist must
provide us with the information we ask for by the date we ask for it or you might not be
covered for your claim. I can see that AXA asked Mr S for specific information from Mr J on
23 October 2021  a month before the surgery was scheduled. This included a request for
clinic notes; clinic letters and imaging results.
It doesnt appear that Mr S provided AXA with all of the information it needed. It seems he
simply sent it a letter from Mr J dated 17 October 2021, which set out the need for surgery
and the relevant risks. I dont think this was sufficient medical evidence to demonstrate
whether or not Mr S claim should be met. And so I think it was reasonable for AXA to
contact Mr J directly a few days later to request the medical evidence it required.
Mr J provided AXA with the relevant letters and radiologists report on 19 November 2021,
following chase-ups from AXA and also seemingly from Mr S. I dont think I could fairly or
reasonably hold AXA responsible for any delay in Mr J sending the evidence to it. And I dont
think it was in a position to make a decision on the claim until it received the information it
needed. AXA assessed the evidence on the same day and concluded that the claim was
excluded from cover. So Ive carefully considered the available medical evidence to decide
whether this was a fair conclusion for AXA to draw.
First, Ive looked at a clinic letter dated 3 October 2021, which followed a consultation
between Mr J and Mr S the previous day. Mr J has recorded that:
(Mr S) came for his outpatient review today. The main concern has been more than a year
and half history of worsening low back pain with reradiating leg pain predominantly on the
right side, extending from the gluteal region all the way down to his calf.
The radiologists report, dated 11 October 2021, states: 
Thank you for referring this gentleman with an 18-month history of low back pain and right 
leg pain with right-sided sacroiliac joint tenderness for MRI scan of the lumbar spine and 
sacroiliac joints.
In my view, the medical evidence provided to AXA on 19 November 2021, was indicative
that Mr S had experienced symptoms around 18 months before September 2021 (meaning
hed been experiencing symptoms broadly since March 2020). So I think it was reasonable
for AXA to rely on this evidence to conclude that Mr S condition was caught by the terms of
the moratorium and turn down the claim. Its clear that AXA let Mr S know it was turning
down his claim on the same day, so it seems to me that it gave him a clear answer at the
earliest possible opportunity once it had received the evidence it required.
I appreciate that Mr S later sent AXA a further letter from Mr Js office, which was also dated
3 October 2021, and which was at odds with the content of his other letter dated 3 October
2021. So I think it was appropriate for AXA to agree to review its position. But I think it was
clear that AXA would need to undertake further queries with Mr J ahead of making a further
decision. And given that 20 and 21 November 2021 fell on a weekend, I dont think it would
have been reasonable or fair to expect AXA to have been able to undertake further enquiries
with Mr J or assess any further evidence ahead of the planned date of surgery of 23
November 2021.
AXA has provided me with a copy of an email it says was sent by Mr J which appears toconfirm that he didnt fully agree with the date or content of the second letter Mr S sent in
support of his claim. It seems this may not have been dictated by Mr J. So I dont think it was
unreasonable for AXA to maintain its original claims decision. Thats because much of the
contemporaneous medical evidence does point to Mr J having suffered symptoms of the
condition during the moratorium period. If Mr J does consider that Mr S surgery was due to
a new and unrelated condition through, it remains open to Mr S to obtain further evidence
from Mr J and send it to AXA for further consideration.
It's clear that Mr S feels strongly that he was left with no option but to go ahead with the
surgery, or hed incur the full costs regardless. Ive set out above why I dont think AXA could
reasonably have given a claims decision earlier than it ultimately did. Id add though that 19
November 2021 was four days before the surgery was due to take place. The terms and
conditions Mr S has sent me show that full cancellation fees would only apply if less than 48
hours of cancellation notice was given. So Im not persuaded that Mr S wouldve been liable
to pay the full costs of surgery had he cancelled on 19 November 2021. Its possible he
might have incurred some costs had he cancelled on this date, but it appears these were
calculated in line with reasonable costs at the hospitals discretion up to a limit of 30%. And
given Mr S did choose to go ahead with the surgery, knowing that AXA had already turned
down the claim, I dont think I could fairly direct AXA to make any award in lieu of potential,
discretionary cancellation fees.
As Ive outlined above, AXA acknowledges that it ought to have asked for more evidence at
the outset. So its covered the consultation and scan fees Mr S incurred. I think this was an
appropriate response from AXA. I also think its award of £100 compensation for any delays
Mr S initially experienced was fair.
Overall, based on the evidence before me, I currently think that it was fair for AXA to turn
down Mr S claim. So Im not planning to direct it to do anything more.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional evidence they wanted me to consider.
Mr S disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, he said that in all of his 
consultations with Mr J, hed been told his leg pain was a new and unrelated condition. He 
said hed complied with all of AXAs information requests in a timely way  but it had taken 
AXA between 2 and 19 November 2021 to make a claims decision, which he felt was 
unreasonable. Any cancellation at this point wouldve incurred a full cancellation charge. 
Hed felt he had no option but to pay for the surgery and accordingly, undergo the procedure. 
Nor did he think the compensation AXA had awarded was sufficient.
Additionally, Mr S provided a further letter from Mr J and an email from Mr Js secretary. Mr 
Js letter was dated 19 November 2021 with a verified date of 5 January 2023. The letter 
says:
I have been asked to clarify Mr Ss medical condition in relation to his upcoming spinal 
surgery. To clarify, the surgery is for Mr Ss leg symptoms which are new in nature and 
onset.
During the initial consultation on 2nd October 2021, Mr S mentioned to me that he had 
previously had a short bout of back pain eighteen months ago which resolved using over the 
counter medication.
We sent AXA a copy of Mr Js new evidence for its consideration. But it maintained its claims 
decision. Briefly, it said that it placed most emphasis on the contemporaneous medical 
notes, which showed Mr S symptoms had begun before the policy start date. It said that Mr 
J had clearly linked Mr S back and leg pain initially. It felt it was difficult to reconcile a letter which had been amended around 15 months after the clinic appointment and initial clinic 
letter with the initial evidence. And it considered that the initial clinic letters were likely to be 
more accurate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I still think it was fair for AXA to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to thank Mr S for the additional evidence he sent me. Id like to reassure him 
that Ive carefully considered his submissions, including the new evidence from Mr J and Mr 
Js secretary. However, whilst the new medical evidence is helpful, I think its fair for AXA to 
place more weight on the contemporaneous medical evidence which was recorded at the 
time of the claim, and Ill explore this further.
As Ive set out above, in Mr Js letter of October 2021, he noted:
(Mr S) came for his outpatient review today. The main concern has been more than a year
and half history of worsening low back pain with reradiating leg pain predominantly on the
right side, extending from the gluteal region all the way down to his calf.
And the radiologists report, dated 11 October 2021, states: 
Thank you for referring this gentleman with an 18-month history of low back pain and right 
leg pain with right-sided sacroiliac joint tenderness for MRI scan of the lumbar spine and 
sacroiliac joints.
Both pieces of evidence were written following a first-hand examination of Mr S by the 
radiologist and Mr J. Both medical professionals recorded that Mr S reported he had been 
suffering from an 18-month history of back pain. Both pieces of evidence clearly link Mr S 
back pain and leg pain. These records were made on or very shortly after Mr S 
appointments with Mr J and the radiologist and so I think its more likely than not that theyre 
an accurate reflection of what was discussed and found.
Mr Js secretary now says that the second letter of 3 October 2021 had been dated in error 
and shouldve been dated 19 November 2021  the date AXA made its claims decision. 
Again, Ive thought about this carefully. But it remains the case that following further 
investigation by AXA, the evidence indicates that Mr J emailed AXA and said:
I do not fully agree with the content or the date of the letter. Apology it has caused so much 
confusion. I can reconfirm that he had history of back pain going back to 18 months at least. 
His leg pain, pre-existing one had got worse in the last 4 weeks prior to his initial 
consultation with myself.
Given the discrepancies between the medical evidence Mr J had provided, I think it was fair 
for AXA to maintain its claims decision.
As Ive explained, Mr Js most recent evidence, which appears to have been verified on 5 
January 2023, does indicate that Mr Js leg symptoms were new in nature. However, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for AXA to place more weight on the evidence recorded by Mr J 
and the radiologist at the time. Given the proximity to the clinic appointments, I think its fair 
for AXA to conclude that the original evidence is more likely to be an accurate reflection of what Mr J found and what Mr S said at the time. The new evidence was verified over 15 
months after Mr S first appointments with Mr J and memories can fade over time. 
It remains the case that the initial medical evidence provided by Mr S treating medical team 
indicates that his symptoms existed before the policy began. And therefore, I still find that it 
was fair for AXA to conclude that Mr S claim wasnt covered. Id add that it remains open to 
Mr S to obtain more medical evidence in support of his claim, should he wish to do so and to 
send this on to AXA. It would be for AXA to assess any such new evidence and if Mr S was 
unhappy with any further consideration of his claim, he may be able to bring a new complaint 
to us about that issue alone. 
Mr S maintains that AXA didnt handle his claim in a timely way, which led to him being 
unable to cancel the surgery without penalty. But having considered everything afresh, I 
dont think AXA was responsible for the delays between Mr S confirming that this was a new 
claim and it receiving all of the evidence it needed. Thats because its clear that AXA sent its 
information request in good time.  As I explained in my provisional decision, I think AXA was 
reasonably entitled to request further information to fully consider this claim. And the delay 
seems to have occurred because Mr J was on leave until four days before the evidence was 
sent on to AXA. This was something it had no control over. 
Once AXA had the information it needed, it told Mr S on the same day, 19 November 2021, 
that the claim wasnt payable. While Mr S may have had pre-op tests booked within a couple 
of days, its still the case that the surgery was four days away at that point. And the hospital  
terms and conditions do indicate that full cancellation fees would only be charged if 
cancellation happened within 48 hours of the procedure. So while I can understand why Mr 
S decided to go ahead with the surgery, I think AXA had given him the relevant information 
to make an informed decision as to whether or not to do so and he knew there was a real 
likelihood that hed be liable for the cost.
Its clear that Mr S doesnt think that the compensation hes been awarded is sufficient. Ive 
thought about this. AXA acknowledges it ought to have asked Mr S for more information at 
the outset. This might have allowed it to make a claims decision earlier. However, AXA has 
also paid the cost of Mr S consultation and diagnostic testing, which it wouldve been 
entitled to turn down. So I still find that these payments, taken together with AXAs award of 
£100 compensation is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
Overall then, despite my natural sympathy with Mr S position, Ive decided that it was fair 
and reasonable for AXA to turn down Mr S claim. This means Im not directing it to pay 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman