DRN-1399804
 
The complaint
V, a limited company, complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with its application 
for a current account
What happened
V approached Lloyds for a business account and was told that its application would not be 
considered further. It was unhappy with the way a relationship manager dealt with its 
proposals. The director of V thinks that the relationship manager did not understand the 
business model and that it unfairly used information about her own banking relationship with 
Lloyds when making its decision. V says the relationship manager was belittling and wrongly 
said that there were reputational risks of opening an account.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Lloyds had 
the right to decide whether or not to open an account. Lloyds was not able to provide copies 
of the recordings of the calls with the relationship manager. But during the calls he had been 
able to listen to with the central team the members of staff were polite to the director of V. 
Lloyds was not obliged to disclose the details of any internal investigation into a particular 
member of staffs behaviour.
V did not agree. It wanted to refer the complaint on the basis that the key call recordings had 
not been disclosed. It thought that this may be proof of something untoward. And that if 
Lloyds only provided favourable evidence we might want to draw an inference about that.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that I agree that it was a matter for Lloyds commercial discretion to decide 
whether or not to offer V a bank account. Its clear from the calls I have been able to listen to 
that the relationship manager was the person responsible for this decision. Ive seen 
evidence that Lloyds has looked for all its calls with V and those with the central team are 
the only ones available. I wont be fairly able to draw any inferences from that.
Ive looked at the description of the business model for V. It was a new company  but had 
plans to be a sizeable enterprise from the outset. The directors explained that this meant 
there was some difficulty in finding the right person at Lloyds to talk to  as normally for 
businesses of its size three years of accounts would be expected. I cant fairly comment on 
the tone or service of the relationship manager. But I accept Vs account as likely that he 
was sceptical of its plans and referred to what Lloyds knew about the director. The 
relationship manager did not want to look at this further and I can see why V got the 
impression that he wanted to spend time with other clients. Clearly V did not appreciate the outcome or the way it was delivered. I understand that but 
Im afraid I dont have sufficient evidence to find that Lloyds made a mistake or acted 
unreasonably. So I wont be requiring it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman