DRN-3937925
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received from Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(Inter Partner) when a travel insurance claim was made. 
Any reference to Inter Partner includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr P took out an annual multi-trip family travel insurance policy. It was underwritten 
by Inter Partner. 
While abroad, Mr P submitted a claim as his son suffered an injury and was taken to 
hospital. Inter Partner settled the claim once it had received evidence of the medical 
expenses. 
Mr P made a complaint to Inter Partner about the way the claim was handled. It 
responded and said it accepted the service could have been better and offered £200 
compensation in recognition of this.
Unhappy with Inter Partners response, Mr P brought his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator said he agreed the service was poor. He thought the £200 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and didnt think 
Inter Partner needed to do anything further.  
Mr P disagreed, he asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me. 
He says hes unhappy with the outcome as he doesnt think the complaint has been 
understood and that the process isnt fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Theres no dispute about the settlement of the claim - I understand this has been 
paid now. I therefore wont be commenting further on this.
In terms of the service provided, Ive considered all the information available. I agree 
the service provided could have better.  I can see that delays were caused in the 
processing of the claim and there were times when Inter Partner didnt respond to 
calls and the claim had to be chased. I also understand that it was an upsetting and 
distressing time for Mr P and his family. However, looking at everything, I think £200 
is a fair and reasonable amount for the impact caused. I can see that Inter Partner 
has accepted its failing and apologised which I think is reasonable.
I appreciate Mr P would like more compensation and feels the outcome isnt fair. 
However, we are an informal dispute resolution service. While Mr P thinks he should 
receive more compensation, Id like to point out that our compensation payments are 
modest and are based on what happened. Im satisfied £200 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation.
Overall, based on the available circumstances, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask Inter Partner to increase the compensation 
amount. It follows therefore that I dont think Inter Partner needs to anything further.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman