DRN-1641938
 
The complaint
Mr A says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy was added 
to Mr As credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
If Mr A had made a successful claim on the policy for injury or sickness,  the policy would 
have helped with his monthly credit card payments until the outstanding balance at the date 
of claim was cleared, or until he returned to work - whichever happened first. And it would 
have helped with Mr A's monthly credit card repayments for up to 12 months per successful 
claim for unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
 
The credit card application, which Mr A completed and signed,  included a section 
about PPI, headed Safeguard Your Payments. There was a brief description of the 
cover, and there were equally prominent options to accept or decline it. The Yes 
box is ticked, indicating that Mr A wished to take PPI.
 
I acknowledge that Mr A has suggested that the tick is different from the others on 
the form. Its not immediately obvious to me that thats the case. Im not an expert in 
handwriting analysis, but Mr As assertion that the tick may have been inserted by 
someone else after he completed the form is a serious allegation, and Id need very 
strong evidence to persuade me that this is likely.  
As it is, Mr A completed the form thoroughly, including crossing through sections that 
didn't apply to him. I think its unlikely that he wouldn't have ticked either the yes or 
the no option for PPI. And theres no mark in the no box. I think it would have 
been clear from the form that PPI was optional. And on balance, I think Mr A chose to 
take it  although I can understand how he may no longer remember this, as he filled 
in the form such a long time ago.
 
Mr A applied for the credit card and PPI by post, so its unlikely hed have had any 
direct contact with MBNAs staff when he completed the application, and Im 
satisfied, on balance, that MBNA didn't recommend the PPI to Mr A. This means it 
didn't have to check if it was suitable for him. But it did need to give him clear enough 
information to enable him to decide for himself whether he wanted the cover.
 
I dont think MBNA properly explained the cost of the PPI. It mentioned on the 
application form that it would cost 68p per £100 of the credit card balance. But it 
didn't explain that the premium would be added to Mr As credit card balance and 
could attract interest. It also failed to explain the level of benefit (3% of the statement 
balance) or the fact that Mr A would have to continue paying the premium if he made 
a claim. But on balance, Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr A wouldn't have 
bought the policy anyway, even if better information had been provided.
 
Mr A hasn't been able to confirm what, if any, sick pay or redundancy pay he'd have 
been entitled to from his employer at the time. I dont find that surprising, given how 
long ago the sale took place. But without this information, I cant fairly conclude that 
Mr As existing means were so significant that he didn't need the policy. Whats more, 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr A received from his 
employer. So he could have used those to meet other expenses. 
 
Its true that Mr As told us his family and friends could have helped him financially if 
need be. But circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that Mr As family and 
friends would have been in a position to help, should the need have arisen. So I think 
the PPI policy could have provided Mr A with a useful benefit at what could have 
been a difficult time.
 
I dont think the information MBNA gave Mr A about the PPI was as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr A chose to take 
out the policy. So he appears to have wanted this type of cover, even if hes 
understandably forgotten that now, so many years later. From what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, he wasn't affected by any of the main things the policy 
didn't cover.
 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And since Mr A was 
paying for it monthly, he could have cancelled it any time if his circumstances 
changed, or if he decided he no longer wanted the cover. I note that in its response 
to his complaint, MBNA told Mr A that the last PPI premium was charged to his 
account in January 2001. So it looks as if Mr A did, in fact, cancel the policy when 
hed had it for less than two and half years.  
Taking everything into account, I think it unlikely that Mr A would have made a 
different decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think 
hed still have taken out the policy.
 
Ive taken into account all of Mr As comments, including what hes said about the premiums 
for the PPI not having shown on his statements. He believes that the premiums were hidden 
in the interest figures. And hes provided examples of statements to illustrate what he says. 
But those statements date from many years after MBNA says the last premium was charged. 
So I wouldn't expect a PPI premium to be shown. I think it was clear from the application 
form that there'd be premiums to pay for the PPI.  And Im satisfied, on balance, that the PPI 
premiums would have been clearly identifiable on Mr As statements. 
Mr A also says he never received any policy document. I think its unlikely that no policy 
document was sent to him. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that he chose to take the 
cover. For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive seen nothing to make me think the policy 
didn't provide Mr A with useful cover. And Im not convinced that hed have changed his 
mind about taking out the policy if hed received more information. So Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr A, but these points dont change my conclusion. I dont find that the PPI was mis-sold.
This means MBNA doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But MBNA 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because MBNA didn't tell Mr A, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
  
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman