DRN-2612872
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2005. Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is that First Mortgage Direct Ltd (First Mortgage) mis-sold 
them the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI policy covered Mr F only so Ive mainly considered his circumstances at the time.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
First Mortgage had to make Mr and Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs F have told us that they were told 
they had to take the PPI to get their mortgage. But from the available paperwork I havent 
see enough evidence to suggest the policy wasnt presented as optional, or that Mr F didnt 
choose to have it.
Based on the information available I think First Mortgage recommended the PPI to Mr F, so 
it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr F has told us he cant remember what sick 
pay he was entitled to when he took out the policy, and he could have relied on family to 
help him make his repayments. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any other 
means Mr F had at the time, and although Mr Fs family would have wanted to help, 
circumstances can change, and I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Fs circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
So, I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information First Mortgage gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But I think Mr F chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr F off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F have said, but for the reasons explained above 
these points dont change my decision.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So, First Mortgage doesnt need to refund 
what Mr and Mrs F paid for it.
.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman