DRN-3929403
The complaint
Mrs C complains that her credit score reduced after she applied for credit with Shop Direct 
Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), trading as very. She also complains that her 
account wasnt closed when she asked it to be and that Shop Direct dont provide an email 
address to complain; she says that makes it difficult given her disability. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs C, but I dont think Shop Direct need to take any action here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Shop Direct are obligated to provide information on a consumers credit activity to the credit 
reference agencies. Its expected that they will report when a consumer signs up for a new 
credit agreement. Mrs C used credit to purchase a dress and in those circumstances, I think 
Shop Direct were right to report that. They closed Mrs Cs account, as requested, when her 
balance was reduced to zero, and as it was within the cooling off period I think it was fair for 
them to remove the account details from the credit file. But the credit search needed to 
remain as theres no argument that was necessary.
I dont think Mrs C was prevented from making a complaint in writing, as was her preference. 
She was able to do so through the chatbot and/or the text relay service Shop Direct 
operated. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman