DRN-3437392
The complaint
Ms M complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly declined her 
Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Several reports have been provided relating to this property. Ive also seen a video provided 
by Ms M of the property around the time of purchase.  Ive thoroughly considered these 
alongside everything both Ms M and RSA have said in reaching my decision.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy covers for damage to buildings caused by:
Subsidence or heave of the site on which your buildings stand or of land belonging 
to your buildings, or landslip.
Subsidence is defined as downward movement of the site of which the buildings 
stand  by a cause other than the weight of the building itself.
Ms Ms surveyor identified two possible causes for the movement in their report. One 
was that water leaking from drainage defects could cause soft spots in the ground, 
causing the ground to subside. Alternatively, they said the installation of a concrete 
slab internally, considering the age of the property, was likely to have disturbed the 
foundations. The surveyor noted the foundations were shallow and ground conditions 
were poor.
RSA agreed both suggested causes were possible. But it said it believed it unlikely to 
be defective drainage as water will normally be confined to the drainage 
excavation trench because of the low permeability of clay soils.
In their report, RSA also said 
The overall pattern of movement is consistent with a downwards and outwards 
rotational movement of the front and rear walls of the house whilst the internal 
loadbearing spine has remained relatively unaffected. The downwards element of the 
movement would account for the historic level distortions at first floor, possibly 
initiated by a consolidation settlement of the infill soil under the weight of the building 
structure in the early years following construction. The historic rotational movement 
would account for the gap at underside of first floor skirtings and a weakening of the 
lateral restraint offered by the floor joist as their bearings into/onto the front and rear 
walls are reduced.
In the circumstances, given the information presented to RSA by Ms M, and its 
thoughts on the cause of the movement. I think it was reasonable for RSA to carry 
out monitoring to see if there was progressive movement at the property. This took 
place between November 2020 and June 2021. RSA took four readings in this period 
and offered to carry out two further readings up to October 2021, which Ms M 
declined.
The results of the monitoring show around 1mm of movement. RSA said this is within 
tolerance for properties and doesnt demonstrate progressive subsidence movement. 
It said it believed the distortional and crack damage reported was historic and 
predated the inception of the policy. So it didnt think Ms M had a valid claim.
Considering all of the above Im more persuaded by what RSA has said. I think its 
likely that if defective drainage was causing subsidence, there would be greater 
movement within the monitoring period.
I can also see RSAs report, details it found the main cracking had remained 
comparable to what it had found when it inspected it in 2015. So the cracking had 
appeared to have stabilised. Both 2015 and 2020 reports classed the damage as 
moderate.  
The damage being historic was also identified in the 2015 report and is consistent 
with some of the findings outlined in a 2002 homebuyers survey of the property. 
Although the 2002 report detailed at that time no remedial work was required, it does 
however refer to door frames being out of alignment internally, shrinkage cracks and 
a difference in floor levels - all believed to be resulting from historical movement.
Based on what Ive seen, I think RSA were entitled to rely on the monitoring readings 
and opinion of their appointed experts. Ive seen nothing that leads me to conclude 
the opinion of RSAs expert was unfairly reached or obviously wrong. And based on 
what Ive set above Im more persuaded by what RSA has said about how the 
damage occurred. So, Im not recommending that RSA do anything further.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman