DRN-1797648
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs F complain that Santander UK Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably because 
the surveyor used for their mortgage application didnt find Japanese Knotweed at the 
property. They want compensation to pay for its removal.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs F bought a buy to let property in 2019, using a mortgage from Santander. 
They discovered Japanese knotweed on the property that they said the surveyor should 
have found as theyd received specialist advice that the plant had been present for at least 
two years. 
Mr A and Mrs F complained to Santander. It said the valuation it received didnt mention 
Japanese Knotweed and the valuation had been carried out by an independent valuer. 
Santander said it had asked the valuer about it, and it had been confirmed that he didnt see 
any knotweed and none were in the photos taken. Santander said it hadnt made an error.
Mr A and Mrs F complained to us. The investigators view was that Santander wasnt at fault. 
He said the mortgage valuation report wasnt a survey to be relied upon by customers, and 
this was made clear within the valuation itself. The investigator noted that the valuation didnt 
mention Japanese Knotweed, and he accepted the evidence of the valuer that he didnt see 
it. He said Santander could rely on the advice of a suitably qualified independent valuer and 
it was fair and reasonable for it to proceed with the mortgage in the circumstances.
Mr A and Mrs F didnt agree. They said checking for knotweed was part of carrying out a 
survey.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence available to me, I can see Mr A and Mrs F only got a mortgage valuation 
report. This isnt a survey and isnt for the use of the customers, only the lender. I can see 
Santanders guide for customers makes this clear, as does the valuation itself. 
Mr A and Mrs F shouldnt have relied on the report to tell them the state of the property. This 
was a commercial transaction as a buy to let property was involved and they shouldve paid 
for a survey if they wanted one in order to rely on it about the state of the property.
In any event, the valuation report doesnt mention Japanese Knotweed. Its been carried out 
by a suitably qualified independent valuer, and its fair and reasonable for Santander to rely 
on the information provided by the expert. The valuer has checked his photos and confirmed 
he didnt see any knotweed. Santander isnt responsible for the actions of the valuer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs F to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 December 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman