DRN-4407543
The complaint
Mr W has complained about the way Lloyds Bank PLC handled a claim he made in relation 
to a car he paid for in part using a credit card. 
What happened
Mr W purchased a used car for £3,795 in December 2020 from a car dealer. He paid £795 of 
this using his Lloyds credit card. The car was around 15 years old and had covered around 
54,000 miles when Mr W bought it. It looks like the car came with a 3 month or 3,000-mile 
warranty, and a pre-sale check was carried out by the supplying dealer. Evidence indicates 
the car had a service and timing chain replacement carried out when it was sold as well. 
From what Ive seen when buying the car Mr W noted the MOT wasnt valid for very long and 
he said a wing mirror wasnt folding in. So he allowed the supplying dealer some time to put 
things right. He said he had to amend the car tax because it was under disabled car tax at 
the time, and he was only given one spare key and part service history. He was reassured 
the timing chain had been changed. He said the pre-sales checklist wasnt signed by him 
and that the supplying dealer wasnt able to repair the wing mirror, so it was disconnected. 
Mr W says a few days later he needed to buy a new battery and he said he had to claim 
through cover because the alarm wasnt working. Hes also highlighted other repairs he had 
carried out. 
From what Ive seen, the car broke down in around April 2022 and it was taken to a garage 
for inspection. The mileage was around 60,000.
I can see in July 2022 Mr W put in a complaint about the quality of the car with the supplying 
dealer. He said that as there was a problem with the goods, he wanted a full refund.  
Mr W took the car to a manufacturer dealer in October 2022 for inspection due to a knocking 
noise from the engine. The manufacturer dealer said there was excessive movement on big 
end shells and lots of debris in sump of bearing material. It gave an estimate to supply a 
second-hand bottom end and rebuild head with new valve seals of around £1,600. In 
October 2022, the manufacturer dealer gave a quote to replace the engine for around 
£4,000. I understand Mr W also contacted Lloyds around this time to put in a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And I understand he told it that the plastic 
guides werent changed when the timing chain was replaced which has caused the knocking 
noise in the engine. The notes Ive seen indicate he said hed needed to change the brakes 
and pay to have the car recovered. 
Lloyds said it requested information from Mr W and it declined the claim in November 2022 
due to lack of evidence. Lloyds said Mr W was unhappy with this and it gave him £65 
compensation because Mr W had said he wasnt notified of the claim outcome and that 
some of his emails to Lloyds had bounced back. Mr W supplied evidence, but Lloyds 
declined the claim again in January 2023 due to lack of evidence the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of sale. Mr W was unhappy with the outcome, and he 
raised a complaint. Lloyds issued a final response in May 2023 saying it agreed the section 
75 claim was fairly declined because Mr W hadnt shown it the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale. But it paid Mr W £75 because it didnt call him back when 
promised. Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.  
One of our investigators looked into things and said Lloyds response to the claim broadly 
seemed fair, and that the compensation it paid also seemed reasonable. Mr W didnt agree, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr W and Lloyds that Ive 
reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not because I havent 
considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers 
allow me to do this. 
What I need to consider is whether Lloyds  as a provider of financial services  has acted 
fairly and reasonably in the way it handled Mr Ws request for getting his money back. Its 
important to note Lloyds isnt the supplier. Ive gone on to think about the specific card 
protections that are available. In situations like this, Lloyds can consider assessing a claim 
under section 75 or raising a chargeback.
Section 75 is a statutory protection that enables Mr W to make a like claim against Lloyds for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an 
agreement it had with him for the provision of goods or services. But there are certain 
conditions that need to be met for section 75 to apply. I think those necessary conditions 
exist for a claim to be considered. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a card issuer to ask for a payment to be 
refunded in certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the 
relevant card scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
The chargeback process would only cover Mr W for the amount paid on his card. As his 
claim was for more than this amount, I think it was fair of Lloyds to consider the claim under 
section 75. So this is what Ill focus on. And for the avoidance of doubt, Im only considering 
how it acted up to the point it issued its final response because this relates to the events its 
had the chance to consider. Any complaints about things that have happened after this point 
would need to be taken up with Lloyds in the first instance. And if Mr W is unhappy with its 
response, it might be something our service is able to consider for him. I think this is 
important to note because there has been some more recent communication about the claim 
between the parties, and I can see Mr W has raised separate complaints. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to the complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA also sets 
out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods contract are 
not met. 
The CRA sets out that goods which do not conform to the contract at any time within the 
period of six months beginning with the day on which the goods were delivered to the 
consumer must be taken not to have conformed to it on that day unless its established the 
goods did conform to the contract on that day or that the application is incompatible with the 
nature of the goods or with how they fail to conform to the contract. 
The car was used when Mr W bought it, so Id have different expectations of it than if it was 
new. It was around 15 years old and had covered around 54,000 miles. Mr W paid £3,795 
for it. Which is a lot less than it would have cost if it was new. The price paid broadly reflects 
the age and condition of the car. And theres a higher likelihood of things going wrong on an 
older, more used car than one that was newer, and would likely have cost more. I appreciate 
Mr W says he had some issues when he bought the car but, from what hes said, he was 
happy to proceed with the purchase at the time. Hes also highlighted various repairs he had 
carried out but didnt supply further supporting evidence to Lloyds. 
I can see there were faults with the car. Mr W supplied evidence it broke down. And hes 
also supplied evidence of quotes for repair work. But in order for me to find thered been a 
breach of contract that Lloyds would be liable for Id need to see firstly that there are faults 
with the car, and secondly that those faults made the car of unsatisfactory quality when it 
was sold to Mr W. The problem I have is that Ive not seen enough evidence to determine 
thats the case. I take on board Mr Ws point that something wasnt done when the timing 
chain was replaced. But Ive not seen any independent evidence that the current issues with 
the car were present or developing at the point of sale. 
Ive reviewed the documentation that Mr W supplied to Lloyds. These include MOT history; 
complaint letters from Mr W; the cars advert; a sales invoice; a sale inspection; limited 
service history; quotes for repair; engine photos; warranty record and payments for the 
warranty; a breakdown of costs; a V70 form to apply to change vehicle tax; the V5C 
registration certificate; and a vehicle health check. But these documents dont show that, on 
balance, any faults with the car were as a result of something that made it of unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of sale given its age and mileage. 
Given Mr W had the car for nearly two years by the point he put in his claim with Lloyds, I 
think the onus was on Mr W to show that there were faults with the car and that those faults 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality. The car was around 17 years old when Mr W put in 
his claim and had covered around a further 5,000 miles, which I think indicates it was likely 
of satisfactory quality given its age and mileage at the point of sale, even taking into account 
the repairs Mr W says he had carried out. While I sympathise there were issues with the car, 
I dont think the documents he supplied, during the period Im considering, do enough to 
show there was a breach of contract that Lloyds would be liable for. And based on what Ive 
seen, I think Lloyds allowed enough time for Mr W supply his evidence. It reopened the 
dispute after initially closing it down and went through what Mr W was able to supply. Based 
on that further submission it didnt think there was enough to uphold the claim. And for the 
reasons Ive given above, I havent seen enough to say that its response to the claim was 
unfair.
I can see Lloyds made two payments to Mr W in relation to its handling of the claim. £75 for 
not calling him back when agreed, and £65 because Mr W said he wasnt informed of its 
decision. I think those payments seem broadly fair and reflective of the mistakes made. But I 
dont find I have the grounds to direct Lloyds to do more. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman