DRN-4237382
Complaint
Mr J has complained about a loan Metro Bank PLC (trading as Ratesetter) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and therefore shouldnt have been given to him in the 
first place.
Background
Ratesetter provided Mr J with a loan of £19,000.00 in September 2022. This loan had a 60- 
month term and an APR of 7.9%. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£22,930.80, which included a loan fee of £950 and interest of £2,980.80, was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £382.18. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr J and Ratesetter had told us. And she thought 
that Ratesetter hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr J unfairly when agreeing to lend to 
Mr J. So she didnt recommend that Mr Js complaint be upheld. Mr J disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Js complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Ratesetter needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Ratesetter needed to reasonable steps and carry out proportionate checks in order to be 
able to understand whether Mr J could afford the monthly repayments before providing this 
loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ratesetter says it agreed to Mr Js application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. In its view, all of this information showed Mr J 
could comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr J has 
said he shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr J and Ratesetter have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this was Mr Js first loan with Ratesetter. The information 
provided does suggest Mr J was asked to provide some details regarding his income and 
expenditure and Ratesetter didnt just rely on what it was told as it carried out credit 
searches too. Ratesetter has provided a copy of the credit search that it carried out and its 
fair to say that Mr J had had previous difficulties with credit. 
I can see some payday lending from 2018 and 2019 and previous examples of Mr J 
exceeding his credit limit and making late payments around this time too. But this occured 
more than three years prior to this application taking place. And I wouldnt have expected 
Ratesetter to have placed as much weight on Mr Js issues in 2018 and 2019 given his more 
recent repayment record was good and there wasnt anything else to show any obvious 
signs of difficulty. 
For the sake of completeness, Id add that I dont agree Mr Js existing balances was in itself 
an indication of difficulty given his income and the fact that he stated that the purpose of this 
loan was debt consolidation. I accept that Mr Js actual circumstances may not have been 
fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Ratesetter obtained. 
However, Ratesetter could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had 
available at the time. 
So Im satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could and should have been used to reduce  
Mr Js existing balances. And I dont think it fair and reasonable to hold Ratesetter 
responsible should Mr J have decided against using this loan to repay his existing balances 
in the way that he committed to. 
I say this as this was a first loan Ratesetter was providing to Mr J and there wasnt a history 
of him obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way he 
committed to. So Im satisfied that Ratesetter was reasonably entitled to believe that Mr J 
would use the loan for the stated purpose and be left in a better position.
In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought about what Mr J has said about the loan fee and the 
APR of this loan. I agree that the total cost of the credit is one of a number of factors that a 
lender needs to take into account when determining the level of checks that should be 
carried out before a borrower is provided with a loan. But I dont agree that Ratesetters loan 
fee in itself meant that further checks were necessary, particularly as the loan fee was 
reflected in the APR of 7.9% (which was based on based on the total cost of the credit rather 
than just the interest) and the amount of Mr Js monthly payments. 
Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
firm did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I think that Ratesetter was entitled to rely on what it had been told and what 
it had found out. As this is the case, I dont think that Ratesetter did anything wrong when 
lending to Mr J - it carried out proportionate checks (although I accept Mr J doesnt agree 
with this) and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the repayments were 
affordable. 
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Ratesetter treated   
Mr J unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Js 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr J. But I hope hell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman