DRN-4467518
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy about several aspects of the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc,
trading as Virgin Money, surrounding his request to switch his accounts to another provider.
What happened
Mr R instructed a current account switch from his Virgin to another provider. The other
provider requested the switch from Virgin, but Virgin didnt complete the switch as requested.
Mr R contacted Virgin about this and manually transferred some of his money while on the
phone with one of Virgins agents. The Virgin agent Mr R spoke with agreed to transfer his
remaining money to the new provider the next day, but this didnt happen. Mr R wasnt
happy about this, or that Virgin didnt then close his account with them and processed a
direct debit that should have been moved to his new provider. So, he raised a complaint.
Virgin responded to Mr R and noted that the new provider wasnt a party to the current
account switch guarantee which meant the new provider would have had to request a
transfer manually. And Virgin had no record of receiving a request from the new provider to
move his money over to them.
Virgin also noted that it had been explained to Mr R on the telephone when he moved
money to his new provider that he would need to call back the following day to move the rest
of the money, which he hadnt done. And Virgin confirmed that theyd sent details of all the
direct debits and standing orders on Mr Rs account to the new provider at Mr Rs request.
However, Virgin did acknowledge that they didnt close Mr Rs account with them when they
should have done, which led to a direct debit payment being made from the account which
shouldnt have been, which in turn caused Mr R to incur adverse credit file reporting. And
Virgin apologised to Mr R for not dealing with his complaint in a timely manner. Virgin made
payments totalling £175 to Mr R as compensation for the above and removed the adverse
reporting from his credit file. And Virgin also reimbursed £1.39 interest Mr R had incurred on
his Virgin account when it was overdrawn because of the wrongly paid direct debit.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Virgins response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One
of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt Virgins response to Mr Rs
complaint already represented a fair resolution to what had happened. Mr R remained
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 October 2023, as follows:
Mr R has explained that he requested a switch of his accounts from Virgin to the new
provider, but that Virgin didnt initially act on the request to switch his accounts as they
should have done.
When an account switch takes place, the bank to which the account will be moved contacts
the bank which presently hold the account to request the switch. This means that, in this
instance, it was the responsibility of the new provider that Mr R wanted to move his accounts
to, to have contacted Virgin and initiated the switch of Mr Rs accounts. Additionally, given
that the new provider wasnt a member of the current account switch guarantee scheme at
the time in question, this meant that the new provider would have had to have requested the
manual transfer of Mr Rs accounts.
Virgin explained to Mr R in their response to his complaint that they have no record of
receiving such a request from his new provider. And while Mr R has said in his
correspondence with this service that he has proof that his new provider did contact Virgin to
request the switch when he says that they did, he hasnt provided this proof to this service
since referring his complaint to us in March 2023. As such, I dont feel that there is
compelling or sufficient reason for me to conclude that Virgin did receive a switch request
from the new provider, but then failed to act on that request.
Additionally, Ive listened to the telephone call between Mr R and Virgins agent when he
called about his money not being moved as hed requested and when he moved a portion of
his money from Virgin to the new provider. And having done so, I feel its clear from that call
that Virgins agent did explain to Mr R that he would need to call Virgin again the following
day to instruct the movement of the remainder of his money from Virgin to the new provider.
Indeed, Virgins agent explained to Mr R that she would leave a note of what needed to be
done on the file in case Mr R spoke to an agent other than her when he called Virgin back
the next day.
As such, I wont be upholding these aspects of Mr Rs complaint. This is because I dont feel
it has been reasonably demonstrated that it was Virgin, and not the new provider, that made
the error regarding the initial request to move Mr Rs accounts not being actioned as he
expected. And because I feel the reason the second portion of Mr Rs money wasnt moved
to the new provider when he wanted was because he didnt call Virgin back to instruct that
transfer, which it was explained to him that he would need to by Virgins agent.
Mr R is also unhappy that, when Virgin did move to transfer his accounts to the new
provider, they didnt transfer the direct debits and standing orders that were present on his
account correctly. But Virgin have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that, when
they received a request to do so, they did send the new provider the details of all the direct
debits and standing orders on Mr Rs account. And I dont feel that Virgin should fairly be
considered responsible for whether those direct debits and standing orders were set up
correctly, following the provision of the information about them by Virgin to the new provider.
However, Virgin have acknowledged that they didnt close Mr Rs account when they should
have done which led to a direct debit being paid which shouldnt have been paid and which
led to Mr Rs account going into an overdrawn position and being reported as such to the
credit reference agencies.
When a bank makes a mistake, its generally expected by this service that the bank would
take the corrective action required to return the complainant to the position they should have
been in, had the error never occurred. To a large degree, I believe that Virgin have done that
here. And I say this because theyve corrected Mr Rs credit file reporting so that it as if his
account never went into an overdrawn position and because theyve reimbursed £1.39 of
interest that was incurred on the account because it was overdrawn.
However, Virgin have also confirmed to this service that Mr Rs account had incurred £12 of
charges because it was in an overdrawn position, as well as further interest of £1.40. Virginhave offered to reimburse these amounts to Mr R also, which I feel would be fair. And so, Ill
be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr Rs favour on the limited basis that Virgin
should reimburse a further £13.40 to him, as a sum of the amounts discussed above.
Virgin have also made payments of £175 to Mr R, primarily as compensation for not closing
his account when they should have done. Im aware that Mr R feels that a larger award of
compensation is merited here, but I feel the £175 that Virgin have already offered to Mr R
does represent fair compensation for this specific aspect of his complaint.
In taking this position Ive considered that this compensation is primarily for Virgin not closing
Mr Rs account when they should have done, and not about other aspects about which Mr R
has complained  such as that Virgin didnt act to transfer his accounts when first requested
or didnt transfer the remainder of his money when he expected  which as explained above
are aspects of Mr Rs complaint that I do not uphold.
Ive considered the specific impact of Virgin not closing Mr Rs account when they should
have done on Mr R, and also the general framework which this service uses when assessing
compensation amounts for upset and inconvenience  further details of which can be found
on this services website. And, having done so, I feel that Virgin have already paid a fair level
of compensation to Mr R here and so I wont be instructing them to pay any further
compensation as he would like. Additionally, I can also confirm that this service doesnt
consider any hourly or daily rate which a complainant asks this service to take into account
when assessing fair compensation. This is because this service doesnt consider any one
persons time to be any more or less valuable than any other persons time.
Finally, I note that Mr R is unhappy with how Virgin have handled his complaint. However, as
per the rules by which this service must abide  which can be found in the Dispute
Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  this
service is only able to consider complaints about specified activities, of which complaint
handling isnt one. In short, this service cant consider a complaint about how a business has
handled a complaint. And this means that this aspect of Mr Rs complaint isnt one that its
within my remit to consider.
All of which means that I feel that Virgins response to Mr Rs complaint does, for the large
part, already represent a fair outcome to what has happened here. However, as explained
above, I will be provisionally upholding this complaint to instruct Virgin to honour their offer of
£175 compensation to Mr R  if they havent already done so  and to instruct Virgin to
reimburse a further £13.40 to Mr R, as described above.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr R and Virgin the opportunity to respond and 
to provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved 
to issue a final decision. Virgin confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional 
decision, whereas Mr R did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision here in which I uphold this complaint in 
Mr Rs favour on the limited basis described above. And I therefore confirm that my final 
decision is that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly. 
Putting things right
If they havent done so already, Virgin must pay £175 compensation to Mr R, as per their 
offer to do so.
Virgin must also reimburse £13.40 to Mr R.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman