DRN-4321324
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) unreasonably 
delayed her cash ISA transfer.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mrs V gave instruction for her cash ISA to be transferred from Tesco Bank to another 
bank. The process was completed within the 15 working day timeframe thats been set 
for cash ISA transfers. But Tesco accepts it could have been completed sooner but for 
mistakes it made when checking and verifying Mrs Vs details after receiving the transfer 
request.
Tesco offered £100 compensation to recognise both the inconvenience Mrs V was 
caused having to call both banks to sort things out and the interest shed lost out on.
Our investigator thought Tesco had taken appropriate steps to put things right, but Mrs V 
disagreed. She thinks Tesco ought to have taken better care given the ongoing concerns 
shed raised about the mistakes it has made over the years relating to her surname.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigator that, while it caused unnecessary delays, the 
bank has already done enough to put things right.
Ive previously considered another complaint from Mrs V about the problems shes had 
because Tesco Banks operating systems were unable to record her full surname. And those 
issues are also what caused the delay with this ISA transfer. I appreciate Mrs V spent a 
considerable amount of time on the phone trying to sort things out and that the problems 
with the ISA transfer have added to the frustration shes been caused over the years. 
But I dont agree with Mrs Vs suggestion that Tesco Bank acted inappropriately by moving 
the money from her maturing ISA into an easy access ISA. This was done in accordance 
with the process set out in the letter Tesco Bank sent Mrs V prior to maturity. Tesco Bank 
also explained what Mrs V needed to do if she wanted her money to go into a different 
account. It also seems clear that Mrs V was planning on transferring her money to a different 
provider as her instruction to do so was presented the day after her existing ISA matured.
Ive carefully considered what compensation Mrs V thinks she should be paid. This includes 
that Mrs V initially told us she might lose out on receiving a £50 voucher from the new ISA 
provider, due to Tesco Banks delays. But the evidence she subsequently provided indicates 
the £50 voucher was made available. So theres no additional financial loss there for me to 
consider. Theres also no evidence to support her assertion that she paid £50 in phone call 
charges.
Mrs V also says the lost interest amounts to £100. But I think Nationwide has fairly assessed 
any loss of interest Mrs V may have suffered. 
Overall, I think a total award of £100 represents fair and reasonable compensation in all the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. Its my understanding that the compensation has 
not yet been paid to Mrs V because she has now closed all of her accounts with Tesco 
Bank.
Finally, I note Mrs V has complained that she asked Tesco Bank, in January 2023, about the 
early exit penalties relating to her ISA. She says Tesco Bank mis-advised her in this respect. 
But she hasnt complained to Tesco about that matter and given them a chance to 
investigate and, if appropriate, to put things right. So I cant consider that matter as part of 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) should pay 
£100 compensation to Mrs V if it has not already done so. It should do so within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it that Mrs V accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman