DRN-3784495
The complaint
Miss B complains about the valuation that Admiral insurance Company Limited offered for 
her car in settlement of a claim made on her motor insurance policy. She wants this 
increased. 
What happened
Miss B was involved in an incident and her car was deemed to be beyond economical repair. 
Admiral made Miss B an offer in settlement for the loss of her car, but Miss B thought this 
was too low. Admiral increased its offer to £14,930, less the policy excess, as the cars pre-
accident market value. But Miss B thought this didnt take into account the cars optional 
extras, its service history and its condition. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral had 
responded promptly when Miss B complained about its valuation. But he thought Admiral 
should have looked in all four trade guides we use for the cars pre-accident market value 
and taken into account the cars optional extras. He did this and found the average of the 
valuations to be £15,131.50. And so he thought Admirals valuation was unreasonable. He 
thought it should offer Miss B a further £201.50 in settlement of her claim, with interest. 
Admiral replied that its valuation was within the range the Investigator had found in the 
guides. And it thought, in keeping with our approach, that it didnt need to increase this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss B wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. Shes told us 
about the cars optional extras, its condition and its service history. I can see that her policy 
provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Admirals valuation of Miss Bs car was unreasonable. So Ive 
checked how he came to this conclusion. I can see that Admiral didnt take into account the 
cars factory-fitted optional extras. And it looked for the cars market value in just two of the 
trade guides we use. I dont think this was fair as this could have disadvantaged Miss B.
Our Investigator then checked the four trade guides we use for cars of the same make, 
model, age, mileage, condition and optional extras as Miss Bs car at the date of its loss. The 
extras increased the value in just one guide, which I think isnt unusual as they depreciate 
over time. The cars service history wouldnt increase the valuations as this is essentially 
maintenance of the cars value. And I can see that no deductions were made for condition, 
which I think is fair and reasonable.
The four pre-accident valuations of Miss Bs car were within a close range. So Im satisfied 
that the Investigator then acted in keeping with our approach when he took an average of 
these. The result was a valuation that was £201.50 higher than Admirals offer. 
I accept that Admirals final offer was within the range of valuations found by the Investigator. 
And our approach is usually that this is fair and reasonable. But car valuations arent an 
exact science, and I need to consider what is fair and reasonable in Miss Bs particular 
circumstances. And I think, given that Admirals offer was at the bottom of the range found 
by the Investigator, that taking an average of the valuations would provide a fairer outcome 
for Miss B. 
So Im satisfied that a reasonable valuation of Miss Bs car would be £15,131.50 and Admiral 
should pay Miss B £201.50 further in settlement of her claim. Miss B has been without her 
money for some time. So I think Admiral should reasonably add interest to this further 
settlement from the date of the initial offer. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral insurance Company Limited to pay Miss B £201.50 further in settlement of 
her claim for the loss of her car. It should add interest to this amount from the date of its 
initial offer (23 June 2022) to the date of payment. 
If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give Miss B a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman