DRN-2010685
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was mis-sold a single premium PPI policy with a personal loan by 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
What happened
Mrs H took out a loan for £1,500 to be repaid over 36 months in 1995. The main purpose of 
the loan was to buy a second-hand car. At the same time as taking the loan, she took out a 
single premium PPI policy. That policy cost her £218.09 and covered her for the duration of 
the 36 months loan.
Mrs H complained to our service about the mis-sale of PPI, after complaining to Bank of 
Scotland and it not upholding her complaint. Our adjudicator looked into Mrs Hs complaint, 
and did not uphold it. Mrs H asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. As 
agreement couldnt be reached Mrs Hs complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland had to make it clear to Mrs H that the PPI was optional and that she didnt 
have to take it to get the loan. Mrs H also had to agree to take the cover for it to be added.
Bank of Scotland has told us, Mrs Hs original credit agreement is no longer available. Banks 
often only keep records for six years. But, it has given us a copy of the credit agreement it 
says the bank was using at the time the loan was taken out and the PPI sold to Mrs H. I think 
it likely that Bank of Scotland wouldve used a credit agreement like this when selling the PPI 
to Mrs H, so, I have taken that into account when deciding this case. 
Looking at the credit agreement, I can see that it was made clear that PPI was optional. The 
separate cost of it was included and it was open to the consumer to take the loan with or 
without PPI. So, I think the optional nature of PPI was made clear to Mrs H and she likely 
opted to take it.
Bank of Scotland accepts that it recommended this policy to Mrs H which means it had the 
added responsibility of considering whether the policy was right for her in her circumstances. 
It also had to give Mrs H information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could 
make an informed choice herself about whether to buy PPI.
Based on what Ive seen I think the policy appeared suitable for Mrs H. I say this because:
Mrs H was eligible to take out the cover given her personal circumstances;
Mrs H said she wouldve got around three months worth of sick pay through work. 
The PPI wouldve covered her loan repayments for the full term if she was off work 
sick or for up to 12 months if she was made unemployed. So, I think it couldve 
provided her with valuable protection for longer than her work benefits wouldve 
covered her for;
Mrs H said her parents couldve helped with her repayments. But, help of this kind 
cant always be guaranteed when the time comes, so I havent placed much reliance 
on this;
I cant see that Mrs H was affected by the main limitations or exclusions in the policy 
making it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. So, as she couldve 
benefitted from everything the policy offered, I cant see that PPI was unsuitable;
The PPI appeared affordable and the cost of it was likely included on the credit 
agreement she signed at the time, if it was the same as the one I have seen.
Mrs H wouldnt have got a proportionate refund if she cancelled her policy early. 
However, I cant see that it wouldve been clear at the outset that Mrs H needed the 
flexibility to cancel her policy early. So, I dont think the cancellation terms were 
obviously unsuitable for her.  
Its possible that Bank of Scotland couldve given Mrs H clearer information about the policy, 
but I cant see that even if it had, it wouldve affected her decision to take PPI. I say this 
because she likely opted to take PPI, having been told she didnt have to have it, and it was 
suitable in her circumstances for the reasons Ive given.
 
So, I cant see that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the PPI policy to Mrs H and so I make no 
award.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman