DRN-3178447
The complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society allowed for additional borrowing to be taken 
on his mortgage with his former wife without his knowledge. 
He is represented in this matter by Ms S.
What happened
Mr P has a mortgage with Nationwide in joint names with his former wife. Mr P, along with 
his former wife, took out a further advance in December 2017 for £46,000. He says he was 
aware of this and consented to it at the time. 
In March 2018 another further advance of £16,000 was taken. Mr P says he didnt know 
about this until recent divorce proceedings. He complains that Nationwide allowed this to be 
taken without his knowledge and that, as the sole earner, he was making mortgage 
repayments on further borrowing that he was unaware of. 
Nationwide responded to the complaint. It said that whilst the initial appointment was held in 
branch with just Mr Ps former wife, it would have called Mr P to discuss the mortgage offer 
and confirm his acceptance. It also said it sent paperwork confirming this and that the funds 
were released into the joint bank account that Mr P held with his former wife. 
Mr P brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator considered it but didnt think that 
Nationwide had acted unfairly. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn of the circumstances that have been outlined and can appreciate that this 
has been a difficult time for Mr P. I understand that Mr Ps former wife dealt with most of their 
financial affairs. 
Mr P has said that he had no knowledge of the further advance of £16,000 that he complains 
about and only found out about this recently, during divorce proceedings. 
In response to the complaint, Nationwide acknowledged that it was only Mr Ps former wife 
that attended the appointment to discuss taking the further borrowing. I dont consider this 
unusual  its common for one party to deal with a couples financial affairs. But I accept that 
Mr P may not have been aware of the application at this point. 
Whilst Id expect Nationwide to act on the instructions of one party, in accordance with the 
terms of the joint mortgage, it would need to inform the other party of the additional 
borrowing and explain the terms. 
Ive considered the copies of correspondence that Nationwide sent to Mr P and his former 
wife and can see that these were addressed to both parties. Ms S has said that these would 
have been intercepted by Mr Ps former wife and whilst I have no reason to doubt this  I 
dont think I can fairly hold Nationwide accountable if this was the case. 
This is a joint mortgage and Ive not seen anything to suggest that Nationwide were told that 
there was a dispute between the parties at the time. 
Unfortunately, Nationwide hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call it said it made to 
Mr P to discuss the mortgage and gain his acceptance of the terms. Mr P has said that he 
cannot recall being contacted. 
But Nationwide also said that it sent text messages to Mr P to update him on the progress of 
the application. Ive seen screenshots to evidence that these were sent to the same mobile 
number that Mr P has listed on the complaint form for this service, and so I consider it likely 
that these were delivered.
I think that Mr P could have questioned these if they related to an application, he was 
unaware of. Im also aware that its not in dispute that the funds for the further advance were 
paid into Mr P and his former wifes joint account. And so, I think that Mr P could have asked 
where this money came from and contacted Nationwide. 
Im also mindful that it was only a matter of months prior that additional borrowing had been 
taken on the mortgage, with Mr Ps consent. I cant see that Nationwide were told that there 
was a dispute between the parties and so Im not persuaded that there would have been 
anything to alert it to the fact that Mr P was unaware or didnt consent to this further 
borrowing. As a result, I wouldnt expect it to take any further action to ensure that Mr P 
knew about the application and agreed to the additional borrowing.
This was a further advance taken out on a joint mortgage, secured against a property in joint 
names and as Ive said, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Nationwide were informed of 
any dispute between Mr P and his former wife or that this was being taken without Mr Ps 
knowledge. 
At its heart, this is a dispute between Mr P and his former wife. He considers that she was 
able to take these funds without his knowledge or agreement. I understand that Mr P and his 
former wife are going through divorce proceedings. As part of a divorce, there is a financial 
resolution procedure, and its through that process that the court would decide how their 
assets and liabilities should be divided up. I think that thats the appropriate forum for 
deciding who should be responsible for this further advance.
I can appreciate that Mr P is upset and frustrated by what has happened. But I have to 
separate what Nationwide is responsible for from what his former wife may be responsible 
for. Nationwide communicated with both parties and as it was not informed of any dispute 
between the parties, I dont consider that it treated Mr P unfairly here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman