DRN-3428075
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA), declined a claim made 
under their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs C had a private medical insurance policy through her employer. In 2012, whilst covered 
under this policy, she was diagnosed with a particular type of breast cancer, and the 
treatment for this was covered by the policy.
Mrs C later left this employment. And so instead of having a private medical insurance 
through her employer, she joined Mr Cs private medical insurance, through his employer. 
This medical insurance was with one insurer, and then in 2016 moved to AXA.
Mr and Mrs C were sent their membership certificate for this policy. On this it noted the cover 
for those insured was based on continuing medical exclusion terms. This meant that the 
policy included the same medical exclusions as were present before the policy changed 
insurer. Its my understanding this medical certificate was sent to Mr and Mrs C each year. 
In terms of Mrs C, the medical certificate noted this meant there was no benefit payable for 
any investigations and treatment related to Breast cancer and conditions arising therefrom or 
therewith.
Mr and Mrs C have explained that in 2021, Mrs C was diagnosed with a new and separate 
form of breast cancer to the type she had before. Treatment was recommended for this. And 
so, Mr and Mrs C contacted AXA, to claim under their private medical insurance policy.
AXA declined to provide cover for the claim. It said the policy didnt cover investigations or 
treatment for breast cancer. And so, it wasnt able to offer any settlement under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C didnt consider this to be fair. They highlighted that the cancer diagnosed in 
2021 was different to that diagnosed in 2012. And they said their membership booklet 
explained that new cancers were covered under the policy.
AXA maintained its position on the claim. And so, Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
acknowledged that Mrs C did have two different types of breast cancer, based on the 
medical information supplied. But said that the policy contained an exclusion specific to Mrs 
C, which excluded all cover for investigations and treatments related to breast cancer. And 
they felt this exclusion was clear. Our investigator noted that it wasnt for them to tell AXA 
what it should and shouldnt cover. And so, they didnt think AXA had done anything wrong 
in declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. In summary they said:
The medical certificate contained the exclusion for breast cancer under the heading 
your cover for existing medical conditions. Mrs C didnt have cancer at the time the 
certificates were sent, this having been treated in 2012 and resolved.  
The policy defined what a pre-existing condition was, and Mrs Cs situation didnt fall 
into that definition. 
The membership booklet explained that new cancers were covered by the insurance 
policy. And the cancer Mrs C was diagnosed with in 2021 was a different, and new 
cancer. 
A leading cancer charity details advice about insurance following or with cancer. And 
noted that the insurer should consider the specific risk factors to the consumer, 
based on health-related questions and medical evidence. They said AXA hadnt 
done this or provided any evidence to back its risk assessment up. They didnt feel 
Mrs C had been treated fairly in light of this.
Because Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs C  its clear they feel strongly about the matter. And I can 
appreciate why. But Id like to reassure them, and AXA, that Ive considered all their 
submissions when coming to my decision. However, in this decision Ive only referred to 
what I consider necessary to illustrate my reasoning.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct 
Authority, say that an insurer mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether AXA, in declining Mr and Mrs Cs claim, did so unreasonably. And I dont think it did. 
I say this because Im satisfied AXA acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and 
Mrs Cs policy. Ive seen Mr and Mrs Cs policy documents, which detail the cover the policy 
provides. And Im aware it explains that Mrs C isnt covered for any investigations or 
treatment related to breast cancer.
This is explained in the membership certificate specific to Mr and Mrs C. Under the section 
your cover for existing medical conditions it says that for Mrs C:
No benefit is payable for any investigations and treatment related to Breast cancer and 
conditions arising therefrom or therewith.
Because of the above exclusion, when Mrs C underwent investigations and was diagnosed 
with breast cancer in 2021, Im satisfied AXA acted reasonably in saying the costs for this 
werent payable. So, I dont require it do anything differently in this regard.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C dont feel the outcome of the claim was fair. Theyve said the 
membership certificate, when referring to an exclusion for breast cancer, is talking about pre-
existing medical conditions, given it sits under the heading your cover for existing medical 
conditions. Theyve said the breast cancer Mrs C was diagnosed with wasnt existing  
because it was a different type of breast cancer, in a different location to before. 
It isnt disputed that Mrs Cs diagnosis in 2021 was for a new cancer, that was different to the 
one diagnosed and treated in 2012. It was of a different type, and in a different area of the 
breast. Ive thought about this point. But I dont think it changes the outcome of this 
complaint. Im satisfied the exclusion is clear in its meaning, even with the title mentioned above. 
Essentially, the document makes it sufficiently clear that investigations and treatment for all 
breast cancer isnt covered. Im aware this has been on the membership certificate every 
year, from when AXA took over the insurance in 2016. So, Mr and Mrs C have been made 
aware of the limits of the policy in terms of breast cancer. Or, if they had concerns about the 
scope of the exclusion it was open to them to query it with AXA before renewing each year. 
Mr and Mrs C have also looked at the membership booklet, and what it says under the 
cancer section of the policy. And I acknowledge this section says it covers new cancers. But 
the membership booklet is a generic document, detailing all terms and conditions, to be read 
in line with the membership certificate. Together they form the policy. And Mr and Mrs Cs 
policy specifically excludes breast cancer. So, the cancer section wouldnt apply in the same 
way when it comes to breast cancer.
Mr and Mrs C have said they dont consider excluding all breast cancer to be fair. They feel it 
is too broad an exclusion for AXA to apply. But I dont consider AXA has done anything 
wrong here. As an insurer, AXA is entitled to decide what risks it is willing to cover  and 
what risks it doesnt want to provide a benefit for. And that is what it has done here.
When excluding something as potentially far-reaching is this, the requirement is for AXA to 
ensure the lack of cover in this area is made clear. So, Ive thought carefully about whether 
AXA has been clear here  and Im satisfied it has. By placing this exclusion in the 
membership certificate, which provides details of the specific cover to Mr and Mrs C, it 
ensured the exclusion was clearly visible  so Mr and Mrs C could make sure the cover was 
right for them. So, I dont think AXA has done anything wrong in this regard.
In light of the above, I dont find AXAs decision to decline Mr and Mrs Cs claim 
unreasonable.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman