DRN-3276383
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly turned 
down his claim for subsidence damage under his home insurance policy.
All references to LV include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mr B made a claim under his home insurance policy with LV for damage to an outbuilding at 
his property. LV appointed a loss adjuster (M) to validate the claim and determine the cause 
of the damage, which was initially suggested to be linked to subsidence.
M remotely surveyed the damage and stated The cause of damage is not clear from our 
initial inspection and further investigations will be requiredThe pattern and nature of the 
cracks is indicative of an episode of subsidence. The cause of movement appears to be clay 
shrinkage.
In regard to displaced roof timbers in the outbuilding M added, The pattern of distress is 
indicative of roof spread. This is a commonly encountered problem in older properties where 
there (a) is no restraint, or tie, at the head of the wall and (b) may have been some change 
in loading.
M arranged for site investigations and monitoring. This included a trial pit and soil 
excavations to determine if nearby vegetation should be implicated as a cause of ground 
movement.
Mr B was unhappy with the progress of the claim and complained. He said no-one had 
inspected the outbuilding and it was potentially dangerous due to the damaged walls and 
roof. So, M attended the site for a further survey. M concluded LV should accept the claim 
and engaged contractors to scope the repairs.
The contractors engaged the services of a structural engineer (J) to obtain advice on both 
temporary and permanent repairs. J concluded the cause of damage wasnt subsidence, so 
as the cause of damage was disputed, LV arranged for a different surveyor (G) to inspect 
the outbuilding.
G also concluded the damage wasnt subsidence related, so LV then turned down Mr Bs 
claim.
Mr B was unhappy and complained to LV. He added that he was unhappy that his premium 
had been affected by the claim. And he was also unhappy with an error LV made in 
calculating the value of the property during the claim.
LV said it had turned down Mr Bs claim because it hadnt been shown that the damage had 
been caused by subsidence. So, there wasnt an insured event for it to cover. LV accepted it 
had misled Mr B by initially agreeing to cover the claim. And that there had been delays in 
getting to this stage. LV also acknowledged the mistake over the calculation of the premium 
and property value so offered Mr B a total of £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
LV added that if Mr B wished to challenge the findings from the three expert reports, he 
would need to arrange his own independent report, which it would reimburse if it led to the 
claim being accepted.
Mr B didnt agree with LVs response and brought his complaint to us. In summary he said:
LV had unfairly turned down the claim by giving different reasons as to why the 
damage wasnt covered.
That Gs report wasnt sufficiently independent.
That LV had caused additional distress and inconvenience by missing appointments 
and incorrectly valuing the property during the claim.
To put things right Mr B wanted LV to accept the claim and pay more compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint not be upheld. They 
concluded LV had acted fairly in turning down the claim, based on the expert reports 
provided. And they thought LVs offer to consider a further independent report was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Our investigator also concluded that LV had made reasonable efforts to appoint independent 
surveyors. And they thought that LVs offer of £300 compensation was sufficient and in line 
with our services awards. So, they didnt think LV needed to do any more.
Mr B didnt agree. In addition to the points above he said in summary:
It was irresponsible for LV to monitor a building that was unsafe, and it shouldnt 
have taken around six months for the surveyor to conduct a site visit.
Gs report wasnt an accurate survey as it wasnt as detailed as M and J, didnt 
involve an examination of the outbuilding, and appeared to be based on current 
building practices.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LVs decision to turn down the claim
Mr Bs position is that the outbuilding has suffered from subsidence damage in line with the 
conclusions drawn in Ms report. LVs position is that there isnt an insurable event to cover 
as subsidence damage has been ruled out by J, and subsequently Gs report.
Ms report summarised, The cause was initially attributed to root induced clay shrinkage; 
however, upon review, it is clear the Underground Services work for the New Development 
has been the primary causeContractors to provide detailed SOW for required repairs. 
Js report stated, this inspection was required to consider the nature and extent of 
movement suffered by [the outbuilding], to determine the cause of that movement and to 
recommend appropriate remedial measures in outline form.Js report continued, all three external walls were listing outwards and contained relatively 
recent cracks which widened with height but critically tended to commence a mid-wall height 
only. And Js report concluded, we have seen no evidence to suggest recent significant 
subsidence of three external wallsInstead the mechanism which has occurred has been 
recent and significant outward movement at eaves level and which has translated to the 
upper half of the walling belowthe west end of the main roof truss which has developed 
wet rot decayhas resulted in failure of the timber bearing and collapse of the end of the 
trussWe are of the opinion that this is rapidly occurring eaves spread which has caused 
the cracking and disturbance to the upper half of the external walls which has prompted the 
householders concerns.
Gs report stated, It is in our opinion that due to an inherent lack of lateral restraint within the 
roof, the common rafters have suffered from unrestrained deflection resulting in outward 
thrust at eaves levelDue to the outwards movement at the head of the wall the principal 
rafter has lost its bearing and has collapsed resulting in failure of the roof.
Having considered everything, Im persuaded that LV has acted fairly in turning down the 
claim. I say this because the reports, whilst differing in opinion as to exactly what caused the 
damage to the wall, have all commented on the mechanism of roof spread. And J concludes 
that this is the predominant cause of the cracking to the walls.
It's also apparent from the initial site investigations that other causes, such as nearby 
vegetation werent found to be an intervening cause here. 
I accept that Mr B has concerns about Gs report. But, in any event, were I to discount this 
report, Im persuaded that Js report is sufficiently detailed in explaining the cause of 
damage. I can see that J did have a remit to comment on the cause of the movement and 
has gone on to explain why the damage isnt due to subsidence. Therefore, Im satisfied 
overall that LV investigated the damage proportionately and carried out sufficient 
investigations to determine the cause of movement wasnt an insured event under the policy. 
So, I wont require LV to do anything further here, and it follows that I find its offer to 
reconsider its findings should Mr B provide a further independent report is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
LV not visiting the site
Ive considered Mr Bs comments about the safety of the outbuilding, and that it was left for 
some months before his complaint led to a site visit. And I can see he feels strongly about 
this point. Fortunately, as Mr B says there was no further collapse of the building, but he 
feels LV was irresponsible for allowing the risk to remain. 
My role requires me to consider compensation for events which have happened. So, whilst I 
have no reason to doubt what Mr Bs said here, I cant consider an award for the risk of the 
outbuilding collapsing further when this didnt happen. I have however considered the overall 
claim, and LVs actions in order to determine if its compensation offer is fair and reasonable.Claim delays and customer service
It appears the main area of delay in this claim concerns Ms initial site visit following the 
subsidence investigations. I can see that LV acted following Mr Bs initial complaint and the 
subsequent site visits were done reasonably promptly. And I can see that once it was 
determined that subsidence wasnt the cause of the damage this was communicated to Mr B 
in an attempt to manage his loss of expectation.
Having reviewed the evidence, it seems LV has rectified the issues concerning Mr Bs 
property valuation and renewal premium so I can see it acted to put these things right for    
Mr B once it was made aware.
Taking everything into account, I agree that the £300 compensation offered is fair in the 
circumstances. Im satisfied that this fairly reflects the delay in the claim Ive set out above, 
the impact of the administrative errors over Mr Bs property value and premium, and Mr Bs 
overall loss of expectation in having the claim turned down.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman