DRN-2303433
The complaint
Mr R complains that the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) 
unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy without warning him.
What happened
I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and also here. Mr R 
was stopped by the police on his way to work for driving without insurance and took his car. 
Mr R said he thought he was insured. 
NFU told Mr R the payment for his insurance had been returned as unpaid by his bank on 
two occasions. Mr R said he hadnt been told this. He said NFU knew he worked away from 
home, but hadnt called him on his mobile phone to warn him as it had when his policy was 
amended.
Mr R paid £170 to recover his car from the police and his car insurance was reinstated but 
without his No Claims Discount. He said he had lost earnings and the police told him he may 
have committed an offence and could receive penalty points on his licence.
Mr R complained to NFU. NFU said it had sent Mr R two letters about the failed direct debit 
and left a message on his land-line. Mr R said he only received one letter about his direct 
debit and that was after the police incident and he didnt use his land-line. He said Covid-19 
had delayed the post in his area. NFU said it didnt have Mr Rs mobile phone number on file 
but was satisfied it had made sufficient efforts to contact him.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service and said he had never driven uninsured and had 
never missed any insurance payments. He said he would like a letter of indemnity, and for 
NFU to acknowledge that he wasn't contacted by mobile phone and an apology.
The investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said NFU hadnt 
adequately explained to Mr R that his policy would be cancelled. She said Mr R only 
received one notice of cancellation and NFU hadnt sent confirmation of cancellation. She 
recommended that NFU back-date the reinstatement of Mr Rs policy to the
cancellation date and provide a letter of indemnity for his court case. 
NFU disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review the complaint. It 
said Mr R had broken the contract by not paying his premium and it had written twice and 
called him about this. NFU said Mr Rs failed payments for previous instalments were 
normally collected on the second attempt. It said he would have been told by his bank about 
these in March 2020. 
My provisional findings and the parties responses
Since Mr R brought his complaint to our service the police have said they will take no action 
against him concerning his lack of car insurance. Mr R remains unhappy that he didnt 
receive any communication about the problem from NFU and its poor administration.
I said NFUs records show Mr Rs direct debit returned unpaid twice in March 2020 and 
NFUs letter to Mr R on 11 March told him that payment must be made by 26 March. Ive 
seen that the letter was properly addressed and recorded in NFUs records as dispatched 
and so it appears it was sent. I said NFUs records show a message was left for Mr R on 20 
March on the land-line number he had given NFU. NFU then wrote to Mr R on 27 March 
confirming cancellation of his policy. A new policy was taken out by Mr R on 30 March. 
I said that from the records Ive seen, Mr Rs instalments in January and February 2020 also 
failed on the first occasion. NFU said that this was normally corrected at the second attempt. 
But as this didnt happen in March 2020 it followed its normal course of action under the 
terms of the policy and cancelled the insurance contract. I have seen a term of Mr Rs 
contract of insurance that allows NFU to cancel his policy if he doesnt pay the instalments. 
I thought that NFUs letters met the regulatory requirements when dealing with a pre-
cancellation situation. We would expect an insurer to use two different methods of 
notification in alerting a policyholder to the imminent cancellation of a policy. 
I said it appeared that NFU had called Mr Rs mobile in the past, but the number doesnt 
appear on its record of his contact details. NFU had a record of Mr Rs current occupation, 
but not that he worked away from home. Theres no record of Mr R telling NFU about this. I 
thought NFUs first letter, sent before the covid-19 lockdown, and the phone message gave 
Mr R the opportunity to react to the failed payment before he was stopped by the police.
I thought NFU had made adequate efforts to contact Mr R about his policy and gave him fair 
warning of the cancellation. I also thought Mr R would have received notification from his 
bank of the failed payments in March 2020 and so ought to have known that his policy was 
likely to be cancelled. Mr R said this wasnt the case.
I thought it would have been better for NFU to have called Mr R on his mobile phone, but I 
think that appropriate action was taken to attempt to contact him. I thought it was fair for 
NFU to cancel Mr Rs policy and not to reinstate the policy or pay Mr R compensation.
Mr R disagreed with the provisional decision saying he didnt receive notice of cancellation. 
He said his complaint was originally brought to highlight NFUs poor administration and 
record keeping, which led to his problems. He said he was appalled that NFU hadnt got his 
mobile number on its records given the calls made and received. He said he gave NFU his 
land-line number as it was active when his policy started but was no longer in use and he 
didnt have a handset. Mr R said, I didn't receive any letter from my bank notifying of any 
missed direct debit payments, as I do not receive any correspondence via post from my 
bank.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have asked Mr R and NFU further questions and considered the information they have 
provided. 
Mr R isnt able to say when he told NFU to make his mobile his preferred method of contact 
and I havent seen anything to show that he did. Mr R said about his land-line, I failed to 
notify the NFU that this number was no longer active - but I also forgot that it was listed on my policy as a contact number. We wouldnt expect an insurer to amend a policyholders 
preferred contact details without an instruction from the policyholder and I dont think NFU 
received this instruction from Mr R.
Given Mr Rs statements about his land-line, I am surprised that when our investigator rang, 
it was answered. I am also surprised that given what Mr R said about not receiving letters 
from his bank, his bank has confirmed that it wrote to him twice in March 2020 about his 
failed insurance instalments. Mr Rs bank have sent us copies of letters to Mr R dated 4 
March and 10 March 2020 about the failed payment to NFU and said he could view these on 
the banking app. The letters state that the bank follows required practice by alerting 
customers of these defaults by mobile phone to a number provided by the customer.
I still think that NFUs letters met the regulatory requirements when dealing with a pre-
cancellation situation and were properly addressed to Mr R. Its records show that the letters 
were despatched as dated.
I remain of the view that NFU made reasonable efforts to contact Mr R about his policy and 
gave him fair warning of the cancellation. I also think Mr R received notification from his bank 
of the failed payments. I think Mr R had reason to have known that his insurance payment 
had failed and that his policy was likely to be cancelled if he didnt pay his premium 
instalment.
As I still consider that in the circumstances it was fair for NFU to cancel Mr Rs policy for 
non-payment, I dont require it to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman