The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about the way NewDay Ltd (NDL) handled his Amazon credit card 
application.
What happened
On 13 May 2019, Mr G applied online for an Amazon Platinum credit card, which is provided 
by NDL. He received an Amazon Classic credit card, this card has different features and 
benefits to the Platinum card he applied for. Mr G says he didnt realise he had been sent an 
alternative card and he activated on 23 May 2019.
On 4 June 2019, Mr G received an email from Amazon welcoming him to his Platinum credit 
card. When Mr G realised he had a different card he made a complaint with NDL.
On 20 June 2019, NDL issued its final response. It said unfortunately Mr G didnt meet the 
eligibility criteria and so he had been down sold an Amazon Classic card rather than a 
Platinum MasterCard. It said this was made clear in correspondence it sent Mr G. NDL said 
all its applications for credit are subject to status, which is also made clear on the online 
application and its not obliged to give the initial offer But, it did agree the email Amazon sent 
was confusing and so it offered Mr G £25 compensation in recognition of this.
An investigator looked into things for Mr G. He looked at screenshots of the application 
process. He could see the first page of the application stated the terms, conditions, and this 
included a statement to say subject to application and status. The terms of your product 
may differ. He noted a number of different times the website displayed information 
confirming Mr G had been accepted for an Amazon Classic credit card. He found that as 
NDL displayed the correct offer several times and the application Mr G completed was for 
that credit card, it hadnt done anything wrong. He also noted both the card itself and the 
information sent with it displayed the name Classic card and included the terms and 
conditions for that credit card. He said although he appreciated there may have been some 
confusion, the information as to which card Mr G had been accepted for was clear. NDL had 
compensated Mr G for Amazons incorrect email and he found this to be fair and reasonable 
and didnt ask NDL to do anything further.
Mr G disagreed. He remains of the view he shouldve received a Platinum Mastercard and 
so he asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive looked at all the information afresh 
from both parties. Having done so, Ive reached the same view as the investigator. Ill explain 
DRN-1501969why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
I appreciate this is frustrating for Mr G and he understood hed been accepted for a Platinum 
Mastercard. Ive looked carefully at the screenshots of the application process and the 
correspondence sent from NDL to Mr G. It very clearly states the product offered is an 
Amazon Classic Card. Ive seen the terms and conditions make it clear the application is 
subject to status.
Its not our role to look at NDLs business practices in how it determines its eligibility criteria 
for a given credit card.  It has its own policies to determine who it offers credit cards to and at 
what rate but it does have a responsibility to provide clear information that isnt misleading. 
From what Ive seen there were a number of clear notifications that the credit card it offered 
Mr G was an Amazon Classic Card. This was both within the online application process and 
in the correspondence, it sent to Mr G following his application.
I appreciate the email from Amazon, not NDL, was confusing but this doesnt negate Mr Gs 
responsibility to check that the credit card he has been offered and received is the product 
he wishes to accept. The card itself also clearly states it is a Classic Card and I think its 
reasonable Mr G had enough information to raise any concerns before he activated it.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr G and NDL and I havent heard anything that suggests 
Mr G would be receiving a Platinum Mastercard.
I know Mr G will be disappointed but Im satisfied NDL have acted fairly and reasonably and 
I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23July2020.
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman