DRN-4147866
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV). He isnt 
happy that his premium would have increased on his motor insurance policy if he moved 
address.  
What happened
Mr M was looking to move address and looked to gain a quotation from LV mid-term. As the 
property he was moving to was a new build LV werent able to provide a quote, but a 
quotation was gained using a postcode nearby. As Mr M wasnt happy with the quote and 
the increase in premium, especially as there was only a few months remaining on his 
present policy he complained to LV and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he 
understood why Mr M was frustrated with the increase in premium he didnt think he had 
been affected. This was because Mr M didnt actually change his policy or pay any increased 
premium, so he didnt think Mr M had been prejudiced. 
As Mr M didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr M was unhappy with the potential increase in premium. But, for 
whatever reason, he didnt go ahead with the change, so the increase didnt come into 
effect. Mr M chose to continue with his policy, at the same price, until the policy expired. 
Fortunately, it didnt have any impact on Mr M financially and he used the remainder of his 
policy.
So, although I can understand Mr Ms frustration and concerns Im not upholding his 
complaint. I know Mr M feels the reasons for the increase should be scrutinised further, but 
LV has provided an explanation as to why the risk (and so cost in premium) would have 
increased at the new address. Although LV hasnt saved all the details from the time of 
application, as Mr M chose not to go ahead with the quote, Im satisfied (on balance) that he 
would have been treated the same as any other consumer in a similar position to him. 
Ultimately, I dont think it would be fair to ask LV to pay Mr M any compensation or to refund 
him any of his premium as he didnt go ahead with the quote or incur and additional cost - he 
simply used the remainder of his policy.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman