DRN-1601290
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked his account and closed it a week later without 
giving him his funds. Mr K would like his money back and compensation.
What happened
Mr K had an account with Monzo.
Mr K says he was asked by a friend who couldnt access his own account if he could pay 
some money into Mr Ks account with a view to Mr K handing him the cash. On 
5 November 2019 Mr K received a payment into his account of £340. He withdrew this 
money and handed it to his friend.
The next day following a review of his account Monzo decided to block and then close the 
account. Monzo said they would return the money to source.
Mr K was unhappy with this decision and complained to the bank. 
Monzo looked at the complaint and said in making their decision they had complied with their 
internal procedures and terms and conditions of the account.
Mr K complained to our service. He was concerned that he had no access to his money.so 
was unable to buy food. Our investigator looked at the complaint. He said that Monzo hadnt 
done anything wrong when it closed Mr Ks account and returned the funds to source. In 
summary he thought this because hed seen evidence from the sending bank, Ill call bank S 
to say that the money was not intended for Mr Ks account and was fraudulently obtained. 
Mr K wasnt happy with our investigators view. Mr K said that hed been defrauded of money 
and wanted Monzo to return his £280.03 to him.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
I understand that Mr K is unhappy with the restriction placed on his account, but businesses 
have a legal obligation to protect the security of their accounts and to comply with various 
laws and regulations. Mr K agreed to these terms as a customer and I think these are 
reasonable. 
Mr K says the blocks meant he couldnt pay bills, rent or buy food. Whilst I understand Mr Ks strength of feeling, as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Monzo relied upon, Im satisfied that Monzo were complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Ks account. So, I cant say it has done anything 
wrong. The terms and conditions of Mr Ks account also permit Monzo to block an account. 
Having considered those terms, Im satisfied Monzo acted in line with them. 
Ive already said that Monzo has procedures it must follow to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Im satisfied that is what the bank did when it reviewed Mr Ks 
accounts. So, I dont think it has done anything wrong.
Closure of the account
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account say that Monzo could close the account with 
immediate effect in certain circumstances. Monzo have relied on term 12 to close Mr Ks 
account. Looking at the evidence provided by Monzo Im satisfied they were following the 
terms and conditions to immediately close Mr Ks account. 
Monzo can make commercial decisions about who they offer services to. They cannot 
unfairly discriminate against a customer. But they can say they no longer wish to do 
business with individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial freedom to decide who 
they want to contract with. And Im satisfied that Monzo has exercised its commercial 
decision legitimately when it decided it no longer wished to do business with Mr K. So, I 
cannot fairly and reasonably say its done anything wrong.
Return of funds
The main crux of Mr Ks complaint is that Monzo havent given him access to his funds but 
have returned them to source. Mr K says that the money belongs to him and wants it back. 
He says he was the victim of a fraud and he should get his money back.
I appreciate that Mr K is upset. But for me to uphold his complaint I have to think Monzo has 
done something wrong when it returned money in his account to source. And in this case, I 
dont think it has. Ill explain why.
Monzo was told by bank S that its customer, Mr K, had received a payment he wasnt 
entitled to. Bank S had provided an indemnity to Monzo - in effect agreeing to take the risk if 
that wasnt right.
The practice of providing indemnities in situations like this is well established and can 
facilitate the quick return of money to fraud victims. In this case bank S was told that the 
payment was the result of a scam, and when Monzo was told the same thing, I agree they 
had no real option but to return the fraudulent funds.
Mr K says he gave the money he received to his friend immediately. And that the funds 
Monzo returned was his personal funds. So Monzo had no right to take it. But I disagree 
because Monzo were following the Claytons Rule commonly known as the first in first out 
rule when it removed the money. This says that each withdrawal is presumed to be a return 
of all or part of the oldest deposit. The result is that the oldest deposit is withdrawn first, or 
the oldest debt is paid first.When Mr K received the £340 into his account, he already had a balance of £286.95. So, 
when the £340 was transferred out of the account only £53.05 was made up of the credit he 
had received. The remaining £286.95 was made up of the existing balance. Applying 
Claytons Rule, means that the money that remained in Mr Ks account after the £340 
transfer, was made up of the fraudulent credit, for which Monzo received an indemnity - 
in other words it wasnt Mr Ks money.
Once Monzo received a request from the sending bank to return the funds they were only 
able to send back £280.95 of the disputed credit. 
Because of that I cant fairly conclude that Monzo should return it to Mr K.
I understand that Mr K is upset by Monzos actions and says Monzo should return all the 
money to him. In making that argument, he says that the money is rightfully his, and he was 
trying to help a friend. Of course, if Mr K is owed the money, hes owed it by his friend, and I 
am not aware of any reason as to why he should not seek payment from him. I am sorry that 
Mr K finds himself in this situation. But I cant fairly say that Monzo should return the money 
to Mr K. 
In summary, banks must be able to talk to each other to protect their customers when money 
has been sent to the wrong account, or they believe fraud has taken place. And this is what 
happened here. 
Ive looked at the evidence which Monzo relied on to return the money. Having done so, I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Monzo to return the money to its source. So, it follows I 
wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman