DRN-3475123
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the decision made by Allianz Insurance Plc under his motor 
insurance policy to settle a third party claim following an accident, and record him as being 
at fault for that accident.
What happened
In 2018, Mr H was involved in an accident when a third partys car hit a trailer that Mr H was 
towing. Mr H did not make a claim for damage (and the trailer itself was not insured under 
the policy). However, the third party made a claim against Mr Hs policy for damage to his 
car.
Allianz asked Mr H to confirm his account of the accident. After considering this against the 
version of events given by the third party, it decided to settle the third partys claim for 
damage to his vehicle and for personal injury.
Mr H complained that Allianz had accepted liability for the accident, and that this had led to 
him losing no claims bonus and having to pay higher insurance premiums. He asked that it 
record the accident as non fault on his insurance record. Allianz responded that when it had 
considered liability for the accident, it had referred the details to its panel solicitors. Its 
conclusion, taking into account prospects of success if the matter went to court and the costs 
of court action, was that Mr H would be found responsible for the accident. For this reason, 
Allianz had decided to settle the third party claim, and it had recorded the accident as Mr H 
being at fault.
Unhappy with Allianzs stance, Mr H brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. Her view was that in settling the claim in the 
way that it had, Allianz had not acted unfairly.
Mr H did not agree with the investigators findings, and I have listened to the phone call 
where Mr H explained his reasons for disputing these findings. He has said that the accident 
needed to be looked at from a commonsense position. Because he was towing a trailer, he 
was approximately 30 feet in front of the third party vehicle. Mr H says that this meant the 
third party couldnt see past him, but the third party kept going, leading to the impact. Mr H 
considers that the third party misjudged his manoeuvre, failing to fall back and therefore 
hitting the trailer.
Mr Hs view is that Allianz was able to settle the third party claim if it was willing to make the 
payments that it did. However, he does not consider its fair that this led to the claim being 
recorded as him being at fault. Mr H says that Allianz acted unreasonably by concluding that 
it would be too expensive to dispute liability in court, because this led to him having a fault 
claim on his insurance record.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator noted, the terms of the insurance policy provide Allianz with the right to 
the full conduct and control of the defence or settlement of any claim made under it. Insurers 
have much experience of handling claims and of court proceedings, and will use this 
knowledge to determine whether or not to defend a claim from a third party, taking into 
account the costs involved in doing so. When investigating a complaint such as this one, this 
service considers whether the insurer has exercised its discretion to deal with the third party 
claim reasonably. We do not decide who was responsible for causing a road traffic accident, 
as this is what the courts do.
I appreciate that Mr H considers he was not at fault for the accident he was involved in. He 
has provided a detailed description of the incident, including a number of photographs 
showing the layout of the road. One of Mr Hs main concerns is that the third party simply 
failed to take into account the trailer that Mr H was towing, and misjudged the point at which 
he filtered into the one lane of traffic after the junction.
However, in assessing this complaint, I need to determine whether Allianz used its discretion 
to settle the claim fairly, based on the evidence provided. Allianz noted that Mr H was not 
aware of the impact between his trailer and the third party vehicle until the third party 
reported this to him. As such, its view was that if the case were to go to court, the absence of 
any direct observation of the impact by Mr H would weaken its ability to defend the claim.
Allianz referred details of the accident to its panel solicitors. The advice it received was that it 
should accept liability for the accident and settle the third party claim.
I appreciate why, based on his opinion of how the incident occurred, Mr H considers Allianz 
acted unfairly when settling the claim and recording him as being fault. I also note Mr Hs 
comments about Allianz seeking to avoid expensive court costs. But, as explained above, an 
insurer has to take into consideration the potential costs that would be incurred defending a 
claim in court. And in this case, Allianz obtained legal opinion that it should accept liability for 
the claim, rather than try to defend it. Overall, my view is that Allianz did use its discretion 
reasonably when choosing to settle the third party claim, and when recording Mr H as being 
at fault for the accident.
I understand why Mr H is unhappy that this left him with a fault claim being recorded against 
him, and I recognise that he is likely to be disappointed with my findings here. But my 
conclusion is that Allianz acted fairly when handling the claim made by the third party in the 
way that it did under Mr Hs policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman