DRN-4132726
The complaint
Ms H complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) 
handled her request for money back in relation to import charges shed paid for using her 
credit card.
What happened
In August 2022 Ms H used her credit card to pay a courier company £21.92 for import fees, 
but she was charged £59.91.
 
In September 2022 Ms H contacted AESEL online to dispute the transaction and get the 
£37.59 overpayment refunded. Ms H says she uploaded a copy of the courier invoice on 
AESELs online portal and send this again when it asked for further evidence. She 
complained that AESEL didnt progress a chargeback and closed her dispute, without letting 
her know what further evidence it required.
In response AESEL said it closed Ms Hs chargeback request because it didnt receive any 
supporting documentation. It re-opened it when she got in touch and asked her to upload the 
documentation, but still didnt receive anything. So, it closed the request because it didnt 
have any supporting information to validate the claim. AESEL didnt think it had done 
anything wrong.
Unhappy with AESELs response Ms H brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought it was more probable that Ms H had uploaded a copy of the invoice 
showing the correct charge unto AESELs portal on more than one occasion. In the 
circumstances, she thought it was fair for AESEL to refund Ms H the £37.59. 
AESEL disagreed, it said its records clearly showed Ms H hadnt uploaded any 
documentation and it provided a system screenshot to confirm this.
In addition to refunding the £37.59, Ms H requested compensation for the inconvenience and 
frustration of having to try to get this sorted out.
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision. We asked AESEL to provide the 
relevant call recordings to see what Ms H was told. It didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is a transaction reversal made to dispute a transaction and secure a refund for 
a transaction. When a chargeback happens, the disputed funds are held from the seller until 
the card issuer decides what to do, based on information provided by both the seller and the 
buyer. 
I can see Ms H asked AESEL to raise a chargeback on 25 September 2022 and on the 
same day AESEL sent Ms H an email requesting that she upload a copy of the original 
receipt of invoice showing the correct transaction. Ms H says she uploaded a copy of the 
receipt on the same day. 
On 10 October 2022 AESEL sent Ms H an email explaining it couldnt progress the 
chargeback without further information. It said it would re-open the dispute if she provided 
the documentation within 10 days.
Ms H says she spoke with AESEL who told her to upload the invoice again, which she did, 
she received an inquiry acknowledgement email from AESEL on 13 October 2022 saying it 
can take up to eight weeks to resolve the dispute. AESEL sent Ms H a closure letter on 14 
October 2022 which explained to date it hadnt received any supporting evidence.
AESEL says its records show that Ms H didnt upload any supporting documentation in 
respect of her dispute. And I can see from the system screenshot it provided that no 
incoming documentation is indicated. So, whilst I dont disbelieve that Ms H says about 
uploading the invoice on several occasions, the evidence shows that no documentation was 
received by AESEL. Its not clear why this happened, whether there was a problem with the 
online system or whether there was an error on Ms Hs part. In any event, Im satisfied that 
AESEL didnt receive a copy of the invoice. And given no information was received, I cant 
fairly say it was unreasonable for AESEL to close Ms Hs dispute. 
However, I do think AESEL couldve been clearer with Ms H about not receiving any 
documentation. In its initial email it specifically asked her to provide the receipt or invoice. 
However, in its email on 10 October 2022 it referred to further information, which I think gave 
Ms H the impression it already had a copy of the invoice, and it was requiring something 
else. And I think the acknowledgement email on 13 October 2022 wouldve also given Ms H 
the impression that it had now received the copy of the invoice that she tried to upload again. 
It wasnt until its letter on 14 October 2022 that AESEL was clear about not having received 
anything from Ms H. If it had been clear that it was still missing the invoice sooner, I think Ms 
H wouldve attempted to re-upload the invoice or contacted AESEL to ascertain if there was 
an alternative way she could provide the invoice, given shed made several attempts to 
upload it before.
I think the way AESEL communicated did cause Ms H some confusion, but I do think she 
should have been aware from its letter sent a few days later, on 14 October 2022 that it 
hadnt received any documentation. In the circumstances I think its fair and reasonable to 
pay Ms H £37.59 compensation to reflect the confusion caused.
My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold this complaint and instruct American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) to pay Ms H £37.59 compensation to reflect the confusion caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman