DRN-3109989
The complaint
Mr S complains Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt follow his instructions when he 
requested a drawdown payment from his pension plan. 
What happened
Mr S has a personal pension with Aviva from which he takes drawdown payments to 
supplement his income. Mr S called Aviva on 12 March 2021 and requested a drawdown 
payment of £13,820. He said he wanted the payment to be made after 4 April 2021 to fall 
within the new tax year. Aviva sent Mr S the relevant forms which he completed, and Aviva 
received them back on 26 March 2021. Aviva made the payment backdated to 1 April 2021 
and deducted basic rate tax of just over £4,500. So Mr S complained that Aviva had made 
the payment too early against his instructions.
Aviva said although it was backdated to 1 April the payment had actually been made on 5 
April 2021 which was in line with Mr Ss request. But it reminded Mr S that in the 12 March 
call the agent had told him to write his instructions about delaying the payment on the form 
which hed agreed to but hadnt done. So it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. He said there was nowhere on Avivas form to 
write his instructions about delaying the payment until after 4 April which he doesnt recall 
being asked to do. He now doesnt work so is dependent on his pension income and feels 
Aviva was negligent in not following the instructions hed given in the call. 
Our investigator didnt find Avivas point about having technically complied with Mr Ss 
request to be relevant. She thought the form could have been better designed as there was 
no specific field to include special instructions. But she thought it was fit for purpose with 
plenty of room in which Mr S could have written his request to delay the payment to the new 
tax year. She thought it was a reasonable request given it was likely to be different people at 
Aviva making Mr Ss payment to taking customer calls. And it wasnt practical to expect the 
payment staff to check the call notes to see if someone had given particular instructions to 
delay a payment. So she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S responded to say it was unfair to hold him responsible when the investigator had said 
Avivas form had room for improvement. He didnt think Aviva had provided the high level of 
customer service he expected. And the tax office had told him Aviva could do a bit of 
administration and unwind the transaction and make the payment in the correct tax year. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ss points but didnt change her mind. She didnt think Aviva 
had accepted Mr Ss instruction to delay the payment during the call, as hed been told to 
give any special instructions in writing on the form, which he hadnt done. And she said 
backdating the payment to the earliest date it couldve been made is standard industry 
practice.
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it for broadly the same reason as the investigator. I 
realise this will be disappointing for Mr S in view of his financial circumstances so let me 
explain why.
Firstly I listened to the call on 12 March in which Mr S says he wants to take a drawdown 
payment of £13,820 in the new tax year. The advisor told Mr S to write his requirements for 
the date of the payment on the form. She can be heard typing, presumably capturing Mr Ss 
instructions to arrange for the pack to be sent out to him. She then gave Mr S some risk 
warnings about taking drawdown payments and enduring hes considered his future 
retirement provision. She explained it usually takes about seven working days for the pack to 
be sent out and suggested he phone if hes not received anything by 26 March. She also 
said that to ensure a payment is made within this current tax year theyd need instructions by 
19 March. So I understand how Mr S took the impression the call handler had made a note 
of his requirements. 
But Ive also looked at the Income Drawdown variation application form and letter which 
were sent out to Mr S and which he completed and returned. The letter is dated 19 March 
2021 so was generated in the timescale the advisor had told Mr S to expect. Theres no 
specific field or section in the form for Mr S to note the particular date he required the 
payment to be met. But the letter clearly says income payments are subject to tax and 
makes no mention that Aviva had noted Mr Ss requirement for the payment to be made in 
the new tax year. So while Mr S says he didnt remember what was said in the call, which 
after all was only a week earlier, Id have expected this statement on the letter to remind him, 
given the importance to him of the timing of the payment. 
As well as the actual form Mr S completed and returned, Ive also seen an example of a 
blank form which shows that after page 6 theres a page marked Notes with a ruled table 
which reads Please use this page if you need more space to complete your answers. 
Please ensure that you include the relevant section number to which the additional 
information refers. Mr S had completed Section 3 of the form headed I want to make an ad 
hoc payment so he could have used the Notes page, or any of the blank space on the form 
to ensure Aviva knew he didnt want the payment made until the new tax year. He could 
have done even if he thought Aviva had noted his instructions when he called. 
Mr S had been working until May 2020, so to minimise his tax liability he wanted to take his 
pension income in the new (2021/22) tax year which he believed ended on 4 April 2021. A 
tax year actually runs from 6 April one year and ends on 5 April the following year so even if 
Aviva hadnt back dated the payment, which Mr S says was done without his agreement, it 
would still have fallen within the 2020/21 tax year. And like the investigator I think backdating 
payments is standard practice. 
The end of a tax year is a particularly busy time for financial businesses, which is I think why 
the agent told Mr S instructions would need to be received by 19 March to ensure they were 
processed within the current tax year. But I dont think that meant any instructions received 
after 19 March would automatically be processed in the new tax year. I think its likely if a 
consumer sent a payment instruction to arrive before the end of a tax year Aviva would 
assume theyd want it processed within that tax year. So theyd do their best to comply if 
possible, as customers would be more likely to complain if the payment was delayed 
unnecessarily. After all if the customer intended a payment to be processed in the new tax 
year they could have submitted their instructions to ensure it didnt arrive before then. Only Mr S knew his personal financial and tax situation and the importance of delaying the 
payment until the new tax year to ensure he didnt exceed his personal tax allowance. Mr S 
thinks hed let Aviva know he wanted to delay his drawdown payment to after 4 April. But 
even if Aviva had listened to the recording or looked at the notes from the 12 March call they 
would have heard the agent tell Mr S he should write his instructions regarding the timing of 
the payment on the form. But Mr S sent the form back without any special instructions. 
Without the written instructions hed been asked to provide Aviva couldnt know Mr S still 
wanted the payment to be delayed and that he hadnt simply changed his mind. 
Mr S says Aviva could correct the position by making an adjustment, so the payment falls in 
the current tax year. That might be something Aviva can do to correct a mistake it made. But 
in this case I dont think Aviva did something wrong by making the payment when it received 
Mr Ss instructions, so it follows Im not going to direct Aviva to do that. Mr S may be able to 
sort this out with the tax authorities but thats not something my decision can cover.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman