DRN-2116875
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy New Risk Solutions Limited cancelled his car insurance policy while he was
waiting for an updated V5 document from the DVLA.
What happened
Mr N took out car insurance through New Risk in July 2019. A month or so later, having had
a request from the insurer, New Risk asked Mr N to send it various documents so his
insurance could be validated.
Mr N sent in the documents. But the name on his V5 document didnt exactly match that on
his drivers licence. New Risk said it needed Mr Ns V5 to have his correct legal name. So he
sent the V5 to the DVLA to be amended. Before he got the new V5 back, New Risk
cancelled his car insurance.
When Mr N complained to New Risk, it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr N complained to
us. The investigator who looked at Mr Ns complaint upheld it. He didnt think New Risk had
given Mr N enough time to get his V5 back from the DVLA. He thought New Risk should
reimburse Mr N his brokers fee and pay him £50 for the distress and inconvenience it had
caused him.
New Risk disagreed. It said it gave Mr N enough time to send in his V5. And it said it was
Mr Ns responsibility to make sure his legal documents were in the correct legal name. So
Mr Ns complaint came to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 22 July 2020, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ns 
complaint (as our investigator had) but also intended to direct New Risk to do more to put 
things right for Mr N than our investigator had.
Mr N says he is happy with my provisional decision and New Risk accepts it and hasnt had 
anything to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, my final decision is to uphold Mr Ns 
complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Like the investigator who looked at Mr Ns complaint, I intend to uphold it. I dont think New
Risk treated Mr N fairly and reasonably in cancelling his car insurance.
New Risks cancellation policy is set out in its terms of business. It says:
There are occasions where we will enforce cancellation of your policy. This is only
performed when there is a good reason or if your insurers have instructed us to do so.
Before cancelling your policy, we will always send at least seven days written notice to your
last known address.
The following is my current understanding of what happened with the cancellation of Mr Ns
car insurance.
After Mr N took out his car insurance, he got a welcome letter from New Risk saying it had
everything it needed, so he didnt have to send in any supporting documents.
A few weeks later, the insurer asked New Risk for some validating documents from Mr N.
This included a copy of his V5.
On 20 August, New Risk sent Mr N a Final Reminder (even though this was the first time
he was asked to send in documents). The final reminder said he needed to send in his
documents within seven days, otherwise cancellation would be instigated.
On 21 August  so only one day after it had sent the final reminder, and not seven  New
Risk sent Mr N a Cancellation Notice, saying his policy would be cancelled in seven days if
he didnt send in his documents. Mr N says he sent his documents in at the beginning of
September.
On 11 September, New Risk sent Mr N another 7-day Cancellation Notice. This
cancellation notice was blank  it didnt ask him to send in anything. Understandably, Mr N
says he thought it had been sent by mistake.
On 16 and 17 September, from New Risks internal records, it tried to call Mr N three times
but didnt get through.
On 20 September, New Risk sent Mr N another 7-day Cancellation Notice. This asked only
for a copy of Mr Ns V5 document. The notice didnt say New Risk was asking for a new V5
because there was a discrepancy with the names on Mr Ns current V5 and his drivers
licence. Having sent in his V5 already, I think this wouldve been confusing for Mr N.
On 23 September, from New Risks internal records, Mr N called up  presumably because
hed got the latest cancellation notice. So I think it was probably only from around 23
September that Mr N knew what the problem with his V5 was.
On 27 September, New Risk sent Mr N another 7-day Cancellation Notice asking for a
copy of his V5. Mr N called New Risk again and from its internal records it seems he was
granted an extension  although the length of the extension isnt set out in the call notes.
On 4 October, Mr Ns policy was cancelled.
On 7 October, Mr Ns new V5 was issued by the DVLA.
From this chronology, its clear to me New Risk didnt deal with Mr Ns policy cancellation
fairly and reasonably and in line with its cancellation policy. It issued a final reminder when
it was asking Mr N for documents for the first time. It issued a cancellation notice after only
one day, when the final reminder said Mr N would have seven days to send in his
documents before the cancellation process would begin. After Mr Ns documents had gone
in, it then sent him a blank cancellation notice. It subsequently sent another cancellation
notice asking for the V5 Mr N had already sent in, without explaining what the problem was
with it.And after New Risk did finally explain to Mr N what the problem with his V5 was, within a
fortnight, it had cancelled his policy. The DVLA says it can take up to a month to issue a new
V5.
I dont think New Risk gave Mr N enough time to get the new V5 issued and so I dont think it
acted fairly and reasonably in cancelling his policy.
New Risk says it was Mr Ns responsibility to make sure his legal documents had his correct
name. But the name on Mr Ns old V5 was the name he was used to going by. So I dont
think he would necessarily have thought his name was legally incorrect and I dont think
thats unreasonable.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think there are a number of things New Risk needs to do to
put things right for Mr N. Its my intention to direct New Risk to reimburse Mr N his broker
arrangement fee, his cancellation charge and what New Risk calls its lost commission. I
think it should also write to Mr N to confirm the policy was cancelled in error. And I intend to
direct it to pay Mr N £100 for the distress and inconvenience the cancellation of the policy
has caused him and which I think the sequence of events Ive set out above clearly shows.
Ive had no new comments or evidence from Mr N or New Risk (both of whom have 
accepted my provisional decision). And having looked a everything again, I cant see any 
reason to change the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision. So these now form 
part of this final decision.
Putting things right
I direct New Risk to put things right for Mr N as I set out below.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct New Risk Solutions Limited to:
Reimburse Mr N his broker arrangement fee of £42.40, his cancellation charge of
£38.81 and what New Risk refers to as its lost commission of £66.23.
Write Mr N a letter to say his policy was cancelled in error. Mr N can show this letter
to any future insurers if they query the cancellation of this policy.
Pay Mr N £100 for the distress and inconvenience the cancellation of his policy, and
New Risks handling of it, has caused him.
New Risk should pay these amounts within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr N has accepted 
my final decision. If it doesnt, it should pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on 
them from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman