DRN-2868411
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide them with 
a full cash refund, after they cancelled their travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 15 March 2020, Mr and Mrs L purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which 
provided them with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional 
cover for Mrs Hs trip, including post- departure cover, with her going on holiday from 23 
November 2020 to 07 January 2021. 
The premium Mr and Mrs L paid for the policy was £300.30 in total, after a discount of 
£45.55 was applied to the purchase. The policy included cover for five medical conditions Mr 
and Mrs L declared.
Mr and Mrs L have explained that their destination wasnt allowing anyone into the country. 
So, Mr and Mrs L have said they contacted their airline provider on 28 September 2020 and 
cancelled their trip. And following this, they contacted Great Lakes, to ask for their insurance 
policy to be cancelled, and a full refunded provided to them, given they would no longer be 
travelling.
Great Lakes told Mr and Mrs L that it wasnt able to provide them with a cash refund for their 
policy  because it had been cancelled after the 14-day cooling off period the policy 
provided. But it told Mr and Mrs L it could offer them the following;
A pro-rata credit voucher, for the unused part of their travel insurance policy  which 
equated to 72.44. Or;
The opportunity to move their single trip dates to within 18 months of the policys 
original purchase date, compared to the usual 13, which is free its customer to 
provide reassurance of cover. It said this was providing the duration and destination 
for the holiday remained the same, and the original policy dates hadnt already 
expired. It said that is a different duration or destination was chosen, an additional 
premium may be charged.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept this offer. And their original policy dates have now expired. So, 
the option left to them is the pro-rata credit voucher noted above. Because Mr and Mrs L 
remained unhappy with Great Lakes position on the matter, they referred their complaint to 
this service for an independent review.
On referring their case to this service, Mr and Mrs L explained that they felt they should be 
provided with a refund of the full £300.30 they had paid for the policy, noting that the fact 
they had to cancel their holiday had been outside of their control  owing to the global 
pandemic and the restrictions in place because of this. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and provided their opinion on the matter. They set 
out the details of the relevant cancellation rights  and how they applied in the 
circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is a fundamental principle of 
insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this meant its not unreasonable 
for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 15 March 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, and cover would have been available 
under the policy until the date the holiday was cancelled on 28 September 2020.
However, the investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of 
Covid-19. They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this 
complaint was for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs L with a pro-rata credit voucher, 
calculated based on the remaining premium when Mr and Mrs Ls holiday was cancelled, 
until the end date of the policy on 28 September 2020.
Our investigator reviewed the calculation that had been completed by Great Lakes. And after 
discussing this with Great Lakes it was agreed that, instead of the refund being £72.44, it 
should in fact be £102.44.
It was also clarified that this voucher being offered was valid for 36 months, from the point of 
policy cancellation. It could be used for a new single trip, or annual multi-trip insurance 
policy. Mr and Mrs L could also transfer this voucher to a friend or a relative as a gift, if they 
would rather do this. And our investigator considered this fair.
Mr and Mrs L didnt think this was fair. They remained of the opinion that they should receive 
a refund of £300.30.
Because Mr and Mrs L remained dissatisfied, their complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im satisfied Great Lakes offer to refund Mr and Mrs L £102.44 the form of a credit voucher is 
fair and reasonable. I say this because;
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mr and Mrs L.As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. 
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs L wanted to cancel their insurance policy. Their trip would 
no longer be going ahead as a result of the coronavirus pandemic. But I dont think Mr and 
Mrs Ls reasons for cancelling their policy reasonably fall into what would be considered 
exceptional circumstances. I say this because Mr and Mrs L cancelled her policy due to the 
pandemic. And I dont think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great 
Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
The examples of exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement 
or changes in the policyholders health. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is now fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs L were covered from the date they purchased their policy, for any cancellation 
claim they may have needed to make. And the premium they paid included this cover. As 
Great Lakes were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable 
that Mr and Mrs L pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. 
Mr and Mrs L contacted Great Lakes on 29 September 2020, to cancel their policy as it was 
no longer needed, given their holiday had been cancelled. Because there was nothing left for 
Great Lakes to insure from 28 September 2020, and this was an unprecedented situation, I 
do think Great Lakes offer to now provide a pro-rata refund, from the date of the holiday 
cancellation is fair. It means Great Lakes isnt charging a premium when it knows there is 
nothing left to cover.  
Given this, I think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy (from 28 September 
2020 to 7 January 2021) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of 
this case. I dont think the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered Mr and Mrs L are 
unreasonably restrictive. It does provide Mr and Mrs L with a number of options, including 
the ability to purchase a single or annual multi-trip policy, or gift the voucher to someone 
else. And it allows Mr and Mrs L cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than 
originally planned. 
Im also satisfied the value attached to the vouchers is now fair and I dont think Great Lakes 
has treated Mr and Mrs L differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and 
calculated the voucher amount in this case. Great Lakes has calculated the voucher amount 
from the date Mr and Mrs Ls holiday was cancelled  28 September 2020, to the date the 
policy was due to end, 7 January 2021. This meant there would be 102 days of the policy 
unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £102.44 of the premium paid. 
As this offer reflects the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 102 days after the policy 
was cancelled, Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do 
anything more than this. 
My final decisionGiven the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes Insurance 
SE has offered Mr and Mrs L is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require 
it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman