DRN-4406267
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund all the money they lost to 
a third-party scam.
Although this is a joint account, it was Mr L that fell victim to the scam  so I have referred to 
him throughout this decision.
What happened
Im not going to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 27 September 2023 covered 
the detailed timeline of the transactions and the details of Mr Ls testimony. But briefly Mr L 
fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. After initially investing and being led to 
believe he was making a profit, Mr L was told he needed to make more payments due to 
various issues with the withdrawal process.
Santander refunded 50% of all the payments, as it accepted that it could have provided more 
effective warnings. However, it deducted 50% as it feels Mr L should be held responsible for 
not carrying out enough checks or any due diligence to check the company was genuine.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint as she thought the offer already made by 
Santander was fair.
Mr L did not agree. He felt Santander should share more of the responsibility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that the funds were lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute that Mr L 
authorised the payments from his account, albeit not realising he was being scammed. So, 
the starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that hes liable 
for the transactions.
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Santander, to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect its 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. In such circumstances, it might 
be reasonable to expect Santander to intervene and ask some questions about the intended 
transactions before processing them.
I dont need to consider whether Santander should have done more  as it has already 
accepted responsibility for its part. I just need to consider whether it was fair and reasonable 
for it to deduct 50% of the payments Mr L made.
Having done so, while Im sorry that Mr L has been the victim of a cruel scam, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr L reacted to an advert online and accepts to some extent he didnt do sufficient 
research and relied on how genuine the adviser sounded. 
I do feel there were signs that that Mr L ought reasonably to have been concerned 
about. On 11 August 2022 Mr L received an email from the genuine cryptocurrency 
provider asking if he tried to log on from a new device or location. Mr L told the 
scammer on 12 August 2022 he didnt recognise the location or the six-digit code. 
The genuine cryptocurrency provider invited him to call its customer services. I think 
it would have been prudent for Mr L to do so.
I do feel by the time Mr L made the £10,000 payment on 13 September 2022 there 
were further signs that things werent quite right. Communications on 5 September 
2022 suggest Mr L was getting concerned as he had not heard from his adviser for 
over two weeks and the link to the website he had been using had stopped working. 
There was clearly doubt in Mr Ls mind at this point that the whole thing could be a 
set up. And whilst the adviser came back to him with a new link, Mr L clearly had 
an awareness of scam merchants and that hed been fortunate up to now not to 
have been fleeced. Given this was a possibility - all of this warranted further 
checking.
By September 2022 Mr L was receiving emails from what appeared to be another 
third-party organisation to inform him he needed to pay further money to release his 
funds. However, these emails had grammatical errors and dont appear to be from a 
genuine organization.  I think the situation warranted closer scrutiny.
If Mr L had researched the company, he would have found it wasnt registered on 
Companies House and that a different business was registered under the same 
address. I think this would have caused concern.
I appreciate Mr L feels Santander should be more than 50% responsible for his losses but 
for the reasons explained above I feel the 50% deduction Santander has made is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. I think its also worth noting that these 
payments went to an account in Mr Ls own name  rather than directly to the scammer  so 
would not have appeared so obviously a scam risk compared to transactions that went 
directly to a new unknown payee. 
As the investigator mentioned in her view - I would normally expect Santander to have paid 
interest from the date of the transactions to when it settled the matter (which was around six 
weeks after the scam was unearthed). But as the investigator also pointed out  I would not 
uphold the first three transactions here and so overall Santander has refunded more than I 
would award in a case like this. I therefore make no further award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman