DRN-4143136
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mr Y, working at Future Wealth Management (FWM) - which was an 
appointed representative (AR) of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi)  gave him unsuitable advice to move 
his pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in funds that were too 
risky for him.
What happened
Mr C says that in 2015, he was contacted by a firm called Kingsgate Law about his existing 
pensions with Legal & General (L&G). The letter referred Mr C to an individual called Mr G. 
Mr G was an introducer who had entered into an introducers agreement with FWM and Pi in 
January 2015. 
Mr C didnt meet with Mr G until late 2017. After the meeting, a Mr Y at FWM sent Mr C a 
letter confirming what had been discussed. The letter recommended that Mr C move his 
L&G pensions to a SIPP provided by London & Colonial (L&C). Mr Cs funds were then 
invested through a discretionary fund manager (DFM) recommended by FWM. The DFM 
that FWM recommended - SVS Securities (SVS) - has since been placed in special 
administration and the value of Mr Cs pension fund has declined dramatically.
Mr C complained to Pi and it initially acknowledged FWMs involvement in the transaction 
but said that it was limited to arranging the switch of the pensions. Pi said that Mr G, not Mr 
Y gave Mr C the advice to switch his pensions. 
Pi said that Mr G completed all the paperwork that Mr C received, without FWM or Pis 
authority.  Pi said that Mr G misrepresented that he was a financial adviser with FWM when 
in fact he was just an introducer.
Pi told Mr C that although primary liability for any unsuitable advice lay with L&G, it couldnt 
ignore the role of FWM so it offered to help with Mr Cs claim against L&G on a no fee basis.
Two investigators from this service have been involved in this complaint. The first 
investigator concluded that FWM gave Mr C unsuitable advice about a regulated investment. 
The investigator held Pi responsible for FWMs unsuitable advice to invest in a SIPP and 
recommended that Pi compensate Mr C.
After considering the first investigators recommendation, Pi disagreed with the proposed 
outcome. In summary Pi said that FWM wasnt involved in the recommendation to switch   
Mr Cs pensions to the SIPP. 
Pi said that this service didnt have jurisdiction to consider Mr Cs complaint because it 
hadnt accepted responsibility for the business carried out by Mr G. Pi said that even if it was 
wrong about its liability for the activities complained about, the first investigator had ignored 
the role played by SVS in causation. Pi said that the loss to Mr C was caused not by the 
advice to invest in a SIPP but because SVS had mismanaged his funds.
As Pi didnt think this service had jurisdiction to consider Mr Cs complaint, a second 
investigator became involved. After reviewing the complaint, the second investigator was 
satisfied that the Financial Ombudsman Service had jurisdiction to consider the complaint. 
In summary he thought that even if Mr C had only ever met with Mr G, the evidence showed 
FWM was directly involved in the switch and that fees were paid from Mr Cs SIPP to FWM. 
The second investigator thought that FWM gave the advice with Mr G acting as a go-
between. 
The second investigator thought Pi appointed FWM as its AR and authorised it to carry out 
the regulated activities of investment advice and arranging deals in investments. And that 
pursuant to section 39 (3) Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) Pi was 
responsible for anything done by FWM when carrying out this business.
The second investigator thought Pi recommended taking a specific product and that this 
recommendation was unsuitable given the fact that Mr Cs L&G pension represented most of 
his pension provisions and the SIPP was high risk compared to Mr Cs existing pensions.
The second investigator recommended that Pi put Mr C back in the position he wouldve 
been, had it had not given him the unsuitable advice.
Pi disagrees with the investigators recommendation. In summary it says Mr G acted 
fraudulently when advising Mr C and in breach of sections 19 and 21 of FSMA. As such, Pi 
says Mr Gs unlawful action falls outside its responsibility. 
Pi says that its not responsible for the complaint as Mr C never met or spoke to Mr Y. Pi 
says Mr Y didnt sign any of the documents and that Mr C never asked about FWM, instead 
accepting Mr Gs advice without question.
Pi says Mr Y didnt write to Mr C and was not involved in the advice process. Pi says Mr Y 
didnt know that Mr G had prepared the suitability report using FWM stationery.
Pi says again that weve ignored the mismanagement by SVS and have decided to make Pi 
pay compensation irrespective of the circumstances.
As Pi disagrees with the proposed outcome, the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
Im satisfied this complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider as it 
concerns acts or omissions of Pis AR for which it accepted responsibility.
The rules that we are governed by  known as the DISP rules  set out which complaints we 
can and cant consider. The rules are set by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), and can be found in its handbook.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them. 
Guidance for this rule at 2.3.3G says that: 
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the firmhas accepted responsibility). 
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of FSMA). Pi 
is authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising on 
investments and arranging deals in investments. FWM wasnt directly authorised. Instead, it 
was an AR of Pi.
Section 39(3) of FSMA says: 
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
We can therefore consider complaints about Pi including some complaints about its AR. 
To decide whether Pi is responsible here, I need to consider three issues:
What are the specific acts Mr C has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mr C has complained about?
Mr C complains Mr Y gave him unsuitable advice to switch his pensions to a SIPP provided 
by L&C to then invest the funds through SVS.
Are those acts regulated or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) Relates to an investment of a specified kind; 
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO) sets 
out which activities are regulated under FSMA.
The rights under a personal pension scheme (which includes Mr Cs previous pensions and 
the SIPP he moved to) are specified investments by a provision in Article 82 RAO. Advising 
on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And arranging deals in 
investments is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.
I appreciate that it was Mr G who Mr C met with. And Mr C says himself that he didnt have 
direct contact with Mr Y about the investment. But after considering all the evidence, Im 
satisfied that its likely Mr Y advised Mr C to switch his pensions and invest through SVS 
based on the following evidence:
In November 2017 Mr C signed a client agreement with FWM.A written recommendation dated 20 December 2017 was sent to Mr C on FWM 
letterhead bearing Mr Ys name which contained advice. I appreciate Pi doesnt think 
Mr Y sent the letter, particularly as he didnt sign it. But I consider it reasonable to 
conclude that Mr Y was likely involved in this process given what I set out further in 
the bullet points below. I dont think its reasonable to say that the recommendation 
letter was produced and sent without Mr Ys involvement or knowledge. 
In December 2017, L&G wrote to Mr Y at FWM to give details of Mr Cs existing 
pension after it received a letter from FWM requesting this information that came 
from Mr Y on FWM letterhead. The letter from L&G was addressed to Mr Y using 
FWMs address as recorded on the FCA register. So Mr Y/FWM would have received 
correspondence from L&G about the transaction.
In February 2018, FWM forwarded the completed L&G contributions form and 
discharge paperwork that Mr C had signed. The letter accompanying the paperwork 
was written on FWM letterheaded paper and was signed by Mr Ys administrator,   
Ms Y. 
L&C copied Mr Y into an email that it sent to Mr C on 28 March 2018 confirming 
receipt of money from L&G. The same email also confirmed that an initial fee of 
£1,840.15 would be paid to Mr Cs financial adviser. The email was sent to Mr Y 
using an alternative email address to his FWM email address. But I dont think this 
changes the fact that it shows Mr Y was aware of and involved in the investment that 
Mr C was making.
The SIPP application form addressed to L&C was completed using Mr Ys name as 
financial adviser, the email address for FWM and the firms name as Pi Financial 
Limited. FWM was to be paid an initial fee of 3.25% with an annual fee of 1%.
The statements provided by L&C show that the initial adviser fees were paid out in 
March 2018 with a further adviser fee paid in July 2019, as well as administration 
fees in 2020 and 2021. Pi confirmed to this service that it received three initial fees in 
April 2018, followed by a further fee in July 2019.
Pi says it was Mr G who advised Mr C  and Mr C seems to accept that he received advice 
from Mr G. But just because Mr C received advice from someone else, that doesnt mean Mr 
Y didnt also give advice.  
Im also satisfied that Mr Y carried out the regulated activity of making arrangements. As Ive 
said above, theres evidence that FWM forwarded completed paperwork. The email referred 
to above dated 28 March 2018 said that Mr Y would:
..where appropriate, either send us appropriate instructions for the investment of 
these funds to forward to you, or will organise for investment instructions to be 
submitted online via your website
In its original response to Mr Cs complaint, Pi said that Mr Y/FWMs involvement was 
limited to arranging the switch of your L&G pensions to L&C. Although Pi later backtracked 
to say that it was Mr G who arranged the switch of Mr Cs pensions, I think FWM knew Mr G 
was about to invest in the L&C SIPP and helped arrange these investments. So, I think its 
likely that Mr G and FWM were working together in arranging investments as well as giving 
advice.  These are regulated activities.Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
As Ive set out above, Section 39(3) FSMA says: 
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
In Mr Cs complaint, Pi is the principal. So, for me to be able to decide this complaint, I must 
be satisfied that the activity was carried out by FWM and that Pi accepted responsibility for it.
Pi hasnt said that FWM wasnt authorised to conduct the acts being complained about. 
Instead, Pi says the activities complained about werent undertaken by FWM and that Mr G 
wasnt contractually permitted to transact investment business. 
Taking everything into account (including what Ive set out above about why a regulated 
activity took place), Im satisfied Mr Y was acting as FWM when he advised Mr C and made 
arrangements. The only mention of any other business is that in some of the emails Mr Y 
was copied into, the email address that was used wasnt his FWM one and instead was an 
email address at a different business. But the fact the recommendation letter was sent in his 
capacity at FWM, the application documentation all referred to FWM, and fees were paid to 
Pi persuade me that Mr Y was acting as FWM when he carried out the acts complained 
about here. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Pi accepted responsibility under the 
agreement it had with FWM.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, Mr Justice 
Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register. 
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities FWM was authorised to do. 
Pi has provided an AR agreement between itself and FWM dated 15 January 2015.  
Some relevant sections of the agreement include:
2.1 The Company appoints the Appointed Representative to provide Services for the 
Company on the terms set out in this Agreement and the Appointed Representative 
accepts such terms, with effect from 15th January 2015. 
2.2 The Company may at any time prohibit, restrict, add to or otherwise change the 
Services by notification In Writing to the Appointed Representative, and will use its 
reasonable endeavours to give at least 14 days notice of any change.
4.2 The Appointed Representative shall, when performing his obligations under the terms 
of this Agreement comply with 
4.2.4 the Companys instructions In Writing from time to time, including the provision of any 
compliance or procedure manual issued by the Company. 4.4 The Appointed Representative shall
4.4.2 only conduct the Services through such agencies as the Company In Writing 
directs from time to time.
Services was defined as any Regulated Activity which the Company is authorised to 
undertake from time to time notified by it to the Appointed Representative and also giving 
advice, making arrangements (or offering or agreeing to do either) in relation to term 
assurance, mortgages, tax planning, long term care products and any other product offered 
in the giving of financial advice pursuant to this Agreement.
So, the AR agreement allowed FWM (and therefore Mr Y) to carry out the regulated activities 
of advising on investments and arranging deals in investments. 
My decision  jurisdiction 
Given what Ive said above, Im satisfied that under section 39 of FSMA, Pi, as principal of 
FWM is responsible for the activities Mr C complains about. So we have jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint against Pi.
As I consider this complaint is one that this service can look at, Ive gone on to consider 
the merits.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Im satisfied that its most likely Mr Y advised Mr C to switch his pensions to the SIPP to 
invest through SVS, Ive thought about whether that advice was suitable. 
From looking at the answers Mr C gave to Mr G/FWM about his previous investment 
experience, it looks like he had no other investments and only had cash savings in bank 
accounts. Mr Cs responses indicate that he was a low risk, inexperienced investor, and 
someone for whom traditional low cost pension arrangements would have been appropriate.
Mr C had an existing pension fund of around £50,000. He was advised to switch his 
pensions to a SIPP with a DFM arrangement in place. Given the relatively modest funds 
available to Mr C, its unlikely that he wouldve benefited from or needed the services of a 
DFM. 
The new SIPP wasnt a low cost or traditional pension arrangement. FWM outlined the fees 
in its letter of December 2017. In addition to the initial adviser charge of 3.25%, there was an 
annual financial adviser charge of 1% which equated to a monthly charge of £44. L&C 
charged a £100 set up fee and annual fee of £199. Two of the L&G policies also had exit 
penalties totalling more than £1070. 
The letter that FWM sent to Mr C of 20 December 2017 recommended the SIPP because:
At the present time, your prime objective is to review your existing pension contracts 
with L&G and set up a SIPP to provide you with greater investment choice and 
flexibility. You have been unhappy with the service you have received as you have 
never had a review and only receive an annual statement. You have not been satisfied with the growth in any of your pensions within the with-profits funds and 
wish to have an arrangement that allows you more flexibility in investment choice.
Although there may have been some advantages to taking out a SIPP in the form of greater 
flexibility, Im not persuaded that Mr C, with his modest pension funds, really needed access 
to a wider range of investments and especially via a DFM. If Mr C was genuinely unhappy 
with his existing arrangements, it seems likely that there would have been cheaper 
alternative options, such as a stakeholder pension, that would have met his needs. Taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied it ought to have been clear to Mr Y that there was no 
obvious justification for Mr C to move from his existing schemes and enter the arrangement 
he did. And this assessment is based on knowledge Mr Y ought to have had at the time  
not what we now know about the failure of SVS. 
I also note that Pi has previously said that it would help Mr C with a legal claim against L&G 
for the unsuitable advice that he received. So, I dont think theres much dispute that the 
investment wasnt appropriate for Mr C. Regardless of the subsequent failure of SVS, I dont 
think Mr Y/FWMs advice to switch Mr Cs pensions to a SIPP was suitable. Without FWMs 
advice to switch, I think its likely Mr C wouldve remained in his L&G pensions.
As Ive set out above, even if Mr Y didnt advise Mr C, he still carried out the regulated 
activity of making arrangements. In conducting this regulated activity, Mr Y had to act in line 
with the regulators Principles for Business. I consider that Principle 6  A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly - is particularly relevant.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) is also relevant and at 2.1.1R it says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the clients best interests rule).
So, Im satisfied Mr Y would still have needed to consider whether it was in Mr Cs best 
interests to move his pensions to a SIPP for investment via a DFM. For the same reasons as 
set out above, Im not persuaded it was. If Mr Y/FWM werent already involved in previous 
discussions with Mr C, I would have expected them to probe Mr C further on his 
circumstances, why Mr C wanted to switch his pensions to the SIPP and what the SIPP 
would be used to invest in and why he wanted to use the services of a DFM.
If they had done so, I dont think its likely that Mr C would have given them any information 
which could have reasonably persuaded Mr Y/FWM he had a good understanding of what 
he was investing in and the benefits of doing so. And Mr Y/FWM would have known that this 
was being suggested to Mr C by an unregulated third party (assuming FWM wasnt involved 
in the promotion and advice). So, I think it ought to have been clear to Mr Y/FWM that Mr C 
was better off staying in his existing schemes.
Pi has argued that SVSs misadministration caused Mr Cs loss, so I have considered this as 
part of my decision. But I still think its fair to make an award for the entire loss against Pi. 
This is because without FWMs involvement in the switch of the pensions and investment in 
the SIPP, Mr C would never have lost money in the investment managed by SVS. So, all of 
Mr Cs loss stems from the fact that FWM facilitated the inappropriate switch to the L&C 
SIPP.
If Pi still believes that the other parties actions contributed to the losses, it can take these 
concerns up directly with them.Putting things right
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mr C wouldnt have moved his pensions if everything had happened as it 
should have. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable. 
In summary, Pi should: 
1. Calculate the loss Mr C has suffered because of making the switch and 
investment. 
2. Take ownership of any illiquid investments held in the SIPP if possible. 
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Cs pensions in respect of his pension 
loss. If that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Mr C direct. In either 
case, the payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out 
below. 
4. Pay Mr Cs SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event hes not now able to 
close his SIPP. 
5. Pay compensation of £400 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr C. 
6. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of 
notification of acceptance by Mr C. 
Ill explain how Pi should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail 
below: 
1. Calculate the loss Mr C has suffered as a result of making the switch and 
investment 
To do this, Pi should work out the likely value of Mr Cs pensions as at the date of 
this decision, had he left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP. 
Pi should ask Mr Cs former pension provider to calculate the current notional 
transfer value had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in 
obtaining a notional valuation, then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-
year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that 
could have been achieved if the pensions hadnt been switched. 
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at 
the date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr C has suffered. 
Any additional sum that Mr C paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional 
transfer value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are many regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end. 
2. Take ownership of the investment 
Ideally, the asset in the SIPP could be removed from the SIPP. Mr C would then be 
able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, and avoid paying further fees for the SIPP. For 
calculating compensation, Pi should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value for the investment. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any 
costs and take ownership of it. 
If Pi can purchase the investment, then the price paid should be allowed for in the 
current transfer value (because itll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the 
investment). 
If Pi is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investment, it should give it 
a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Provided Mr C is 
compensated in full, Pi may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment the SIPP might receive from the investment. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr C 
may receive from the investment and any eventual sums hed be able to access from 
the SIPP. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
3. Pay compensation to Mr C for the loss hes suffered in (1) 
Since the loss Mr C has suffered is within his pensions, its right that I try to restore 
the value of his pension provisions if thats possible. So, if possible, the 
compensation for the loss should be paid into Mr Cs pension plans, if they still exist. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pensions if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pensions should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the compensation 
should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the 
income tax relief Mr C could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated 
using Mr Cs marginal rate of tax. 
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr Cs pensions, the compensation 
should be paid to Mr C direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into 
the pensions, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation 
for the loss paid to Mr C should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Cs marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the 
total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 
75% of the total amount.
4. SIPP fees 
If Mr C is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid, Pi should pay 
an amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the 
most recent years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr C 
would not be in the SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So, it wouldnt be fair for him to have to pay the fees to keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow 
sufficient time for things to be sorted out with the SVS investment and the SIPP to be 
closed. 
5. Trouble and upset 
Pay Mr C £400 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Mr C has been caused 
significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, in effect, a 
large portion of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £400 is fair to compensate 
for that upset. 
6. Pay interest 
Pi should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that 
Mr C has accepted this decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to 
be paid from the date of this decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple 
interest per year. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. Pi 
should give Mr C a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr C asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pi did ask that if I upheld Mr Cs complaint, interest shouldnt be applied until 90 days 
after my decision. I have considered this point but still think 28 days is a reasonable 
timeframe within which to deal with my redress directions, particularly as Mr C has 
suffered this loss for an extended period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay Mr C 
compensation as set out above.
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman