DRN-3240544
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how MotoNovo Finance Limited dealt with his request for assistance 
as a result of the Coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.
What happened
On 11 November 2017, Mr R was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. The agreement was for £7,612.49 over 60 months; with 59 monthly 
repayments of £216.72 and a final payment of £415.72.
In May 2020, Mr R contacted MotoNovo to tell them his family income had been affected by 
the Covid-19 pandemic and asked for a payment deferral. MotoNovo agreed this for three 
months. Mr R asked if hed be charged any additional interest on the payment deferral, and 
MotoNovo told him he wouldnt. But Mr R said he found out later that MotoNovo were 
charging him additional interest.
Mr R complained to MotoNovo, who agreed they hadnt been clear about the interest being 
charged. And they offered £80 compensation for the misinformation hed been given. Mr R 
wasnt happy with this response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed that MotoNovo couldve been clearer in explaining to 
Mr R what interest would be charged. But he thought that, had this been explained to Mr R, 
then he would still have taken the payment deferral as his family income had been 
temporarily affected by the pandemic. And, because Mr R had received the payment deferral 
hed asked for, the investigator didnt think hed lost out. So, the investigator didnt think 
MotoNovo needed to do anything more.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said that MotoNovo twice told him they wouldnt 
add an interest charge, and the £80 compensation theyd offered him hadnt been paid. He 
also thinks that MotoNovo are in breach of misrepresentation legislation. Because Mr R 
didnt agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance on 24 April 2020, that 
came into effect on 27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties 
as a result of Covid-19. This allowed financial businesses such as MotoNovo to grant a 
three-month payment deferral to people like Mr R.
The guidance said that a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral for 3 months 
unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers 
interests to do so.  The guidance also said that a customer should have no liability to pay 
any charge or fee in connection with the permitting of a full or partial payment deferral  the 
exception to this is where interest continues to accrue at the contractual rate  the 
continuing accrual of interest on sums owed under the agreement that remain unpaid would 
not be inconsistent with this guidance.
Mr R believes MotoNovo misrepresented the payment deferral. And misrepresentation 
requires a false statement of fact that induces a customer to enter into an agreement they 
otherwise wouldnt have done. So, if MotoNovo misrepresented the payment deferral (and 
Im not saying this was the case), then it follows that Mr R wouldnt have accepted this. And, 
because his income was affected by Covid-19, he wouldnt have been able to maintain the 
required payments. Which would result in him going into arrears and MotoNovo recording 
this with the credit reference agencies.
Mr R believes that, because the payment deferral was misrepresented, then MotoNovo 
should remove the interest charges. But to do so wouldnt be fair, as this would mean Mr R 
has received the benefit of not having to make any payments, without the need to pay 
interest that would otherwise be charged. So, if I were to say there was misrepresentation, 
Id be asking MotoNovo to unwind the payment deferral instead. Which would mean 
recording the missed payments as arrears and reporting this to the credit reference 
agencies.
Mr R has been clear that he asked MotoNovo, twice, if there will be any additional interest 
added to this deferral. And its not disputed that they told him there are no additional fees, 
charges or interest for taking the payment deferral.
Mr R had a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo and, on this type of agreement, interest 
is charged on the outstanding balance. So, if Mr R, in the normal course of events, was to 
have missed any payments, the interest would continue to be charged on the outstanding 
balance. And it wouldnt be reduced on the assumption that Mr R had paid the payment(s) 
hed missed. A payment deferral is no different  interest continues to be charged on the 
outstanding balance.
The agreement Mr R signed also makes this clear in saying interest shall be charged on 
overdue sums at the relevant rate (16.97%) from the due date until payment.
The FCA guidance is clear that MotoNovo are able to continue to charge interest in this way. 
But theyre not able to charge any additional fees or additional interest i.e. any interest over 
and above what would normally be charged. And, when Mr R asked if he was being charged 
any additional interest, MotoNovo correctly told his they werent charging additional interest.
Because MotoNovo gave Mr R the correct answer to his question, then Im satisfied the 
payment deferral wasnt misrepresented. So, I wont be asking MotoNovo to unwind this.However, I think MotoNovo couldve been clearer. And, instead of specifically answering the 
question Mr R asked, they shouldve explained exactly what would happen with the interest 
 that it would continue to be charged on the outstanding balance. In doing so they wouldve 
answered the question Mr R was actually trying to ask  will I be charged any interest at all, 
over and above the amount of interest showing in the original agreement, as a result of 
taking a payment deferral?. And, had MotoNovo been clearer, then Mr R couldve made a 
fully informed decision.
Given a choice between taking the payment deferral, in the knowledge that interest would 
continue to be charged on the outstanding balance, or missing payments and having arrears 
recorded on his credit file, I think its more likely than not that Mr R wouldve still taken the 
payment deferral. So, I dont think that MotoNovos lack of clarity has resulted in a different 
outcome that what would otherwise have been the case. And its for this reason I wont be 
asking MotoNovo to do anything more.
So, its now for Mr R to decide whether or not to accept the £80 compensation MotoNovo 
have offered him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about MotoNovo Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman