DRN-4008038
The complaint
Mr T complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed his Basic bank account and did so 
without any notice. Mr T also complains HSBC sent him a cheque when it knew he wouldnt 
be able to physically cash it - nor has he been able to. Mr T adds that a payment from a law 
firm has gone missing after being sent to HSBC.
Mr T says HSBCs actions have caused him financial loss, and substantive distress and 
inconvenience.
What happened
Mr T has another complaint against HSBC at this service under a separate reference 
number. To be clear, this complaint only deals with the heads of complaint as above.
In early May 2022, HSBC closed Mr Ts Basic bank account without giving him notice of its 
intentions to do so. HSBC sent Mr T a cheque for the closing balance to his registered 
residential address.
Mr T says, due to his circumstances, he was unable and effectively incapacitated to receive 
the cheque at his address, and then cash it into another bank account. He also says he 
didnt have another bank account  so this wasnt possible at the time.
Mr T says a law firm confirm it sent £3,300 to his HSBC account. But this amount wasnt 
included in the closing balance. So, he says HSBC are holding onto these funds.
Unhappy with HSBCs actions Mr T complained. HSBC didnt uphold his complaint. In 
summary, it said it had the right to close his account in this way and it was in line with the 
terms of the account.
HSBC reiterated it had sent him a cheque for the closing balance of £290.95, and that it had 
not received £3,300. And, had it received any payment, as the account was closed that day, 
all payments would have been returned to source.
Mr T referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it, and in 
summary, they found:
- HSBC acted in line with the terms of the account and followed its legal and regulatory 
obligations when reviewing and closing the account. HSBC acted fairly and 
reasonably here
- Most banks accept cheques by post  so Mr T wouldnt need a third party to cash it 
for him. HSBC have shown the cheque was deposited and cashed into Mr Ts new 
nominated account. 
Mr T is unable to obtain statements from this nominated account, and because of 
privacy concerns he doesnt want this service to contact the bank to obtain the 
statements. So, as the evidence shows the cheque was received and deposited, 
HSBC did nothing wrong by sending it given Mr Ts circumstances
- There is no evidence that a credit from a law firm entered Mr Ts account on the day 
it was closed. As the account was closed when the payment was sent, Mr T should 
contact the firm and ask them to get their bank to trace the payment. HSBC has 
made no error here
As Mr T didnt agree with what our Investigator said, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
I then sent Mr T and HSBC my provisional decision and asked both parties to respond. For 
ease of reference, here is what I said I was planning to decide: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Banks in the UK, like HSBC, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having seen HSBCs reasons for carrying out a review, Im satisfied it acted fairly, and in line 
with obligations placed upon it.
Account closure
Mr Ts account was closed with immediate effect. HSBC is entitled to close an account just 
as a customer may close an account with it. But before it closes an account, HSBC must do 
so in a way, which complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which HSBC and Mr T had to comply with, say that 
it could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
But Mr T had a Basic bank account with HSBC. This means HSBC also had to consider the 
provisions of the Payment Accounts Regulations 2015. Amongst other things, they set out 
when an account provider can close a Basic bank account.
Basic bank accounts are a type of current account intended for people who dont have and 
dont qualify for standard current accounts. And its partly because of this that HSBCs 
concerns, and any evidence it has in relation to this, had to meet a different standard.
HSBC has given me information about why it decided to close Mr Ts account. Having 
carefully considered this, Im persuaded HSBC didnt meet the standard expected to close a 
Basic bank account in Mr Ts case. Im also persuaded HSBC didnt do enough in relation to 
carrying out a proper investigation and carrying out due diligence to collect the information 
needed in the circumstances of this complaint.
So it follows that I dont think HSBC should have closed Mr Ts Basic bank account in the 
way that it did. Mr T wants to know what HSBCs reasons are. Our rules allow us to receive 
evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for a number of 
reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive 
information.Some of the information HSBC has provided is information that we consider should be kept 
confidential. I would also add that Im not aware of any obligation either HSBC, or I, are 
under to disclose the reasons.
Mr T says he didnt have another current account at the time, which added to the distress 
and inconvenience he suffered. Mr T adds that he was able to get another account with 
another bank some time later. Our Investigator has asked Mr T for statements in relation to 
this account to help reach a determination on a separate complaint point. But Mr T says he 
doesnt want to do this, saying in broad terms, he wants his privacy respected.
I can understand why Mr T feels like this. But to safely and fairly conclude that HSBC should 
not have closed his Basic bank account, Id need to be satisfied he didnt have another 
current account open at the same time.
So, though Im satisfied HSBC shouldnt have closed Mr Ts Basic account, I cant fairly 
decide this point until I have enough information to say Mr T didnt have another account. 
After all, if he did have another bank account, then the additional obligations placed on 
HSBC for when it can close a Basic bank account would be made redundant. Thats 
because, as Ive already said, Basic bank accounts are a type of current account intended 
for people who dont have and dont qualify for standard current accounts.
To find Mr T didnt have any other bank account open in early May 2022, Id need to see 
evidence either in the form of statements or a credit report. Im aware, having listened to the 
call, that Mr T has his own reasons for wanting to safeguard his privacy. But this information 
is materially relevant to the merits of his complaint. Any information Mr T provides us will be 
handled in confidence.
If Mr T can show he didnt have another bank account open at the time, then its most likely I 
will uphold this part of his complaint. That is, HSBC were wrong to close his account. In 
terms of fair compensation, I wouldnt be minded to direct HSBC to reopen his account - 
thats because Mr T now has another account.
But it would have to compensate Mr T for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. Mr T 
had to make several calls to HSBC about this, and this was made harder by his personal 
circumstance of having limited opportunity to do so. I also need to consider the impact of not 
potentially having another account for around a month.
So weighing up the overall impact this had on Mr T, Im minded to award £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience HSBCs account closure caused him. But to be clear, this is 
contingent on whether Mr T shows he didnt have another bank account at the time. Ive 
already said what information I need to be able to determine that.
Mr T has also said his credit file was adversely affected and hes suffered financial loss. I 
havent seen compelling evidence that this was the case.
Closing balance and cheque
HSBC have sent information from its internal systems which shows the cheque for Mr Ts 
closing balance was deposited into his nominated account. This account is the same one 
Mr T has opted not to send us statements for.
As I cant check the statements, I must rely on the evidence I do have. So based on what 
information I do have, Im satisfied Mr T, or someone acting on his behalf, received and was 
able to deposit his closing balance.Mr T says HSBC should not have sent him a cheque given it knew about his personal 
circumstances - principally that he wasnt living at his residential address. But given when 
the cheque was deposited, I dont think Mr T was significantly inconvenienced by it being 
sent in a cheque format.
Payment from law firm
HSBC say if a payment was received into the account on the day it was closing, it would 
have been returned to source. The account statement doesnt show a payment was made 
into Mr Ts Basic account before it was closed it.
So based on that, Im satisfied Mr Ts account didnt receive the funds and they were more 
than likely sent back to the remitter. Mr T should speak to the firm that sent this payment and 
ask its bank to trace this payment. If it can show the money wasnt returned, this is 
something Im happy to look into before reaching a final decision
In response, Mr T sent me his credit file and third-party bank statement. Hes asked that this 
information is kept confidential. 
After carefully considering this new information, I wrote to HSBC and in summary said: 
Mr T has sent me copies of his credit file. He has expressly asked that they are kept 
confidential. I have now looked through these carefully, and having done so I am satisfied he 
didn't have another bank account when HSBC decided to close his Basic bank account with 
it.
So that means, HSBC shouldn't have closed it in the way it did. As you'll note, I explained in 
my provisional decision that I'm persuaded HSBC didn't meet the standards expected of it 
when deciding to close a Basic bank account. So it follows, that I will be upholding 
this complaint in part. As explained in my provisional decision, and as Mr Tofangsazan has 
shown he had no other bank account, I will be directing HSBC to pay him £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused by closing the account in the way it did.
I'm still satisfied that Mr Tofansazan did receive the closing balance and was able to bank it 
into his new account. And I still haven't seen compelling evidence Mr Tofangsazan has had 
his credit file adversely impacted by HSBC's actions.
In response, HSBC say it has no further representations to make. So it follows that I must 
now decide this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons contained in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold this complaint in part. 
Im satisfied Mr Ts credit file and bank statements show he didnt have another bank 
account when HSBC closed his Basic bank account. I explained in my provisional decision  
as above  that if he could show this, I would be satisfied that HSBC shouldnt have closed 
his account in the way it did. So, it follows that HSBC have not acted properly here, and Mr T 
should be awarded compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
I explained previously why I think £250 is fair compensation, and I havent seen anything else to persuade otherwise. 
Mr T had said he didnt receive the closing balance from HSBC. In my provisional decision I 
said: 
 HSBC have sent information from its internal systems which shows the cheque for Mr Ts 
closing balance was deposited into his nominated account. This account is the same one 
Mr T has opted not to send us statements for
Having seen Mr Ts statements, though the debits and credits are redacted, I can see from 
the balance section that the same amount HSBC sent was deposited into his account. So 
given what Ive seen here, and for the reasons in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Mr T 
received the closing balance and it was deposited in his new bank account. 
Mr T hasnt sent any information relating to the payment from his law firm. So Im persuaded 
that these funds were sent back to the law firm as HSBC said. Finally, I havent seen 
evidence that HSBCs actions caused detriment to Mr Ts credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I now direct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr T £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman