DRN-3305704
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was provided with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality under a 
hire agreement provided by LEASYS UK LTD.
What happened
Mr S obtained a car using a hire agreement provided by LEASYS in November 2019. The 
agreement was to run for 36 months and required an initial rental of £2,264.40 followed by 
35 monthly payments of £754.80.
Mr S says that he reported a fault to the supplying dealer within three months whereby the 
cars entertainment system would shut down. He says he was told that the issue was related 
to the volume of the system being turned up too loud. The car was returned with the same 
issue a number of subsequent occasions in July, August and November 2019. I understand 
that the car had other issues relating to the folding mirrors and heated seats, but those 
issues were rectified and the infotainment system issue was not.
Unhappy that the issue had not been resolved, Mr S raised a complaint with LEASYS. It 
accepted the supplying dealer had attempted to rectify issues on a number of occasions. It 
said that the infotainment system was shutting down as a safety feature as a result of the 
volume being too high. It also said the other issues with the car had been rectified 
appropriately. It offered to refund Mr S one months payment of £754.80 as a gesture of 
goodwill, and without accepting liability.
Mr S didnt think that was fair. He asked for a refund of payments made, a reduction in the 
price of the agreement or to reject the car.
LEASYS maintained that the infotainment system shutting down was a safety feature. It 
suggested that the cars manufacturer said that the issue could be rectified by fitting 
upgraded speakers, which had been offered at no cost to Mr S. It didnt accept Mr Ss 
request to reject the car. It said the manufacturer was addressing Mr Ss concerns and 
offered to pay Mr S £750 in recognition of his dissatisfaction and in full and final settlement 
of the complaint.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service. He said that further attempts by the manufacturer 
to fix the infotainment issue by way of replacing speakers had not worked, so the issue was 
still present.
Our investigator accepted that there was a fault with the car. They also accepted that the 
fault was likely present when the car was supplied to Mr S, so it likely wasnt of satisfactory 
quality as it was required to be under relevant legislation. However, they noted that the fault 
with the infotainment system didnt affect the main purpose of the car. So, they didnt think 
itd be proportionate to allow Mr S to reject it.
They accepted the fault was frustrating for Mr S, but concluded that LEASYS offer to pay Mr 
S £750 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, particularly as the manufacturer 
appeared to be willing to continue to try to rectify the issue.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that the infotainment system was still regularly shutting down and 
the operation of the heated seats had been recently been affected by the issue. He asked for 
his payments to be refunded.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
In considering this complaint Ive had regard for relevant law, legislation, guidance, 
standards, codes of proactive and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time.
Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire agreement, which is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and one which we have the power to look into a complaint about.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this case. It implies that the supplier of 
goods  LEASYS in this case  was required to ensure the car was of satisfactory quality. In 
determining what satisfactory quality is, the CRA sets out factors which should be 
considered, such as the age and cost of the car when it was supplied. Satisfactory is defined 
as what a reasonable person would expect given the specific circumstances. Satisfactory 
quality also refers to a cars durability.
Mr S was supplied with a car which was a year old and he was required to pay more than 
£26,000 over the hire term, which is a significant sum. Given the car was relatively new, and 
I understand it to have been relatively low mileage for its age, I think it wouldve been fair for 
Mr S to have had an expectation that things on the car wouldnt break or fail for a reasonable 
period.
From whats been said by all parties involved in this case, I think its clear that theres a fault 
with the car, specifically that the infotainment system turns itself off. Im aware that initially 
the fault occurred when the volume was particularly high, so Mr S might still have had some 
use of the infotainment system by reducing the volume. However, Mr S has said that the 
fault occurs at lower volumes too.
Mr S has provided pictures and videos of the fault occurring. Additionally, Ive seen a letter 
which Mr S provided from a franchised dealer for the manufacturer which accepts that a fault 
has reoccurred despite an attempt to repair it. I know theres been some dispute about 
whether or not this was a safety issue, but I think its clear that letter accepts that its a fault 
rather than a feature.
Like our investigator, Im satisfied that this fault was likely present when the car was supplied 
to Mr S, as he reported the issue with a few months of taking ownership of the car. Im also 
satisfied that the fault has persisted despite a number of attempts to rectify it.
The fault with Mr Ss car hasnt prevented him from driving it. But it has meant that not all of 
the features of the car could be used, at least to the extent he wanted to use them. The car 
Mr S was supplied with is considered to be a prestige car, and I think thats reflected in its 
price. Such cars are likely to include additional features and technology, often operated by 
the infotainment system. The impact of the infotainment system shutting down is likely to 
affect a number of features. I think Mr S has made it clear from the outset that the use of the 
infotainment system is important to him, particularly listening to music. So, I think its 
understandable that Mr S considers the car to be of unsatisfactory quality and wants to reject 
it.
Overall, I think its fair to say that the use of the car has been impaired. So, I dont think itd 
be fair to expect Mr S to pay the full rentals for the car because hes not had full use of it, in 
a way that he could reasonably expect to. Determining what an appropriate price reduction for Mr Ss impaired use would be isnt straight forward. Ive considered the evidence both 
parties have provided me about the fault and its impact.
Taking everything into account, I think a reasonable price reduction would be 10% of the 
price of the rentals. So, I think LEASYS should refund 10% of the payments Mr S has made 
during the time that the fault was present, including his advance rental on a pro-rata basis.
Additionally, whilst Ive seen evidence the manufacturer agreed to work towards a solution, it 
noted that things might take a while to resolve given the pandemic. That was in January 
2021. Mr S has shown us that he had chased the manufacturer directly late last year but no 
resolution has been reached. Given that theres a fault with the car and it doesnt seem that 
theres a solution forthcoming, I think itd be fair for Mr S to be allowed to now reject the car.
Lastly, our investigator said that LEASYS ought to refund Mr S the cost of any diagnostic 
reports he incurred. I agree, but Mr S hasnt said that was the case or provided any evidence 
of costs incurred. If Mr S provides evidence of those costs, Ill consider awarding those. Im 
also aware that Mr S was given a courtesy car when he was without his, during 
investigations. If it comes to light that Mr S was without his car, or an alternative, due to 
investigations on the fault, Ill also consider making an award for loss of use based on the 
rental price Mr S paid. Ill otherwise set out my intended requirements of LEASYS below.
My provisional conclusion was that I intended to require LEASYS to;
- end the agreement with nothing further for Mr S to pay from the date he accepts my 
subsequent final decision;
- collect the car without cost to Mr S;
- refund Mr Ss advance rental payment of £2,264.40 on a pro-rata basis from the point 
the contract ends;
- refund Mr S 10% of the rental payments made towards the agreement in respect of 
impaired use from the date Mr S reported faults to the supplying dealer in March 
2020 until the date Mr S accepts my subsequent final decision; and
- Pay Mr S simple interest at 8% per annuum on the above sums from the date the 
payments were made until the date of settlement.
Both parties responded. LEASYS acknowledged the provisional decision and didnt add any 
further information. Mr S accepted but made this service aware that he had terminated the 
agreement and returned the car in December 20201. Given that we hadnt previously been 
made aware of that, I asked both parties to provide further information about the termination 
of the agreement. Mr S responded to say that hed been charged an early termination fee 
but LEASYS didnt respond.
I issued a clarification covering a minor change to my requirements of LEASYS as well as a 
discrepancy with the dates Id mentioned in my provisional decision. I said;
Since issuing a provisional decision on this case its been brought to my attention that the 
agreement was terminated In December 2021. As we werent made aware of this before my 
provisional decision, I intended to require LEASYS to collect the car and end the agreement, 
but Ill now need to change what I require it to do.
The first point to clarify is the date the agreement was entered into  the agreement itself 
says November 2019, which I referenced in my provisional decision. Based on whats now been said I understand that to have been an error, as both parties seem to agree it was 
actually November 2018. Due to this confusion, I also said that Mr S reported issues to the 
supplying dealer in March 2020, rather than 2019, which I now know is the case. However, 
this doesnt affect the outcome I intend to reach. 
Mr S has said that the agreement was ended a month early, ahead of the original term. He 
said that he incurred a charge to end the agreement early. Given that Mr Ss complaint is 
about the car not being of satisfactory quality and he had asked to reject it on that basis, I 
understand why he chose to end the agreement early. I also think that LEASYS ought to 
have allowed him to do so, without penalty. So, it should now repay any early termination 
fees or charges it asked Mr S to pay on termination. 
The rationale behind my provisional decision otherwise remains the same. So, now that the 
car has been returned and the agreement has ended, I intend to require LEASYS to pay Mr 
S;
- 10% of the payments he made towards the agreement in respect of impaired use 
from the date Mr S reported faults to the supplying dealer in March 2019.
- A pro-rata refund of his advanced rental payment  to be specific, for example, if the 
agreement was ended one month early then Mr S should receive 1/36th of the 
advanced rental payment as that payment covered the 36 month term of the 
agreement.
- A refund of any early repayment fees or penalties Mr S was charged on termination. 
- Simple interest at 8% per annuum on the above sums from the date the payments 
were made until the date of settlement.
I encouraged both parties to respond, and highlighted that LEASYS hadnt responded to my 
previous request for information. Mr S responded accepting what Id said, but LEASYS didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided any evidence or information which I consider materially 
new to the case, I find no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions set out above, 
and I now make those final.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that LEASYS UK LTD should pay Mr 
S;
-10% of the payments he made towards the agreement in respect of impaired use 
from the date Mr S reported faults to the supplying dealer in March 2019.
- A pro-rata refund of his advanced rental payment  to be specific, for example, if the 
agreement was ended one month early then Mr S should receive 1/36th of the 
advanced rental payment as that payment covered the 36 month term of the 
agreement.- A refund of any early repayment fees or penalties Mr S was charged on termination. 
- Simple interest at 8% per annuum on the above sums from the date the payments 
were made until the date of settlement.
If LEAYSYS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction
certificate if he asks/ask for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman