DRN-3172918
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited closed her student loan account after 
she applied for a deferment. 
What happened
Mrs S has a student loan with Erudio and has explained she previously successfully applied 
to defer her payments. Between 2015 and 2018 Mrs S has told us she experienced some 
serious health problems which impacted her ability to apply for deferment of her student loan 
payments. 
In 2018 and 2019 Mrs S successfully applied to defer her student loan payments. In 
September 2020 Mrs S says she submitted similar evidence of her income as previous years 
but her application wasnt accepted by Eruido. It asked Mrs S to provide evidence of 
employed income and a bank statement showing benefit income. Erudio said that Mrs S tax 
return was out of date for Mrs S employed income. Mrs S says she found Erudios request 
confusing as she thought the information already submitted was complete. 
Mrs S resubmitted the same evidence again but Erudio rejected it. Erudio requested the 
same information again. Mrs S has explained she thought this was a mistake so took no 
further action. But the deferment application wasnt approved and expired. 
Erudio went on to terminate Mrs S student loan account. Mrs S complained about the way 
Erudio had handled her complaint about the deferment application. In addition, Mrs S asked 
Erudio to consider how health problems had impacted her ability to apply for deferment 
between 2016 and 2018. 
Erudio didnt uphold Mrs S complaint and said its decision to terminate her loan account due 
to the arrears was correct. Erudio confirmed arrears had built between 2016 and 2018. 
Erudio said it would consider options for Mrs S account if she provided medical evidence. 
Erudio didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. 
Mrs S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator who upheld 
their complaint. The investigator was satisfied Mrs S circumstances meant she wasnt able 
to apply for a deferment between 2016 and 2018. The investigator said Erudio should either 
remove the arrears or retrospectively check whether Mrs S wouldve qualified for a 
deferment during that period. In addition, the investigator said Erudio should look at 
information Mrs S had supplied in January 2021 to assess whether she wouldve been 
eligible for deferment in September 2020. 
The investigator recommended that, if the deferment applications were retrospectively 
approved, Erudio should remove the arrears that had accrued and reinstate the loan, in line 
with its original terms. 
Erudio asked to appeal and said it didnt agree it had unfairly rejected Mrs S deferment 
application in 2020. Erudio didnt say why it was unwilling to retrospectively consider 
deferments for the years between 2016 and 2018. As Erudio asked to appeal, Mrs S 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs S complaint falls broadly into two parts, Ill consider each in turn. Im going to start by 
looking at Mrs S deferment application in 2020. I accept that Mrs S didnt submit the 
information Erudio wanted to see. But, I think thats on the basis of a genuine 
misunderstanding concerning the evidence already supplied and why it wasnt valid. When 
Mrs S received Erudios first response to her deferment application, she resubmitted the 
same evidence as she thought it was correct. I think Mrs S makes a reasonable point when 
she says Erudio shouldve done more to clarify exactly why the information shed already 
provided wasnt suitable for its purposes. Instead, Erudio sent the same information request 
to Mrs S which she assumed was received in error. 
Ive seen the evidence of Mrs S income provided and whilst I agree its not what Erudio 
subsequently asked for, Im satisfied her confusion about the matter was genuine. In my 
view, had Erudio done more to help Mrs S, she would most likely have successfully applied 
for deferment in 2020. I agree with the investigator that the fairest approach here is for 
Erudio to wind the clock back and retrospectively consider Mrs S deferment for 2020. 
Mrs S has also complained about the arrears that accrued between 2016 and 2018 and 
asked Erudio to consider her health and circumstances at the time. Erudio asked Mrs S to 
obtain medical evidence and its clear this wasnt an easy process. But Ive seen the medical 
evidence Mrs S sent Erudio and Im satisfied it shows she was experiencing a particularly 
difficult time during the period in question. Im not going to talk about Mrs S health problems 
in detail here as all parties have seen the medical records provided. But Im satisfied from 
the medical records and Mrs S testimony there were exceptional circumstances that 
prevented her from applying for deferment between 2016 and 2018.
Mrs S has told us her income level means she would always have qualified for a deferment 
and had successfully applied in the past. I think that adds weight to what Mrs S has told us 
about her health. If Mrs S circumstances hadnt been impacted by her health I think its most 
likely she wouldve applied to Eruido to defer her loan payments between 2016 and 2018 
and she claims. 
Taking all the available information into account and for the reasons Ive given above, Im 
upholding Mrs S complaint. 
Putting things right
To resolve Mrs S complaint, Erudio should take the following steps: 
- Either refund arrears accrued between 2016 and 2018 or consider retrospective 
deferment applications from Mrs S. If the deferment applications are successful, 
Erudio should refund the arrears accrued. 
- Erudio should retrospectively consider a deferment application for 2020. If 
successful, Erudio should refund the arrears accrued since that time. 
- If the deferment applications meet the relevant criteria, the student loan should be 
reinstated in line with the original terms and condition.
- As matters have moved on, Erudio should also consider deferment applications for 
the years 2021 and 2022 as required. - If Erudio has recorded the default on Mrs S credit file, it should take steps to remove 
it.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs S complaint and direct Erudio Student Loans Limited to 
settle in line with the above instructions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman