DRN-3704334
The complaint
Mr R complains that ClearBank Limited (trading as Tide) applied a chargeback to his 
business account which caused problems for his business. Mr R also complains that Tide 
didnt comply with a Subject Access Request (SAR) that he made.
What happened
On 8 September 2021, a payment was made from Mr Rs Tide business account to a car 
hire company, who Ill refer to as E. There werent sufficient funds in the account for the 
payment, but it was still processed. This left Mr R with a negative balance as Tide doesnt 
offer overdrafts. 
Mr R called Tide on 29 September 2021 to discuss repaying the negative balance and 
agreed a repayment plan.  He said the payment had been requested by E in error and Tide 
told Mr R to speak with E directly about this. However, Tide initiated a chargeback on the 
payment without telling Mr R. The payment was returned to Mr Rs account on 
6 December 2021. 
Mr R complained to Tide saying its actions meant that E would no longer allow him to hire a 
car. He says this meant he lost work he wouldve been paid for. Tide didnt uphold the 
complaint, so Mr R referred the complaint to us. 
Once the complaint had been referred to us, Tide looked into things again. It said it 
shouldve explained to Mr R the chargeback process thats followed if the payment had been 
taken by mistake. That is, a chargeback is requested automatically if the effect of the 
payment being (incorrectly) made means an account going into a negative balance. Tide 
offered £150 compensation to Mr R, plus interest of 8% (£19.31) equal to the amount that 
left Mr Rs account until the date it was recredited to his account.
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She thought Tides offer was fair, and 
explained this to Mr R. She didnt accept that the problems Mr R had experienced with E 
were as a result of Tides actions. She was also satisfied Tide had complied with the SAR. 
Mr R didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. So its been 
passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R originally told us that he had sufficient funds in his account to cover the transaction. 
However, Ive been provided with statements of his account. Based on these, he didnt have 
enough funds in his account to cover the amount that E charged. Tide doesnt offer 
overdrafts. So, it would typically decline a transaction such as the one in question which 
would, if authorised, take a customer significantly into a negative balance. However, this was 
a pre-authorised transaction. This is used by certain businesses, including car hire 
companies, to ensure amounts owed can be paid. So, I dont think Tide made a mistake 
authorising the transaction. Its possible though that E made a mistake by requesting the 
payment, but thats not Tides fault.
Ive listened to the call Mr R had with Tide when he tried to set up an arrangement to pay the 
negative balance on the account. He said at this point that E had taken the payment in error. 
As Ive said, this wasnt an error by Tide, but Ive heard Mr R ask whether there was 
anything that could be done to get the payment back. At this point, Mr R shouldve been told 
that a chargeback could be attempted, but Tide didnt do this. Instead, it told Mr R to take it 
up with E. So, Tide made a mistake here in the information it provided to Mr R. However, 
Tide automatically attempted a chargeback. And this led to the amount being credited back 
to Mr Rs account in December 2021. Tide shouldve informed Mr R this would happen as 
well.
Mr R had originally told us in his complaint that this chargeback being made affected his 
ability to hire cars and led to him missing out on work. But, given that Mr R told Tide that the 
payment had been taken in error, I think it was right for it to attempt the chargeback, though 
it shouldve told him it was doing so. 
Mr R has since told us the payment wasnt taken in error. If the payment hadnt been taken 
in error, then he owed the money to E. He didnt have enough in the account to make this 
payment. So, regardless of Tides actions, he wouldve needed to find a way to pay the 
amount owing to E. 
Ive reviewed the evidence presented by Mr R, and having done so Im not persuaded that it 
was the actions of Tide which prevented Mr R from being able to hire a car. I think its most 
likely E wasnt willing to deal with Mr R for another reason. So, Im not going to ask Tide to 
reimburse any loss of earnings as a result of this.
Tide has provided us with evidence that it has complied with Mr Rs SAR. If he still has 
concerns with this, such as what its provided, this is better dealt with by the Information 
Commissioners Office. 
In summary, I do think that Tide couldve communicated with Mr R better, including 
explaining to him that a chargeback was an available option to him and was in fact being 
attempted. But I dont think it was responsible for Mr R being unable to hire a car or the fact 
that he lost work as a result of this. Overall, I think the £150 compensation its offered for this 
as well as a refund of interest is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
ClearBank Limited should pay Mr R £150 plus £19.31 interest. I dont require it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct ClearBank Limited to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman