DRN-3302141
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P have complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly 
declined a claim under their home insurance policy.
I will normally only refer to Mr P as he has mainly dealt with the claim.
What happened
Mr P wanted to move a TV to a different room in his house. He removed the TV from the wall 
and attempted to lower it to the ground. However, he forgot to remove the TV plug from its 
socket, which snagged when he lowered the TV to the floor. He turned the TV on to see if it 
worked. A couple of minutes after doing so, the screen started to flicker. When he moved the 
power cable from side to side, the flickering would stop and start.
So, Mr P contacted Fairmead to make a claim. After a delay, the TV was collected for 
inspection. After a further delay, Mr P was told the claim had been declined because the 
damage was due to wear and tear. When Mr P complained, Fairmead confirmed it had made 
the correct decision by declining the claim, but said Mr P could get an independent 
assessment.
Several months later, Mr P complained again, as he hadnt heard anything further from 
Fairmead. Fairmead replied and said its decision to decline the claim was correct and that it 
had disposed of the TV. It offered £125 compensation for inconvenience experienced during 
the claim.
So, Mr P contacted this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Fairmead 
hadnt provided evidence of why the damage was more likely due to wear and tear. She also 
said Fairmead had prejudiced the claim by disposing of the TV without Mr Ps consent. She 
said Fairmead should continue to consider the claim without relying on the exclusion for 
wear and tear.
As Fairmead didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 2 February 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Mr P made a claim for accidental damage. Fairmead inspected the TV and decided the issue 
with the picture was the result of wear and tear. Fairmead has argued that there is no 
evidence to show the damage was covered by the policy. I agree there wasnt enough 
evidence to show the issues were the result of accidental damage. However, I think 
Fairmead then prejudiced the claim by disposing of the TV. Fairmead said it disposed of the 
TV because Mr P agreed to this, but I dont currently think that is an accurate assessment of 
what happened.
When the claim was declined, Mr P made a complaint. On 8 January 2021, Mr P disagreed 
that the damage was due to wear and tear and said to Fairmead:
They have said they're returning the TV to me and I've advised them that it will be refused. 
If you are in support [of] their findings and agree with their wear and tear comments then I 
must enquire what my rights of appeal are and if possible I'd like to appoint an independent 
assessor...
Fairmead then replied the same day and said:
We would be happy to look at any report provided by an independent assessor which this 
would then have to validated by our TV specialists.
A few days later, Fairmead added a note to their system that said:
insured  forwarding on an email he has sent to [the company that assessed the TV for 
Fairmead] advising that they do not wish to receive the TV back
Complaint is closed after the insured has been offered the right to get their own report
N - Insured to provide their report
Just over a week later, the company that assessed the TV for Fairmead sent an email which 
said:
The customer no longer wants the TV back confirmed on 08/01/2021. Please dispose.
The TV was then disposed of shortly after.
Mr P did refuse to take the TV back, but he said he wanted to appoint an independent 
assessor. He also discussed this with Fairmead and it was agreed that he could appoint an 
independent assessor to provide a report. I havent seen anything to show Mr P said the TV 
should be disposed of. I also cant see how an independent assessment could have been 
carried out if it was. So, I dont think Mr P or Fairmead had any expectation that the TV 
would be disposed of.
However, a couple of weeks after this was agreed, the company that assessed the TV 
seems to have interpreted the first message as consent from Mr P to dispose of it. In the 
circumstances, I dont think that was fair or reasonable. It didnt reflect what had been 
agreed between Mr P and Fairmead. If the company was unaware of what Fairmead had 
agreed, in my view, that is an internal issue for them to deal with. But, its Mr Ps TV that was 
disposed of and he was left with no further opportunity for the cause of damage to be 
investigated. So, I think Fairmead prejudiced the claim because of an internal 
misunderstanding about what Mr P wanted and what had been agreed to resolve the 
complaint.
Im aware that several months passed before Mr P then followed up on this, at which point 
he found out the TV had been disposed of. But, I dont think that makes any difference to 
Fairmeads responsibility for what happened. Fairmead had agreed it was reasonable for the 
TV to be independently assessed and, a few days later, a company working for Fairmead 
disposed of the TV.
So, Ive thought about what should happen as a result. As Fairmead disposed of the TV, no 
further inspection could be carried out. I dont know what that inspection would have found 
but, in the circumstances, I currently think the only fair outcome is that Mr P is given the 
benefit of the doubt. This means that Fairmead needs to settle the claim for the TV. So, I 
currently intend to say that Fairmead must deal with the claim as though Mr P had a valid claim for accidental damage to the TV. If Fairmead makes a cash settlement, it must also 
pay interest on that amount as Mr P will have lost use of that money.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 2 March 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Fairmead agreed to settle the claim but said it shouldnt have to pay interest on a cash 
settlement. It said Mr P hadnt replaced the TV so wasnt strictly out of pocket.
Mr P agreed with the decision overall, but said he wanted more compensation. He also said 
that it hadnt been possible to cash the cheque Fairmead had sent him because of the 
names it was in, so it needed to be reissued.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive also considered the comments from both parties. I remain of the 
view that Fairmead should pay interest on any cash settlement. This is because, regardless 
of whether he replaced the TV itself, Mr P lost use of any money paid as a cash settlement.
I also considered Mr Ps comments on compensation. When I made my provisional decision, 
I thought about how much Fairmead had offered when it dealt with the complaint and was of 
the view that £125 remained appropriate taking into account the full circumstances of what 
happened. Mr P should ask Fairmead to reissue the payment if he has been unable to bank 
the cheque that was previously issued. 
Putting things right
Fairmead should deal with the claim as though a valid claim for accidental damage had been 
made for the TV. If a cash settlement is paid, Fairmead should pay interest on that amount My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Deal with the claim as though a valid claim for accidental damage had been made for the 
TV.
If the claim is cash settled, pay 8% simple interest on any cash settlement from the date 
on which the claim was made to the date on which the claim is settled.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman