DRN-1964591
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited refused to pay part of Mrs Ms 
claim against a group medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M was a member of a group medical insurance policy with AXA PPP. Mrs M was a 
beneficiary under the policy. The benefit year ran from 1 May.
In February 2019, Mrs M made a claim under the policy. AXA PPP approved 10 sessions 
with an osteopath. Mrs M booked her sessions with the osteopath from March 2019 
onwards.
Mr and Mrs Ms membership lapsed on 1 May 2019. 
In November 2019, AXA PPP received an invoice for nine sessions from the osteopath who 
treated Mrs M. It paid for the sessions that took place before Mr and Mrs Ms membership 
ended but said that it wouldnt pay for any treatment Mrs M received after 1 May 2019.  
Mr M complained to AXA PPP. He says that it isnt correct to say that the cost of each 
treatment was incurred on the day of the treatment, as they had an oral contract with the 
osteopath for ten sessions, so the costs were incurred during the period when the 
subscription was paid. Mr M says that if AXA PPP is going to take this position, it should 
have been explained to him and brought to his attention. Mr and Mrs M want AXA PPP to 
settle their claim in full.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA PPP had 
treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly. Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He disagreed that the 
cost for each session only became due once the treatment was provided. Mr M maintained 
that during the period of membership of the group medical insurance policy, Mrs M had 
entered into a binding oral contract with the osteopath for a single course of treatment and 
its irrelevant that performance of the contract was over ten sessions. 
The investigator considered what Mr M said but it didnt change her view. Mr M asked that 
an ombudsman considers his complaint, so it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the membership. The membership 
handbook includes the following:
We will pay for covered costs incurred during a period for which the subscription has been 
paid.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA PPP has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because I dont think that AXA PPP acted 
unfairly. I say that because:
Mr and Mrs Ms membership of the group medical insurance policy ended on                  
1 May 2019. The central issue is whether the costs of Mrs Ms treatment were incurred 
before that date.  
Mr Ms contention is that Mrs M had an oral contract with the osteopath for ten 
treatments, so incurred the total costs at the outset.  But Ive seen no evidence to 
support that contention.
The osteopath didnt require Mrs M to pay in advance for all ten sessions. Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that Mrs M was required to agree that if she needed fewer than ten 
sessions, shed have to pay for all ten. In addition, the osteopath itemised each of the 
nine individual treatments she carried out and priced them separately. 
I think that the evidence suggests that Mrs M incurred the treatment costs on the dates 
she attended the sessions. So, Im not persuaded that Mrs M incurred all the costs 
before 1 May 2019. That means that, under the membership terms, AXA PPP isnt 
obliged to meet the claim in full. I think it acted fairly and in accordance with the 
membership terms when it paid for the treatments that took place before 1 May 2019 and 
declined the claim for those that occurred after that date. 
I think that the membership booklet sets out the position in clear terms and that 
AXA PPP wasnt obliged to take any other steps to bring this to Mr and Mrs Ms 
attention, either generally or during the authorisation call. 
My final decisionIm sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman