DRN-1614293
The complaint
Miss L says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her business (A) a commercial credit card. 
What happened
In November 2018 Miss L took out a commercial credit card for A with a Barclays business 
manager. She says one of the attractions of the card was the facility to manage it online 
which was important to her because she has a disability. However, after the card was issued 
she found she wasn't able to check the balance or the status of payments. 
Miss L made a separate complaint about this which was dealt with by another ombudsman. 
That ombudsman noted the problems were caused by technical issues with the online 
service which affected multiple customers. And while Barclays was investigating this there 
was no time frame for when the issue would be resolved. Looking at the impact of what had 
happened she thought it should pay A £500. 
Miss L said she was also unhappy with what happened when the policy was sold to A. She 
said Barclays should have told her about the problems with online banking at that time. And 
as online access was something she needed the credit card wasn't suitable for A.  That's the 
issue I'm considering in this decision. 
Barclays said the business manager who completed the application wouldn't have been 
aware of the technical issues affecting online services (which didn't impact all of its 
customers). But it agreed to pay A £25 in recognition of the inconvenience it had been 
caused. 
Our investigator didn't think Miss L had been intentionally misled but did feel Barclays should 
have made her aware of the issue with online services when she applied for the credit card. 
And he thought it likely she'd have opened an account elsewhere if that had been done. To 
recognise the impact on A of that he said Barclays should pay £75. 
Barclays reiterated that a business manager wouldn't have been aware of the problems with 
online services. But it accepted A had been inconvenienced by what happened and agreed 
the compensation payment. Miss L said the issues with her account were present from the 
outset and hadn't been fixed. She said she'd been sold a deficient service and wouldn't have 
taken out the card if she'd been told about the online problems. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't think it's in dispute that Miss L (on behalf of A) wasn't able to access online services 
and I understand why that was important to her. And she says the issues with that should 
have been made clear when she applied for the credit card. Barclays says that its business manager wouldn't have been aware of these problems and so couldn't have told Miss L 
about them. 
However, if there were significant problems with online services that had no anticipated end 
date and were affecting a large number of customers I think that's potentially something that 
should have been drawn to Miss L's attention. But even if that is the case I don't think it 
makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. I'll explain why. 
I appreciate if Miss L had been told about this she might well have decided to take out a 
credit card with another provider. That means the subsequent inconvenience A was caused 
could have been avoided. But A has already been compensated for that inconvenience 
following the other complaint Miss L made. So even if Barclays did get something wrong 
when this card was sold I don't see that's caused additional inconvenience to A. As a result I 
don't think it needs to do anything to put things right here beyond paying the £75 it agreed 
with our investigator.
My final decision
I've decided to uphold this complaint in part. Barclays Bank UK Plc will need to pay A £75. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L on behalf of 
A to accept or reject my decision before 24 August 2020
James Park
Ombudsman