DRN-2107001
The complaint
Mr F complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F has travel insurance as a benefit of his packaged bank account.
In February 2020, Mr F was abroad and due to fly home. Sadly, his father passed away and 
so Mr F had to cancel his return flight and remain abroad for a few days longer. He had to 
pay for a new return flight and he made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the costs 
he incurred.
Aviva turned down Mr Fs claim. It said there simply wasnt any cover under the policy terms 
 either under cancellation; holiday abandonment or enforced stay abroad.
Mr F was unhappy with Avivas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. While she sympathised with 
Mr Fs position, she didnt think the policy covered his situation. So she felt it was fair for 
Aviva to turn down Mr Fs claim.
Mr F disagreed. He thought the terms and conditions of the policy simply set out examples of 
scenarios that might be covered  they werent designed to be an exhaustive or 
comprehensive list. He felt the headings of sections, such as enforced stay abroad and 
abandonment were misleading. Mr F also considered that hed abandoned his original 
return flight.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down Mr Fs claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr Fs 
policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide whether I think Aviva applied its policy 
terms reasonably.
Firstly, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr F and his family for their loss. This 
mustve been a very distressing time for Mr F and Im sorry to hear about the circumstances 
that led to his claim.
But in making my decision, I need to think about the terms of Mr Fs policy and the events 
Aviva has chosen to insure. Generally, its for an insurer to decide what events it does and 
doesnt want to cover. It will set out those insured events in its policy terms and conditions.  
These terms form the insurance contract between Mr F and Aviva. 
Mr F has referred to a number of sections in the policy which he thinks his claim could be 
considered under. Ill deal with each of these in turn.
Initially, Mr F referred to the cancellation section of his policy. I acknowledge that Mr F did 
have to cancel his original return flight back to the UK. But cancellation cover is set out 
within a section called Before You Leave Home. And it applies if a policyholder needs to 
cancel their trip. Mr Fs trip wasnt cancelled.  Hed been able to travel abroad as planned 
and had had his holiday, even though the sad circumstances meant his trip needed to be 
extended. So I dont think Mr Fs claim falls within the scope of cancellation cover.
Ive then considered the abandonment section of the policy  which is called abandoning 
your holiday  if you need to return home early. Mr F feels he abandoned his original return 
flight. Ive looked closely at the policy definition of abandonment to see what Aviva 
considers it to mean. The policy says:
Returning to the UK before your scheduled return date (including being transported back by 
us to a UK hospital), or being an in-patient in hospital for more than 24 hours during your 
trip.
Its clear Mr F didnt need to come home early  as I set out above, he had to extend his trip. 
And he wasnt an in-patient in a hospital. So I dont think his situation is covered by this 
section of the policy.
Mr F has also stated that he feels his claim should be assessed under the Enforced Stay 
Abroad section, as he was effectively forced to remain abroad as a result of his 
circumstances. So Ive looked carefully at this section of the policy too. It covers the 
following circumstances:
If (a policyholder is) unable to return home on your scheduled return date due to:
a. the airspace being closed; or
b. an airport or port that you are scheduled to travel from or through being closed; or
c. your flight being cancelled as a direct result of volcanic ash in the atmosphere, 
I think this section of the policy clearly explains the specific circumstances in which a claim 
will be considered  closure of airspace; of an airport or port or cancellation due to the 
impact of volcanic ash on a flight. I simply dont think Mr Fs situation can fairly and 
reasonably be considered to fall within the scope of any of these specific terms. 
Having considered the policy terms as a whole, while I sympathise with Mr Fs position, I 
dont think his claim is covered by any of the events Aviva has chosen to insure. I appreciate 
Mr F feels the scenarios its included within the policy document as examples of when cover 
might apply arent exhaustive. In my view, the scenarios Aviva has included under each 
head of cover set out a situation that might be covered by one of the terms set out 
underneath the scenario. I think theyre clearly intended as examples only and I dont think 
theyre misleading or suggest that the policy is intended to cover more than the specific 
terms Aviva has listed below each scenario.
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably direct Aviva to 
pay Mr Fs claim. This means I think it was fair for Aviva to turn it down. I appreciate Mr F has been left out of pocket as a result of needing to buy a new ticket, but his policy simply 
doesnt provide cover for his situation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman