DRN-3616348
Complaint
Mrs H has complained that Lendable Ltd (Lendable) irresponsibly lent to her. 
Background
Lendable provided Mrs H with a loan for £5,000.00 in September 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 28.84% and a 36-month term. This meant the total amount repayable of £7,275.58, 
which included interest, fees and charges of £2,275.58, was due to be repaid in 36 
instalments of just over £200. One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought 
that Lendable unfairly provided this loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was 
unaffordable. Lendable disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Hs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mrs H would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs H wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Lendable complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Lendable provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Lendable to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mrs Hs ability to make the repayments under 
these agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lendable had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs H. In practice this
meant that Lendable had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mrs H undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lendable to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs H. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Lendables checks reasonable and proportionate?
Lendable says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs H prior to 
providing her with her loan. It also carried out credit checks. Mrs H declared that she was 
earning around £2,221.00 net a month. Lendable also said that its credit checks showed that 
Mrs H had existing total debts of just under £2,000.00, spread across a credit card, an 
overdraft and an unsecured loan. And as far as it was concerned it was satisfied that this 
was enough to show that the monthly payments for this loan, of just over £200, were 
affordable.
Ive carefully considered what Lendable has said. However, Im mindful that Mrs H was 
being provided with £5,000 and was being expected to maintain payments for a period of 
three years. And in these circumstances, I would have expected Lendable to have verified 
Mrs Hs income as well as get some idea of her living costs, before determining that she 
could make the monthly payments without difficulty. 
I appreciate that Lendable may have cross-referenced Mrs Hs declaration of income against 
information held by credit reference agencies. But I dont think that this is the same as verifying Mrs Hs income, given credit reference agencies wont have had access to payslips 
or other records of Mrs Hs income. Furthermore, I cant see how Lendable could have 
understood Mrs H would be able to keep up with the loan repayments for the term, when it 
appears to have no idea of what Mrs Hs non-credit related expenditure was each month.  
Bearing all of this in mind, I dont think that the checks Lendable carried out before providing 
Mrs H with her loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Lendable that Mrs H
would have been unable to repay her loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Lendable that Mrs H wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Mrs H has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mrs H has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Lendable mightve carried out. Furthermore, I want to 
make it clear that Im not saying that Lendable was required to obtain copies of Mrs Hs bank 
statements before lending to her either.
But, given I now have to recreate what proportionate checks are likely to have shown, in the 
absence of anything else from Lendable, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to place considerable weight on Mrs Hs statements as an indication of what 
her financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at the time. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mrs Hs 
income was pretty much being used to meet her existing credit commitments and living 
costs. Furthermore, Mrs Hs bank statements also show that she was significantly overdrawn 
too. Ive seen what Lendable has said about what the purpose of the loan was recorded as 
at the time of the application. But even if I accept that the purpose of the loan was 
consolidation, I dont see how assuming that this would have been done was actually going 
to place Mrs H in a better position. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs H was already in a difficult financial 
position. And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have alerted Lendable to the fact that Mrs H was in no sort of position to 
make the payments on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did Lendable act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way?
Ive thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that Lendable acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way. So Im not 
persuaded that Lendable did act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way.
Did Mrs H lose out as a result of Lendable unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Mrs H paid and is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of 
what Lendable did wrong. So Lendable needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Lendable needs to do to put things right for Mrs HHaving thought about everything, I think that Lendable should put things right for Mrs H by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs H made, whether to Lendable or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mrs H has already repaid more than £5,000.00 then Lendable should treat any extra 
as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs H to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Lendable recorded about this loan should be removed from Mrs Hs 
credit file.
if an outstanding balance does remain once all adjustments have been made, 
Lendable should get in contact with Mrs H to arrange an affordable payment plan. Id 
also remind Lendable of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration, 
if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance and it be the case that Mrs H is 
experiencing financial difficulty. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lendable to take off tax from this interest. Lendable 
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint. Lendable Ltd needs to put 
things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman