DRN-2709690
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc caused delays when he refinanced his 
mortgage. He asks for compensation for additional interest.  
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage with Bank of Ireland. He wanted to re-mortgage with another provider. 
He wanted to increase his borrowing to help a family member buy a property. Mr H says 
Bank of Ireland delayed his re-mortgage. First, it refused to release the original title deeds 
for the secured property to his solicitor, which Mr H says would be usual conveyancing 
practice. Second, it didnt tell Mr Hs solicitor it wouldnt release the original deeds for over a 
month.
Mr H says this resulted in his re-mortgage being delayed by about two weeks. He paid 
interest at Bank of Irelands standard variable rate, instead of at the lower rate offered by his 
new lender. And he and his wife had to use short term borrowing to provide money for his 
sons purchase. Mr H says his additional interest costs are about £330.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I said I thought Bank of Ireland had caused delays and should pay compensation 
to Mr H. Both parties agreed and so my findings and decision below are substantially the 
same as in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happened?
In early March 2020, Mr Hs solicitor asked Bank of Ireland for a redemption statement 
calculated to 30 April 2020, and the original title deeds for the secured property. The solicitor 
made the same request a week or so later. Bank of Ireland sent a redemption statement. But 
it didnt send the title deeds or tell Mr Hs solicitor it wouldnt provide them.
Mr Hs solicitor called Bank of Ireland on 9 April, chasing for the title deeds. Bank of Ireland 
said it would send the deeds within 15 days. Later that day it noticed the solicitor wasnt on 
its panel and wrote to him saying it wouldnt release the original deeds. This was just before 
Easter weekend. Its unlikely Mr Hs solicitor received the letter, and found out Bank of 
Ireland wouldnt send the original title deeds, until at least 14 April 2020.
Mr H called Bank of Ireland on 16 April, and this was when he was first told it wouldnt send 
original deeds to his solicitor. Bank of Ireland said it could send copies. Its notes say it sent 
an urgent request to expedite sending copies on 17 April 2020. It seems it needed to order 
the deeds from its store.
Bank of Ireland sent copies of the deeds to Mr Hs solicitors on 29 April 2020  after Mr H 
chased it again. The re-mortgage completed on 15 May 2020. Bank of Ireland released the 
original deeds on 28 May 2020.
Did Bank of Ireland make errors which delayed Mr Hs re-mortgaging?
I dont know if Bank of Irelands practice of not releasing original deeds except to solicitors 
on its panel is unusual. While Mr H says thats the case, I dont have other evidence to 
confirm this.
I do think though that Bank of Ireland should have responded when Mr Hs solicitor first 
contacted it. It should have either sent the original deeds, as requested, or explained it 
wouldnt do this and what options were available to allow the conveyance to proceed. The 
solicitor asked for a redemption statement, so Bank of Ireland was aware of the intended 
completion date.
Mr Hs solicitor first requested the deeds in early March 2020: Bank of Ireland says it 
received their letter on 11 March. It didnt respond to the solicitor to say it wouldnt provide 
original deeds until 9 April  and then it sent a letter after having just told the solicitors on the 
phone it would send the deeds. Mr Hs solicitor wouldnt have known there was a problem 
until 14 April 2020, at the earliest.
Even after Mr H spoke to Bank of Ireland on 16 and 17 April and Bank of Ireland agreed to 
send copies, it didnt send the copies until 29 April 2020.
Mr Hs solicitor was also acting for his new mortgage lender. I think its reasonable to 
assume the new lender would have required the solicitor to check the property title was in 
order. The property title isnt registered with the Land Registry, and so the solicitor needed to 
check the title deeds. Usual practice would then be for the solicitor to then send a report or 
certificate of title to the lender, which it would then review internally before it releases funds.
The solicitor didnt receive the copy title deeds until 29 April 2020. I dont think this was 
enough time for the re-mortgage to complete by 30 April or 1 May 2020.
Mr H says he started the re-mortgage process at the beginning of March to allow enough 
time to complete by 30 April. I think the fact that this wasnt possible was due to delays by 
Bank of Ireland in responding to Mr Hs solicitors and in providing copy title deeds. 
Mr Hs re-mortgage was delayed by two weeks. He says he paid about £330 additional 
interest as compared to being on his new lenders rate of 1.29%. He provided the mortgage 
illustration showing this rate.
Putting things right
I think the delays likely caused Mr H inconvenience and upset and Bank of Ireland should 
compensate him for this. I think £500 compensation for the additional interest and Mr Hs 
upset and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As Bank of 
Ireland has already paid £50, I think it should pay another £450 to Mr H.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay £450 to 
Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman