DRN-2777700
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold motor insurance by Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited 
trading as Marsh Commercial which wasnt suitable for his needs, or the cheapest available 
policy.
What happened
Mr B had motor insurance arranged through Marsh for some years. In August 2020 Marsh 
wrote to Mr B telling him theyd carried out a review of samples of motor policies theyd 
arranged for customers between 2012 and 2018. This had shown that although all the 
products theyd sold were suitable for their customers needs, for some customers a cheaper 
policy may have been available, but they couldnt say if this information had been given to 
those customers. 
From the review Marsh had calculated that the average amount a customer would have 
saved, if theyd been advised of the cheaper policies that were available, was £373.82. So 
they offered this amount as compensation. If a customer wasnt happy with the 
compensation offered, they were told they could ask Marsh to carry out a full review of their 
individual file, and this could result in them being offered more, or less compensation, or that 
none might be due.
Mr B asked Marsh to carry out a full review of his file. Having done this Marsh told Mr B that 
he hadnt been offered the lowest available premium in five of seven years theyd 
considered. And they calculated the compensation he was due by taking the difference 
between the lowest available premium for those years and the premium he was charged. 
They added 8% interest to figure and made him an offer of £132.25 compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with this offer and made a complaint to Marsh. In this he said that he was 
unhappy with the unprofessional advice theyd provided, he felt hed been deceived by 
Marsh, and if hed been aware of this at the time, hed have cancelled the insurance hed 
arranged through them. He requested a full refund of the premiums he paid from 2012 to 
2016, together with any interest he paid on those premiums and 8% interest on the total sum 
to be refunded.
Marsh didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They said their review hadnt been based on whether 
Mr B could have obtained cheaper motor insurance elsewhere. It was based on whether 
theyd had cheaper quotes on their files which they hadnt advised him of. Theyd carried out 
the full review of his file hed requested, and when hed asked for this, hed signed a form 
acknowledging that this might result in him being offered a lower amount of compensation. 
And the reduced compensation hed been offered was the difference between the amount 
hed paid for his insurance and the cheapest available quotes they had on file, inclusive of 
8% interest.
Marsh also said their initial letter apologised for their oversight and they were sorry Mr B 
hadnt been contacted at the time, but this was the reason hed been offered compensation 
once an audit identified the problem. And they couldnt agree that any refund of the 
premiums hed paid was due, as hed had the benefit of the cover that was arranged for him.
Mr B was unhappy with Marshs response and complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the case and said that she thought Marsh had acted fairly. She 
didnt think thered been any deception as Marsh had advised Mr B of the error that had 
been made. And theyd tried to put him back in the position he had been in if hed been 
advised of the cheapest available quotes they had on file, by refunding the additional 
premiums hed paid with interest.
She didnt think it was fair to ask Marsh to refund the premiums Mr B had paid from 2012 to 
2016, as hed had the benefit of this insurance. And even if hed known Marsh had made a 
mistake, and hed cancelled the policy hed arranged through them, hed still have needed 
car insurance, which he would have needed to pay for. So she felt Marsh had done enough 
by refunding Mr B the additional premiums hed paid.
Mr B wasnt happy with our investigators opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B arranged his car insurance through Marsh for seven years, so I can understand why he 
was upset when he found that for five of those years, they hadnt advised him of the 
cheapest insurance quote that was available. Hes feels let down by them when hed relied 
on the service they offered to their customers. 
When Marsh reviewed Mr Bs file they found he hadnt been offered the cheapest quote from 
2012 to 2016. In these years hed needed insurance for his car, so the product was 
technically right, but he wasnt offered the best available deal. He still got the insurance he 
needed, but Marsh got something wrong as cheaper quotes were available, which Mr B 
wasnt told about. Mr B has told us, and I accept, that if he been advised of the cheaper 
quotes these are what hed have chosen.
Where a business has got something wrong, we need to consider whether they have acted 
reasonably when this was discovered. 
  
When Marsh discovered, during an audit, that certain customers havent been advised of the 
cheapest available quotes, they contacted the affected customers, including Mr B, and 
offered them compensation based on the average amount a customer would have saved 
had they been advised of the cheaper policies available. This is in line with what wed expect 
them to do, to put the customers back in the position theyd have been in if theyd been 
offered the cheapest available quotes.
Had he accepted Marshs offer at this stage Mr B would have received £373.82. But he 
didnt, he opted for his case to be individually reviewed, and this resulted in him being 
offered a lower figure of £132.25. While this would have been disappointing for Mr B, I think 
the explanation Marsh provided, of what could happen if a case was individually reviewed, 
makes it quite clear that this could result in him receiving a lower amount, or nothing at all. 
And Im satisfied that by paying him £132.25 inclusive of interest Marsh have provided Mr B 
with a refund of the additional premiums he paid as a result of their mistake.
Mr B wants Marsh to refund the whole of the premiums he paid from 2012 to 2016 together 
with any interest he paid, and 8% interest on the total refund. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Marsh to do this. They provided Mr B with insurance for his car, which he was required by law to have, and he had the benefit of that insurance for the period each 
of his policies covered. And in this case, I think Marsh have done enough by refunding the 
additional premiums Mr B paid, so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint 
against Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited trading as Marsh Commercial.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman