DRN-2561514
The complaint
Mr S, in a personal capacity and on behalf of the estate of Mrs S, complains about the
administration of Mrs S ISA held with Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL). His
concerns focus on two main areas  the transfer of investments from Mrs S account to his
account and FASLs reporting of her transactions for tax purposes.
What happened
Mrs S sadly passed away in October 2016. Over the course of 2017/18 a number of
requests were made of FASL in respect of the administration of Mrs S ISA. Initially in 2017
there was a request for several sales to be made of holdings on her account. Unfortunately,
an error occurred, and two holdings were sold in full rather than in part. A complaint was
made about this but resolved by FASL in early 2018. For clarity, this decision is not
concerned with the merits of that complaint.
Later, in July 2018 a request was made for FASL to transfer the remaining investments to
Mr S, and information was sought in respect of transactions made on Mrs S account, so tax
reporting for the estate could be completed.
A further complaint was raised in May 2019 by solicitors acting on behalf of the estate,
primarily concerning issues with the transfers and provision of tax information. It is this
second complaint thats the subject of this decision.
FASLs position on the various issues can be summarised as below.
It complied with its obligations and issued confirmation of transaction (CoT) letters
and tax vouchers in respect of Mrs S account.
Its not always possible to show the book (original) cost of an investment, for
instance, where its been transferred in, so these are only provided where possible.
Its not unusual for income and rebates to continue to be credited to an account
following the account holders passing.
On receipt of a second transfer request in July 2019, a residual balance on the
account was transferred to Mr S account once his new address had been confirmed.
There was in-specie transfer of the remaining stock so there was no loss incurred by
Mr S. A payment of £250 was made to him for the inconvenience and delay related to
this transfer, along with a payment of £180 to his solicitors.
A new investment account had to be opened for Mr S as it wasnt possible to transfer
directly from Mrs S investment account to his ISA. CoTs showing the relevant new
account number were provided to Mr S.
The final fee applied to Mrs S account of £27, paid for through disinvestment of
stock, was correctly applied given the holdings on the account as of July 2018.
FASL confirmed that it was not prepared to make any payment in respect of the solicitors
time to deal with the estate, as it had provided all the information it was required to. Nor
would it make any payment in respect of loss relating to the delayed transfer, or the fees 
charged.
Our investigator considered FASLs position in respect of the matters raised in the second
complaint to be fair and reasonable, including the offers made in respect of the transfers.
She said, in brief;
It seemed accepted that FASL didnt fully follow the instructions to transfer the
income and rebates to Mr S existing ISA and close Mrs S account and instead
opened a new account for the transfer.
She understood the frustration this wouldve caused because of the time the new
account took to be located but FASLs explanation of why it had been opened was
reasonable.
Although the opening of the new account was justified, it couldve been
communicated to Mr S more clearly.
FASLs offer in relation to the handling of the transfer was fair and reasonable.
In respect of the documents provided by FASL the investigator noted that the
solicitors had acknowledged that FASL had provided the documents it was legally
obliged to so she didnt feel she could reasonably ask them to do anything beyond
this.
In respect of the fees charged by FASL, these appeared to be charged correctly, in
arrears in accordance with the terms of service.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He felt that the true nature of the complaint had
been missed and that the apparent exoneration of FASL implied that the solicitors had acted
incorrectly. He added:
The new account set up to receive the transfers from Mrs S ISA had been
unserviceable and inaccessible.
It took weeks/months to discover the new account and once it was found the
solicitors discovered that the transfers hadnt been completed.
The compensation suggested doesnt cover the loss of time and fees caused by
FASLs lack of attention to detail and its errors.
Mrs S account continued to be traded on inappropriately following her passing.
No final tax position could be established because of numerous transactions
continuing.
This made reconciliation of the account for the estate very difficult.
The figures provided by FASL were incompatible with the UK tax system.
All charges and commissions relating to the further transactions should be refunded.
The investigator considered Mr S further submissions but wasnt persuaded to change her
opinion. So, the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in part:
As noted, several issues have been raised in relation to the administration of Mrs S ISA. 
But it seems that the primary concerns that led to the raising of the complaint thats under
consideration here are; the difficulties in identifying the new investment account set up to
receive the transfers from Mrs S ISA and the tax-related information received from FASL.
In respect of the former, I understand and accept why it was necessary for FASL to set up
the new account, as transfers between a general investment account and an ISA werent
possible. It was not indicated in any of the documentation provided to Mr S or his solicitors
that such a transfer would be possible and the form that Mr S completed to initiate the
transfer made no reference to be able to transfer to an ISA.While I accept that it could nevertheless have perhaps been made clearer to Mr S what
FASL had done in response to his incorrect transfer request  creating the new account for
him  it strikes me as a reasonable course of action to take in the circumstances in order to
help facilitate the transfer. This is particularly so as Mr S was an existing customer of FASL
with other accounts and the number of the new account was communicated in all the CoT
letters sent to him and his solicitors.
The transfers were all completed in-specie, so there were no delays or selling of stock that
might have led to a loss for Mr S. While the transfers may have been made to the wrong
place  inasmuch as they didnt go into his ISA as he wished  they were transferred to him
nevertheless, so placed under his control and available for sale, or for further transfer from
the new investment account to his ISA  so as to achieve his desired outcome.
Turning to the issue of the information provided by FASL for the purposes of administering
the estate, while I note all that Mr S has said about the accuracy, or otherwise, of this and its
apparent incompatibility with other systems, Ive not seen that anything provided to him or
his solicitors was incorrect.
It may be the case that it was limited in some ways  for instance, the point FASL have
made about not necessarily being privy to the book price of certain holdings. But as an
execution-only service, FASLs responsibility for providing this type of information was
unavoidably limited. Ive also not seen that there were transactions on Mrs S account
following her passing that were incorrect or unauthorised. Its quite normal for there to be
some activity on an account in the circumstances  payments of income or rebates, etc.
The administration of an estate is often a complicated and lengthy process and while I
understand the frustration of this  and the associated costs  to uphold a complaint about
FASLs actions in this respect I would need to see evidence that it failed to provide
information it was contractually or legally required to provide (of note is the fact that Mr S
solicitors acknowledged that FASL had provided the documents they were legally required to
provide) or provided information that was wrong. As I say, Im not persuaded this happened.
In summary, Im satisfied that the offers already made by FASL in respect of the transfers, of
£250 to Mr S and £180 to the solicitors are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr S responded in disagreement with my provisional decision. He reiterated his concerns 
saying, in brief, that FASL had failed to cease trading holdings when instructed to and had 
not provided figures for reconciliation. As such, it was impossible for a proper calculation of 
the estates accounts to be completed. He said that FASL had provided numerous reports 
that showed different amounts for different transactions and provided some documentation 
that he felt supported his position. 
Mr S comments were put to FASL, which confirmed that it had not carried out any trading 
following Mrs S passing without receiving clear instructions to do so. It gave examples of 
such, including when in April 2017 it had received instructions from the solicitors to the 
estate to sell some assets and pay the proceeds to HMRC. FASL provided copies of 
documentation to support this communication and the confirmations provided to the 
solicitors. FASL also confirmed the sales of November 2017, again on the instructions of the 
solicitors, to sell holdings in two funds. It was these sales that were carried out incorrectly, 
and which led to the aforementioned first complaint, which, as noted, was resolved. 
FASL said there were no other trades on Mrs S account, but there wouldve been dividend 
and other administrative transactions. In respect of the figures for reconciliation, FASL noted that it had provided a number of 
different types of documents  contract notes, valuations and statements, tax letters  but it 
could not see that any information provided was incorrect. It noted that confusion may have 
been created by Mr S reviewing statements and valuations that represented the position of 
the account at different points in time. FASL also drew attention again to the solicitors 
comment that FASL had provided the documents it was legally required to. 
Mr S added some final comments, reiterating his concerns about the information provided 
and his view that it was incomplete and that FASL had failed in its responsibilities. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise Mr S will very disappointed, I remain of the view set out in 
my provisional decision, that the offers already made by FASL in respect of the transfers, of
£250 to Mr S and £180 to the solicitors are fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive 
not been persuaded that any further compensation is warranted. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the administration of an estate is often a complex, time-
consuming and costly business. This is particularly the case when dealing with investment 
accounts with multiple holdings. While Mr S clearly encountered some issues when dealing 
with FASL in the administration of the estate, Im satisfied that these have been addressed. 
Ive not seen anything that persuades me that FASL acted incorrectly beyond these 
acknowledged issues. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman