DRN-3672147
The complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC suspended access to his internet banking without a valid 
reason.
What happened
On 2 July 2021 Mr B discovered he could not access his account online and wrote to the 
bank asking why. Lloyds responded asking Mr B to call but he could not get through, so he 
wrote again. On 13 July 2021 Lloyds wrote to Mr B asking it to call its Fraud Operations 
team to resolve this, explaining it had some concerns about a payment made on his internet 
banking and the possibility he had opened a phishing email. During the time Mr B had no 
internet banking access he continued to receive emails inviting him to view his online 
statements.
In its final response Lloyds said it blocked Mr Bs access as it was concerned his online 
banking may have been compromised after he opened a phishing email. It paid him £50 
compensation to cover his call cost whilst trying to resolve this and £20 for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator initially said Lloyds response was reasonable and found the information it 
submitted to this service supported its response. But Mr B re-iterated that he had not 
responded to any such email. He said Lloyds itself said in its letter of 13 July 2021 that the 
block was applied because of concerns with a payment made online. He had only made one 
online transaction, that was on 7 May 2021. At this point he also said he did not receive the 
£50 compensation.
Our investigator asked for more information from Lloyds. On receipt she still decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint but revised some of her findings. She said Lloyds now accepted the 
suspension had not been due to a phishing email and it apologised for the trouble and upset 
this had caused Mr B. On 7 May 2021 a block was placed on an online transaction Mr B was 
attempting. He called the bank at 14.51, the block was lifted and Mr B then successfully 
completed the transaction at 15.18. However a second block was placed on his account on 9 
May 2021. 
Unfortunately as Lloyds only retains its internet banking log for 12 months it cannot tell us 
now why this block was applied. But this was the reason Mr B was unable to logon 
successfully on 2 July 2021. Our investigator said though that whilst Mr B was given 
incorrect information about the reason for the block, this did not alter the outcome. He still 
needed to call the Fraud operations team as Lloyds directed him. And it remained true that 
Lloyds was entitled to apply blocks to protect its customers account. She separately sent 
evidence to Mr B to show that Lloyds had credited his account with two payments for £20 
and £30 on 16 July 2021.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review. He pointed out the 
letter of 13 July 2021 clearly states the suspension was due to a payment made by internet 
banking. But we are now saying it began on 9 May 2021 when the only internet transaction 
he made since January 2021 was the one on 7 May 2021. And as this had already passed 
additional security checks there were no reasonable grounds for the suspension. Also, if 
Lloyds credited his account on 16 July 2021 why was access not re-instated then as this 
must mean the account was secure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, in other words, what I think is most likely based on the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. I have considered all of Mr Bs comments 
carefully but in keeping with our role as in informal dispute resolution service I will focus here 
on the points I find to be material to the outcome. 
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
It is less than ideal that Mr B was given incorrect information after he complained to Lloyds. I 
note it has apologised for this. But this means I dont think he can rely on the letter of 13 July 
2021 that references an internet transaction as the cause of the suspension. I say this as we 
now know the payment on 7 May 2021 was not the trigger. Mr B completed it successfully 
after his call with the bank. This however leaves us in the frustrating position of not knowing 
why a block was applied two days later, as the banks records show happened. 
Lloyds has explained it only holds a rolling 12 months of the data that would allow us to 
understand the trigger for the second block. But in the absence of this, I still have to decide if 
the available evidence shows Lloyds made a mistake and applied a block with no valid 
reason. I cant fairly conclude it did. On balance I think it is most likely Lloyds would have 
applied the block in line with its standard policies. I havent found any evidence to suggest 
this was not the case, rather we just cannot now know the reason due to the time elapsed. 
But I cant fairly extrapolate from this that Lloyds made a mistake.
When Lloyds wrote to Mr B on 13 July 2021 it set out what he needed to do to re-activate his 
access. I accept it was frustrating for him as it was hard to get through to the Fraud 
Operations team, but in the banks letter on 16 July 2021 it did offer that he could instead call 
the complaints team and they would transfer him. I dont agree with his point that the bank 
crediting his account with the £50 compensation is evidence it could have lifted the 
suspension. The bank has fraud prevention policies it has to follow to lift a block, and it 
needed to speak to Mr B. He has indicated dissatisfaction with the banks insistence he call 
on UK premium rate numbers but as the bank compensated him £30 for his call costs, and 
some future call costs I cant see any unresolved detriment.  I also find the £20 it paid for the 
inconvenience to be reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Mr B was frustrated to receive messages instructing him to view his online 
statements whilst he had no access. But the bank had a responsibility to continue to send 
him this information, and it could not know how long he would be without access. Mr B also 
asked us to consider a loss in revenue he was due to receive from 1 August 2021 that he 
argues Lloyds banks actions have prevented. But as I have found no error on the part of 
Lloyds  with regards the account suspension - I will not be making any related award.
Finally, I do want Mr B to understand that I cannot consider how Lloyds have managed his 
complaint. But there have no doubt been failings during its investigation  a better review at 
the time would have allowed access to the data that showed the reason for the block on 9 
May 2021. But complaint handling is not a regulated activity and therefore not something 
that falls into our jurisdiction.It follows I am not instructing Lloyds to take any further action.    
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman