DRN-3428222
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W complains that National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) 
closed its account without giving an explanation, and delayed the switch process to its new 
bank.
To put things right, W wants NatWest to reinstate its accounts and pay compensation. 
W is represented by one of its directors, Mr M.
What happened
On 9 December 2021, NatWest wrote to W saying it intended to close Ws accounts in 60 
days. It didnt give a reason for its decision and simply said it had decided to close the 
accounts after undertaking a review of Ws banking arrangements.
Mr M complained. He said hed been denied an extension to the 60-day deadline and that 
NatWest had held up the switch to a new bank. NatWest issued its final response to the 
complaint on 14 March 2022. It said it couldnt disclose the reasons for its decision, but 
apologised for failing to respond to the new bank. Although it noted that W had since been 
able to open an account with a second bank so it said a response to the first bank was no 
longer necessary.
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought Ws complaint to our service. He said the situation 
had put terrible stress on him and his business partner. And had put his business at risk of 
financial harm.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ws complaint. He said NatWest had complied with its terms of 
business when it closed Ws accounts and that it wasnt obliged to share the reasons for its 
decision. But he did think NatWest had let W down by failing to reply to the new bank. To 
make up for the impact on W of having both of its directors distracted by having to chase 
NatWest, he awarded W £150.
Mr M reluctantly accepted that NatWest was entitled to close Ws account, but felt its failure 
to respond to his new bank warranted greater compensation. He said the second bank had 
opened an account for W, but hadnt agreed an overdraft. Whereas the first bank had agreed 
an overdraft in principle. He said hed been able to inject personal funds into the business, 
but said W would have gone bust if it werent for those funds.
Our investigator thought about what Mr M had said, but didnt change his opinion. So the 
case came to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
Having considered the information NatWest has provided, Im satisfied it acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of Ws accounts when it closed the same. The 
terms and conditions require it to give 60 days notice, which NatWest did. And the terms 
dont require NatWest to explain why it decided to close the accounts. I appreciate Mr M will 
be frustrated at not knowing why NatWest closed Ws accounts, but for the reasons Ive set 
out above, I cant fairly make an award in Ws favour.
Failing to respond
In NatWests final response letter, it said it couldnt release the debenture it had with W. But 
that, given W had opened an account elsewhere, it assumed the first bank no longer needed 
the information it had asked for in relation to the debenture.
However, having seen the document the first bank had asked NatWest to sign, I cant see 
that doing so would have released W from its debenture. The document appears to act as 
permission for the first bank to receive credits payable to W into Ws new account and draw 
against those credits.
NatWest hasnt confirmed whether it would have signed the form, had it been brought to the 
attention of the correct person at the time. But in the circumstances of this particular case, 
given the nature of the form and given NatWest hasnt provided a persuasive reason as to 
why it shouldnt have signed the form (and has in fact accepted it made an error), I take the 
view that it should have completed it and returned it to the first bank.
That being the case, I need to assess the impact NatWests failure had on W. Mr M has told 
our service about the impact this has had on him personally, as well as Ws other director. 
Specifically, hes told our service about the stress this caused and hes said he wouldnt 
have had to touch his personal funds (from a recent inheritance) if W had opened an 
account with the first bank.
But because this complaint is brought by W, a limited company, I can only look at the impact 
NatWests actions had on W, and not its directors personally. Further, while I understand Mr 
Ms concern at what could have happened if W didnt have access to funds from Mr M, I can 
only reasonably make an award for actual losses suffered, and not potential losses or losses 
that might have accrued, but for the actions of W/Mr M. 
And, having looked at what Mr M has told our service and in light of the above, I agree with 
our investigator that £150 represents fair compensation. Ws directors had to spend time 
chasing NatWest and applying for a second account that they wouldnt have had to do, but 
for NatWests omission. And I consider that time warrants more than just an apology, given 
the disruption it would have had on W. However, I cant make awards for the other items Mr 
M is claiming for the reasons Ive set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank PLC must pay W £150 in recognition of 
the inconvenience W experienced.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman