DRN-1942382
The complaint
Miss P complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds communication in 
recovering her policy excess after a claim made on her motor insurance policy. Miss P is 
represented in this matter by her father. She wants better communication and the claim 
settled. 
What happened
Miss P made a claim two years ago and Advantage appointed solicitors to deal with her 
claim for her uninsured losses, her £200 policy excess. But Miss P said she hadnt heard 
from the solicitors and she wanted the case settled. Advantage said the other drivers insurer 
hadnt responded to its contacts. But it agreed that there had been poor communication and 
that it had mismanaged Miss Ps expectations. It offered Miss P half her policy excess, £100, 
and £150 compensation.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Advantage 
should have kept Miss P better informed. But she thought the claim was likely to be settled 
50/50 split liability, at best, so Miss P would only then recover half her policy excess. So she 
thought Advantages offer was fair and reasonable. 
Miss P replied that she thought Advantage should pay her £1,550 compensation to cover its 
savings in legal costs, her increased premium due to the open claim, her excess refund and 
her time and trouble. She wanted Advantage to pursue the claim in the courts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss P feels frustrated that its almost three years since the collision 
and matters are yet to be settled. Shes explained that she didnt have replies to her 
communication from the solicitors. I cant consider that here as thats a matter for the Legal 
Ombudsman. But I can look at how Advantage responded when she raised her concerns 
with it. 
Advantage said its communication with Miss P about her legal representation had been poor 
and that it hadnt managed her expectations. I can see that it took Advantage some time to 
appoint solicitors. And then Miss P complained to Advantage about their lack of 
communication. 
I can see that Miss P called Advantage frequently for updates, but little progress was made 
in recovering the losses from the other drivers insurer. This was because liability was in 
dispute. It was one drivers word against the others in the absence of independent evidence. 
And, more importantly, the other insurer was based outside the UK and was in 
administration. So the solicitors told Advantage that the costs of pursuing an action to 
recover the losses would likely exceed the outlay. But they were pursuing UK based agents 
of the insurer and other avenues to recover the outlay. 
I think Advantage could have told Miss P about these circumstances earlier. As it was, she 
was unfairly left expecting matters to be concluded. So I agree that Advantage could have 
done more.
When a business makes mistakes, we expect it to restore the consumers position as far as 
its able to do so. And we consider the impact the mistake had on the consumer.
Miss P wanted Advantage to pursue the claim in the courts. Advantage is entitled under the 
terms and conditions of its policy with Miss P to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees 
fit. Miss P has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement of her claim, whether she 
agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont 
find it unusual. 
Also, insurers are entitled to take a commercial decision about whether its reasonable to 
contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
Advantage is still pursuing the other insurer. But it may find that the cost of court action 
outweighs any recovery it may make. And so it may decide to compromise. So I cant say 
that it must take the other insurer to court. 
Miss P wanted her excess refunded. Advantage says that because of the accident 
circumstances, the claim is likely to be settled 50/50 split liability. In which case Miss P 
would receive a refund of half her excess. Its offered to refund this to her now, without 
waiting for the other insurers response. So I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Advantage also offered Miss P £150 compensation for its poor communication and failure to 
manage her expectations. Miss P has had to proactively seek updates. I think Advantage 
could have been clearer about the complexities of recovering its outlay from the other insurer 
and the time this may take. So I think its offer of compensation is fair and reasonable as its 
what Id require in similar circumstances.
Miss P wanted Advantage to pay for the increase in her premiums due to the open claim. 
But, as Ive explained above, the claim is most likely to be settled as split liability. And so 
Miss P would have a fault claim on her record and her premium would be affected. Its 
standard industry practice for a claim to be kept open until liability is settled and recoveries 
made. So I cant say Advantage is responsible for the increase in Miss Ps premiums. 
As far as I can understand, Miss P also wanted Advantage to pay her what it had saved by 
not going to court. But I dont think this would be fair or reasonable as Miss P hasnt incurred 
these costs and so they arent her financial losses.
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss P, I think Advantage should pay her £100 for half her policy 
excess and £150 compensation for its poor communication, as its already agreed to do. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss P compensation as set out above and 
as its already agreed to do. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman