DRN-4271427
The complaint
Ms F complained that Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa) irresponsibly granted her a personal loan 
in April 2022 that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In April 2022, Ms F took out a loan of £16,000 over a term of 48 months, with a monthly 
repayment of £434.65. 
In summary, Ms F told us that she had other loans and credit card debts when she took out 
the loan detailed above, and that she is now having to use her credit cards to make ends 
meet, which is affecting her mental health. Ms F would like the loan to be written off, and 
interest and charges refunded.
Ms F complained to Zopa about this in March 2023. Zopa said it had carried out appropriate 
checks before granting the loan, and told Ms F that it did not uphold her complaint. Ms F 
then brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and thought it 
should be upheld. Zopa didnt agree, and asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Zopa completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms F would be able to make the repayments on the 
loan account in a sustainable way.
Zopa sent in copies of Ms Fs loan application and agreement and its assessment of her 
circumstances, including information from her credit history. Ms F has provided copies of her 
bank statements for the three months preceding the loan application. 
Zopa said in its final response letter that, when assessing any loan application, its 
underwriting team considers several factors including (but not limited to) credit profile, credit 
history and affordability. Decisions are made based on information given in the application 
itself and obtained from various Credit Reference Agencies (CRA). It said that in Ms Fs 
case, all minimum lending requirements were met.
Looking at the information Zopa provided about its assessment of Ms Fs circumstances, it 
verified Ms Fs stated income of £27,400, and calculated that this equated to a monthly 
income of £1,872.42. It calculated the total monthly outlay on her existing credit 
commitments (including her mortgage) as £1,155, leaving a disposable income of £717.42. 
Zopa also completed a credit check and found no adverse payment history on Ms Fs file. As 
far as I can see it relied on the information from the application and the CRAs.
However, I dont consider that Zopa carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. I 
cannot see that the calculation of disposable income allowed for an estimate of essential 
living expenses, so its difficult to see Zopas expectation of Ms Fs actual disposable 
income. Zopas checks showed that, as well as her mortgage, Ms F had unsecured debt 
totalling nearly £21,000, and her credit history showed that she had taken out two credit 
cards in the preceding three months, and a third a few months before that.
I can see that the loan application showed the purpose of the loan as debt consolidation, and 
I accept that Zopa would reasonably expect some of Ms Fs other credit commitments to be 
repaid. But nonetheless this would still leave Ms F with a high level of unsecured credit 
relative to her income. So I think Zopas assessment of Ms Fs circumstances should have 
prompted more detailed enquiries about her income and expenditure, especially as the loan 
was for a considerable amount and the repayments quite substantial. And I wouldve 
expected Zopa to check what credit commitments Ms F was intending to settle, to allow it to 
assess whether the proposed loan repayments were sustainable. 
Ms F has provided us with bank statements as evidence of her financial circumstances when 
she applied for the loan. I can see from these that her monthly income was in the region of 
£1,760  less than that calculated by Zopa - and I can see that Ms Fs current account 
balance was generally reduced to a few pounds just before her salary was credited each 
month, even with some extra money credited from what looks like her savings. Looking at 
regular expenditure, such as council tax and insurance for example, it seems to me that 
these items together with household costs such as groceries would account for most if not all 
of Ms Fs income after payment of her credit commitments. 
Ive kept in mind that, as the loan purpose was stated to be debt consolidation, repayments 
on the new loan could reasonably replace some of Ms Fs outgoings on existing credit 
commitments. But even taking this into account, Im not satisfied Ms F had enough 
disposable income to sustainably cover the new loan repayments  after allowing for credit 
commitments and essential living expenses, it seems to me that she would have had little or 
no capacity to cover any unexpected costs. 
Zopa has commented that Ms F has not raised concerns about financial difficulties, and that 
repayments have been made on time. However, this decision relates to the granting of the 
loan, and in any case I do not have details of how Ms F is currently managing her finances  
I note that in her complaint she mentions using credit cards to make ends meet. 
In summary, Im not satisfied that Zopa carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before granting this loan  it seems to me that Ms Fs circumstances ought reasonably to 
have prompted a more detailed review of her income and outgoings.
If Zopa had done such a review, I think I wouldve shown that the monthly repayments on the 
new loan were unlikely to be sustainable. I say this because, taking account of Ms Fs credit 
commitments (allowing for some to be replaced by the new loan), and her essential living 
expenses, and the pattern of transactions on her current account (as I noted Ms Fs balance 
was frequently very low just before being paid), Im not satisfied that she was left with 
enough disposable income to manage those repayments sustainably. So I dont think Zopa acted fairly in granting this loan to Ms F. I think Ms F has lost out as a result and therefore I 
uphold her complaint. 
Putting things right
I dont think Zopa should have provided the loan to Ms F, so I dont think its fair for it to 
charge any interest or charges on that loan. However, Ms F still needs to repay the capital 
amount she borrowed. Therefore, Zopa should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms F has made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£16,000.00 originally lent. If once all adjustments have been made this shows that 
Ms F has made overpayments, these overpayments should be refunded to Ms F, 
together with interest at 8% simple a year* from the date they were made to the date 
of settlement.
if, once all adjustments have been made this shows that Ms F still has an outstanding 
amount to repay, Zopa should contact Ms F to arrange a suitable repayment plan. Ms 
F is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Zopa to reach a suitable 
agreement for this.
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made then Zopa 
should remove any adverse information (if any) it recorded on Ms Fs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Ms F a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the 
refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I have decided to uphold Ms Fs complaint.  Zopa Bank Limited 
should compensate Ms F as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman