DRN-4282596
The complaint
Mr K has complained about his car insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) regarding the 
settlement it has paid for his replacement windscreen.
What happened
Mr K has a policy with UKI which includes cover for repairing/replacing his windscreen. It 
was damaged in December 2022 and he arranged to use a local dealership whom he 
believed to be an approved windscreen supplier as defined in the UKI policy. The 
replacement screen cost him £1,080.49.
UKI wouldnt agree to reimburse that sum to Mr K. It said the garage Mr K had used was not 
its approved windscreen supplier. So, in line with the policy wording, it would only pay him 
£125.00, plus £45.42 for calibration. Mr K complained.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint and it was passed to me for consideration. I felt 
it should be upheld, that UKI hadnt settled within what the policy terms allow for, so it should 
be covering Mr Ks outlay in full. As such I issued a provisional decision to both parties. 
Mr K said he was satisfied with my decision. UKI said it had no objection to my findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
UKIs policy sets out definitions for words and phrases used within its policy which have 
special meaning. There are two of relevance here which sound similar but are distinctly 
different in their meaning and implication. And only one actually applies to the windscreen 
cover. UKI, in its replies to Mr K and our service has talked a lot about Mr K not using its 
approved repairer. The policy defines approved repairer as:
A repairer in our network of contracted repairers whos approved by us to carry out repairs 
to your car following a claim under the policy.
So its quite specific. An approved repairer isnt just any garage with capability of working on 
and/or relevant expertise to allow it to work on any particular car. The definition explains that 
the policyholder can expect UKI to want to use certain traders only, with it being up to UKI to 
say who an approved repairer is. I think if I was assessing Mr Ks complaint against that 
term, I might have some sympathy with UKIs position. But this is about Mr Ks windscreen 
and the policy cover for windscreens does not rely on the phrase approved repairer.
The phrase of relevance to the windscreen cover is approved windscreen supplier. The 
policy says that if an approved windscreen supplier is used, UKI will pay for repair or 
replacement up to the market value of the car. And if a different supplier is used, only a 
limited payment will be made. As UKI was only prepared to pay Mr K £125, and an amount 
for calibration which was also necessary, this is what UKI was relying on  that Mr K used a 
different supplier, not an approved windscreen supplier. The problem for UKI though, as 
I see it, is that the policy definition for approved windscreen supplier is not specific in the 
way approved repairer is. Rather, for approved windscreen supplier, the policy says it is 
a repairer approved and authorised to repair or replace your cars windscreen. Theres 
nothing to put Mr K on notice that UKI intends for that approval and/or authorisation to come 
from it, that any repairer not chosen by UKI will not be considered to be an approved 
windscreen supplier. And it seems the garage Mr K used was viewed by his cars 
manufacturer as an approved windscreen supplier  it had the capability and expertise to 
replace the windscreen for Mr Ks car. 
As such, I dont think UKI can fairly restrict its settlement to Mr K to that paid when a 
different supplier (other than an approved windscreen supplier) is used. So I intend to 
require it to pay Mr K £1,080.49, less both the settlement already made and the policy 
excess of £75, but with interest. UKIs decision did frustrate Mr K, but Im not minded to 
make it pay compensation for this relatively minor upset. 
Given the replies from the parties, Ive no need to make further comment or change my 
provisional findings. They are now those of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require UKI to pay Mr K:
£835.07 being the sum Mr K paid (£1,080.49) less the policy excess and payments 
already made by UKI for replacing the windscreen, plus interest* from the date it settled 
the other sums until this settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require UKI to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman