DRN-3638035
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt do enough to protect him when 
he fell victim to a scam and hasnt reimbursed him for his loss.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
Mr K made payments of £2,000 and £250 on 12 February 2021 and £250 on 13 February 
2021 to an investment company which I will call P. He asked P for a refund but was told the 
money had gone.
Mr K told us he raised a chargeback for the payments with Santander. But Santander said it 
didnt have any record of him requesting this and hadnt received the relevant information 
required within the relevant timeframes. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. They concluded that there was insufficient 
evidence to persuade them that P was operating a scam. And they didnt think Santander 
had acted unreasonably in declining to raise a chargeback. But Mr K disagreed so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  Ill explain why. 
Not every complaint referred to us about investing in binary options or CFDs is in fact a 
scam. Some complaints simply involve high-risk investments, such as bets on the 
performance of a share price or commodity that has resulted in disappointing returns or 
substantial losses. 
Santander has a duty to protect customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud. But 
when simply executing payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of 
bad bargains or give investment advice. And they have an obligation to follow payment 
instructions without undue delay. So, my first consideration in this case is whether the 
investment company was operating a scam at the time Mr K made his payments to them. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr K has provided and Ive done my own research 
too. At the time of the payments, P was regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange 
Commission (CySEC)  and that still appears to be the case. 
According to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register, P is EEA authorised with 
temporary permission and can offer certain products or services in the UK. But, as of 12 
April 2021, P must not conduct any regulated activities with, or in respect of, any client 
resident in the UK, except as is necessary to comply with further requirements relating to the 
closing of trades and return of balances. However, Mr Ks payments were made prior to 
12 April 2021. 
Without sufficient evidence from a reputable source, such as the FCA register or the 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), I cant fairly say this was a 
fraudulent company, or that it was operating a scam, at the time of Mr Ks payments. On 
balance, I think these were simply high-risk investments. As a result, I cant reasonably hold 
Santander responsible  its only required to protect Mr K from the risk of financial loss 
because of fraud. 
I move on next to the recovery of Mr Ks funds. Santander didnt raise a chargeback as it 
said it didnt receive the information it required within the applicable timeframe. I havent 
seen sufficient proof that the relevant information was provided in time. So I cant fairly 
conclude that Santander should have pursued a chargeback for Mr K. I also note that, given 
these payments were made to a seemingly legitimate company and were most likely then 
used in trades, its unlikely a chargeback would have been successful. 
So for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman