DRN-4148137
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim she made under her 
commercial property block insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S is a freeholder of a flat which is covered by a block insurance policy underwritten by 
Aviva. Miss S paid £1,470.48 for roof repairs which Aviva has declined to cover under the 
insurance policy. Miss S has brought a complaint to this service as a beneficiary of the 
policy, and as it is her that has incurred a financial loss for the cost of the roof repairs.
In April 2022 Miss S noticed damage to the ceiling in her flat from the roof above. She paid 
for roof repairs to be carried out in July 2022 and made a claim to Aviva in November 2022 
for reimbursement of those costs.
Aviva were unable to inspect the damage as repairs had been completed several months 
before the claim was made, and Miss S didnt have any images of the damage before 
repairs were completed. 
Aviva declined the claim. They said there wasnt sufficient evidence to show damage was 
caused by a one-off storm, which is an insured event under the policy.
Miss S was unhappy with Avivas position, so she approached this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She wasnt 
persuaded Miss S had shown a storm was the dominant cause of damage, so she didnt 
think Aviva had acted unfairly by declining the claim.
Miss S didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Miss S is being represented in her claim and complaint by her broker. Where Ive referred to 
Miss S, that also includes any actions or communication carried out by her broker on her 
behalf.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Were there storm conditions?
Miss S policy with Aviva covers damage caused by a one-off event of a storm (subject to the 
remaining policy terms and any applicable exclusions). But the exact date damage was 
caused to the roof is unknown, as Miss S only discovered there was an issue with the roof 
after water started to enter her flat in April 2022. So, the exact date of the storm which 
allegedly caused damage is unknown too.
However, Aviva reviewed weather records and found storm conditions eight weeks prior to 
April 2022, they appear to accept there was a storm at some point prior to the damage being 
discovered. Therefore, I dont need to make a decision on this point.
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Miss S has claimed for the cost of repairing and replacing tiles on the roof. This could be 
storm type damage, in the right circumstances and right conditions. But here, there is limited 
information as to what the damage is or what caused it, beyond some tiles being loose and 
displaced, which could be caused by a storm, or could have been caused by many other 
reasons too.
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
As I say, loose or displaced tiles could be storm type damage. But there are many other 
reasons why a roof could have loose or displaced tiles, such as maintenance issues, wear 
and tear or poor workmanship.
For a claim for storm damage to succeed, a single one-off storm would need to be the 
dominant cause of the damage being claimed for. And its for the insured to show, on 
balance, an insured event has occurred.
Here though, there is limited information to support a one-off storm was the dominant cause 
of damage. As a starting point, the exact date of damage  and a specific storm event - isnt 
known. And as Ive mentioned, there are no images of the damage to the roof. And Aviva 
also wasnt able to inspect the damage either, as repairs had already been completed 
several months prior to the claim being made.
When Miss S approached contractors for repair quotes, she said:
I am looking for repairs to a few slates that have come loose in the high winds we 
had a few months ago. Scaffolding will be needed as we are right on the main road. 
This is a insurance job.
So, Miss S said the winds were the cause at some point in the past, but this doesnt show 
with certainty that the damage was caused by an identifiable one-off single event of storm, 
and in the absence of specifics such as when it actually happened, it could potentially have 
been caused by other means.
One of the quotes provided to Miss S outlined the works included erecting scaffolding to 
replace any broken roof tiles and replacing a downpipe. But there wasnt any detail around 
what caused the damage specifically, beyond outlining some tiles needed replacing more 
generally.
And the other quote, which Miss S went ahead with, also only outlined erecting a scaffold 
tower, to Carry out slate repairs as required and leaving the area clean and tidy after. There wasnt any explanation of how the tiles were damaged, how many were damaged, in 
which area(s) or any more detail about the work required or reasons. So, this quote from the 
time wasnt conclusive whether it was storm damage, maintenance, historic damage or any 
other reason.
Whilst it may be that the tiles came loose at some point, that couldve been due to a single 
one-off event of storm, or the weather couldve highlighted a pre-existing issue with the roof. 
Miss S approached the roofing contractor around six months after they completed works and 
asked for their comments, and they said:
I can confirm that 4 slates were replaced at (sic) the wind had blown them off the 
roof and were in the gutter/ground below.
This is the full extent of the detail they provided. Which doesnt confirm the damage was 
caused solely due to a one-off storm event, rather than an issue with the tiles, highlighted by 
the wind at some point previously. 
They also provided the following answers to four questions presented to them by Miss S 
some six months after the repairs were carried out:
Further to your email to (Miss S) below, it would be helpful if we could confirm to 
insurers:
Did the damage appear consistent with storm conditions Yes
Did you consider the roof suffered a lack of maintenance No
Did you consider that any other area of the roof required attention No
How would you consider the general condition of the roof Good
Whilst I acknowledge what they have said here  which isnt detailed and six months after 
they carried out works, I already agree that tiles could be damaged in a storm in the right 
circumstances and conditions as Ive mentioned above. But Id need to be persuaded a 
specific storm was the dominant cause of damage, not just that there was a storm, and tiles 
had been displaced, at some point in the past. 
But there is very limited information beyond the limited comments above, such as images of 
the damage at the time, or that there was a specific one-off storm event when the damage 
occurred, to support that the dominant cause of damage here was solely due to a single 
event of storm - which is what the policy covers. Consequently, I dont think Miss S has 
demonstrated an insured event caused the damage, so I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly 
by declining the claim.  
Aviva has said that if Miss S is able to provide any further evidence in support of her 
position, she should submit it to them, and theyll consider things further. I dont think Avivas 
position on this is unreasonable. And whilst I appreciate Miss S says she has sent 
everything she is able to provide, I cant hold Aviva responsible for Miss S not having 
enough evidence to be able to sufficiently demonstrate an insured event occurred. 
Miss S discovered the damage, had it repaired three months later, and contacted Aviva a 
further four months later to make a claim. Had it been reported when discovered, Aviva 
could have either inspected the damage, or agreed next steps such as confirming what 
evidence Miss S would need to provide when making a claim in order for her to show an 
insured event occurred.Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Miss S has demonstrated the dominant cause 
of the damage was solely due to a single one-off storm event, or consequently that an 
insured event occurred. Therefore, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly by declining the 
claim at this stage.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman