DRN-3503545
The complaint
Miss R complains that AmTrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) caused further damage to her 
sofas and a chair after she claimed under her furniture protection policy.
What happened
Briefly, Miss R had a furniture protection policy with Amtrust which provided accidental 
damage cover for her sofas and chairs. She claimed under the policy after the fabric on both 
sofas and a chair was accidentally damaged. Amtrust tried to clean the furniture but 
damaged the fabric further. 
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Rs complaint, but I wont be asking Amtrust to do any more than 
already proposed by our investigator. Ill explain.
The policy Miss R bought provides cover for her furniture for up to five years from the date of 
purchase. Ive considered Miss Rs complaint and how Amtrust handled her claim taking into 
consideration the relevant policy terms and conditions. Ive quoted them here for ease of 
reference.
Section 3 - What is covered
Your product is covered for the cost of repair in the event of a sudden and unintentional 
incident
1. If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part  
[or]  provide a replacement product [or] settle the claim by a cash payment
The cover is limited as follows:
2. The most the insurer will pay under this Furniture Protection Plan is limited to the 
original purchase price of your product up to a maximum of £15,000If any item of 
furniture is replaced following a successful claim no further cover will be available 
under this Plan for that replacement.
The policy doesnt provide cover for:
6. Any gradually occurring stain or damage, any gradually occurring general soiling 
which results in build up and any multiple stains occurring over a period of time.
Claim
I think the terms are clear - Miss R could reasonably have expected Amtrust to clean, repair 
or replace her furniture, or cash settle her claim providing it was for accidental damage 
caused during an individual incident.
Amtrust accepted the claim but it wasnt able to clean or replace the fabric on a like-for-like 
basis, so it offered a replacement or cash settlement. But Miss Rs complaint is that Amtrust 
caused more damage by trying to clean the furniture and as a result she has lost out on 
around a year of cover, and she is required to contribute towards the cost of replacing 
undamaged furniture. 
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of this complaint and, having done so, I dont 
think Amtrust has treated Miss R unfairly for the following reasons:
The claims forms Miss R submitted show that two sofas and a chair were damaged 
by coffee, cola, water, ink and oil stains during separate incidents. Given that the 
policy doesnt provide cover for multiple stains occurring over a period of time, or 
anything claimed more than 28 days after it happened, I think it was helpful that 
Amtrust accepted the claim in the first instance.
Although Miss R said Amtrust caused more damage when it tried to clean the stains, 
I dont think it was wrong to try because the policy provides for cleaning as a first 
step. While I accept that Amtrust might not have used the appropriate cleaning 
method (water), the three pieces of furniture already had multiple stains, so its more 
likely than not that they wouldve needed recovering anyway. This is also what Miss 
R thought Amtrust shouldve done.
Miss R said Amtrust shouldve gone straight for the fabric replacement option rather 
than trying to clean, because by the time Amtrust had followed the steps and reached 
the option of recovering the furniture, the fabric had been discontinued. Miss R 
blames Amtrusts delays for the loss of matching fabric. The policy doesnt guarantee 
an exact match  it provides for the best possible match. But, looking at Miss Rs 
emails to Amtrust, I see that she asked for a different fabric anyway, to which it 
agreed. She specifically said she wanted a fabric which wouldnt stain as easily. So, I 
cant fairly say that the discontinuation of the original fabric caused any significant 
detriment to Miss R.
I understand Miss R is upset that shed need to contribute towards the cost of 
replacing or recovering the undamaged chair. As the chair wasn't damaged, the full 
value isnt covered under the policy. However, Amtrust offered to contribute 50% 
towards the cost of matching the undamaged chair. Going back to the point above, 
Miss R asked for a different fabric, so she wouldve incurred the cost of matching the 
second chair anyway. I think Amtrusts offer to pay 50% towards matching the 
undamaged chair is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Overall, I cant say that Amtrust treated Miss R unfairly with the steps it followed when 
handling her claim. Its response was in line with the terms of the policy and Im satisfied that 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Policy availability
Miss R is unhappy that she hasnt had the benefit of her policy while the claim was ongoing. 
Looking at the evidence, I havent seen anything to show that the policy was unavailable to 
her for other claims. For example, if she had accidentally damaged the previously 
undamaged chair, she wouldve been able to make a claim under the policy.
I understand Miss R doesnt think its fair for Amtrust to use up her policy balance to 
indemnify her for the claim because she believes its actions contributed to the damage. 
While I see why she might think that  the cover would be cancelled once the policy limit was 
reached - for the reasons Ive given above, I think its more likely than not that the furniture 
wouldve needed recovering anyway because of the multiple stains evident on three of the 
four pieces before Amtrust tried to clean them. 
Due to additional damage caused during the cleaning process, Amtrust offered to recover 
the furniture. As the fabric and replacement parts were no longer available, Amtrust then 
offered to replace the furniture up to the policy limit, or cash settle. Replacement of the 
furniture means the policy automatically comes to an end, regardless of whether the policy 
limit is reached. This is in line with the terms of the policy. 
As I said, I can see why Miss R might think Amtrust caused her to lose the use of her policy. 
But its also worth noting that the cover was only valid for five years from the date Miss R 
bought the furniture. She provided the sales invoice showing the date as October 2016. Miss 
R made her claims in January and March 2021 for incidents which happened between 
August 2020 and December 2020. Even if the seven claims she made during that time didnt 
use up the full policy balance, cover would have stopped anyway just a matter of months 
after she made the claims, and likely before the furniture was replaced. As it stands, 
because Amtrust offered to replace the furniture, the policy would end for those items.
So, Miss R would benefit from replacement of two sofas and two chairs, with her 50% 
contribution to the undamaged chair, and likely in a new fabric of her choosing. Coming just 
months before the policy was due to end, and as the offer matches Miss Rs request for 
resolution of this part of her complaint, I dont think its fair to ask Amtrust to do any more 
than this. 
Delays
The evidence shows that Amtrust didnt progress the claim as quickly as it couldve done, so 
it agreed to pay the £200 compensation our investigator proposed. But Miss R asked for 
compensation for the loss of her policy balance and for the delays which caused her to lose 
the match of fabric. 
As Ive said, I havent seen anything which persuades me that Amtrust caused Miss R any 
loss for which it would need to indemnify her beyond the offers it already made. And she 
asked for a change of fabric anyway, meaning the loss of match became irrelevant. Some of 
the delays were due to Miss R choosing fabrics, but I agree that Amtrust caused some 
avoidable delays. I cant reasonably say the evidence shows that those delays led to any 
significant loss to Miss R, so Im satisfied that the proposed compensation of £200 is fair in 
the circumstances. 
Conclusion
In summary, Miss R had a policy with just over nine months left to run when she first made 
seven claims for damage to her sofas and chairs caused by separate incidents over a period 
of five months. Despite the policy not providing cover for multiple stains occurring over a period of time, Amtrust accepted Miss Rs claims and made a final offer to settle by replacing 
the damaged furniture and contributing 50% towards the undamaged chair, or cash settling.
I think its offer was fair and reasonable and I wont be asking it to do any more in respect of 
the claims. Miss R may wish to let Amtrust know which option she wants to accept if she 
hasnt already done so. 
However, Im satisfied that Amtrust caused some avoidable delays and for that I think its fair 
for Amtrust to pay £200 compensation by way of apology.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint and 
AmTrust Europe Limited must:
pay Miss R £200 compensation by way of apology for the avoidable delays and 
inconvenience caused when dealing with her claims.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman