DRN-3724594
The complaint
This complaint is about a new fixed interest rate Mr and Mrs A sought on their mortgage with 
The Mortgage Works UK Plc (TMW) in the spring of 2021 when their existing rate deal was 
approaching expiry. They believe their property was deliberately under-valued, forcing them 
to incur financial loss in the form of the cost of obtaining a new mortgage elsewhere, plus the 
higher mortgage payments that were due after the existing deal expired. 
What happened
The above summary is in my own words. The broad circumstances of this complaint are 
known to Mr and Mrs A and TMW. Im also aware that the investigator issued a detailed 
response to the complaint, which has been shared with both parties, and so I dont need to 
repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr and Mrs A being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TMW offers different interest rates to its customers, depending on what loan-to-value (LTV) 
band their mortgage falls into. It can do that; its a matter of commercial judgement and not 
something I should interfere with. 
With a new mortgage, it typically has a contemporaneous valuation from a suitably-qualified 
valuer to rely on. But for a new product on an existing mortgage, TMW (like most lenders) 
uses a desk valuation; that is, a figure arrived at by applying one or other of different tools 
(initially an internal algorithm or, if necessary, a recognised house price index) to the 
last-known actual valuation. 
Here, Mr and Mrs A claim that the tools TMW uses in such situations are fundamentally 
flawed; in effect, designed to produce under valuations. Theyve produced a great deal of 
evidence in support of their claim. However, thats not something I can assess in a decision 
on an individual complaint; it doesnt fall within my remit. Its a regulatory matter and 
Mr and Mrs A would need to raise their suspicions in this regard with the FCA. My role here 
is to decide if TMW treated Mr and Mrs A fairly, and if didnt, whether it must bear the 
responsibility of the costs they incurred in re-mortgaging elsewhere.
In Mr and Mrs As case, TMWs desk valuation produced a figure that was significantly lower 
than they believed their house was worth. When they complained, TMW did exactly what Id 
expect a reasonable lender to do in that situation; that was, to offer them the option of having 
a new contemporaneous valuation from a suitably-qualified valuer. Mr and Mrs A were 
expected to bear the cost of that valuation (£400) but thats entirely normal, and again, quite 
reasonable.
I cant know what the outcome of a new contemporaneous valuation would have been, but I 
note that the new contemporaneous valuation obtained by Mr and Mrs As new lender 
produced a figure closer to their expectation. It seems far from unreasonable therefore to 
conclude that if Mr and Mrs A had paid for the same exercise to be carried out by TMW, the 
likelihood is that a similar outcome may well have resulted.
I dont think it reasonable for Mr and Mrs A to say TMW forced them to incur the cost of 
arranging a new mortgage, or the higher repayments on the existing mortgage in the interim. 
They had the option of paying £400 to have a new valuation conducted on their home. 
Instead, they took the more expensive option of re-mortgaging, and paying the higher 
mortgage payments in the meantime. That was entirely their prerogative, but it was also their 
choice, and they must accept the consequences of that choice. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against The Mortgage Works UK 
Plc. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means 
Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman