DRN-3777581
The complaint
Mr W complained because HSBC UK Bank plc refused to refund him for a  transaction he 
said he didnt make.
What happened
At 00:47 am on 5 March 2022, there was a £1,005.05 debit to Mr Ws HSBC account. This 
was carried out using Mr Ws genuine card, and correct PIN.
Theres a conflict of evidence about when Mr W contacted HSBC. HSBC says he contacted 
it on 22 March. Mr W says he did so on 12 March, when he blocked his card, and that the 
next day HSBC replied saying he had to report the problem to a different department. He 
says that as he was on holiday, he did this when he returned on 22 March. 
Mr W told HSBC that hed been out on the evening of 4th / 5th March. He said he still had his 
card. He said hed checked his online banking on 11 March which was when hed noticed 
the transaction. He said no-one else had access to his card, and he hadnt written down his 
PIN or told anyone what it was. 
HSBC investigated but refused to reimburse Mr W, because the genuine card, and correct 
PIN, had been used. Mr W complained.
In HSBCs final response, it said that the genuine card had been used, with its unique chip. It 
explained that these had been introduced to combat fraud. It said that the machine searches 
the chip for the PIN, which is encoded, and if the PIN is correct the transaction is authorised. 
When the chip is read in this way, a permanent record is made.
HSBC also said that after the disputed transaction, Mr W had made undisputed contactless 
transactions and another chip and PIN transaction between 1:30 am and 6:41 am. HSBC 
pointed out that an unknown fraudster wouldnt have returned Mr Ws card without his 
knowledge, and said this cast doubt on the validity of his claim.
Mr W had also said to HSBC that it should have declined the transaction as it wasnt typical 
of his normal spend. HSBC replied that its fraud detection system worked on various rules, 
with a combination of fraud trends and spending patterns. The disputed transaction didnt 
match fraud trends at the time. HSBC also pointed out that previous usage wasnt always an 
indication of future usage. Mr W had also complained that the transaction had exceeded his 
formal overdraft facility, but HSBC said the terms and conditions of the account permitted 
HSBC to consider and, at its discretion, allow payments to go through even if these did 
exceed an overdraft limit.
Mr W wasnt satisfied and contacted this service.  He drew our attention to the fact that hed 
made other transactions that night in a different location to the location stated for the 
disputed transaction. Hed made two payments at an entertainment venue at 00:05 am, and 
another at 1:30 am. He said he couldnt have gone to the place stated for the disputed 00:47 
am transaction, and got back in time to do the 1:30am transaction. He also said that the 
record showed the transaction as £1,005.005, and the pence couldnt be right as it couldnt 
be half a penny. 
Mr W also said that he was a student and it would be unusual for him to spend £1,005.05 on 
his debit card, and HSBCs systems should have picked up and prevented the transaction. 
He said he wanted a refund, and interest.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said that he couldnt see how any 
unknown third party could have obtained Mr Ws PIN. Mr W had carried out genuine 
transactions after the disputed transaction, and it wasnt likely that a fraudster would have 
returned the card to Mr W. 
The investigator also said that Mr Ws mobile banking showed that hed logged onto his 
mobile banking app 19 times before reporting the disputed transaction. And in reply to Mr 
Ws comments about the location, the investigator said that the card reader used for the 
disputed transaction was a portable card reader system. This meant that the location 
recorded on Mr Ws statement was the merchants registered location. It wasnt necessarily 
the place where the transaction had happened.
Mr W wasnt satisfied. He said hed first reported the transaction to HSBC on 12 March. He 
said that although he accepted that the card reader used for the disputed transaction was a 
portable card reader, he still thought it was relevant that the merchant was located some 
distance away from where hed been. 
Mr W then said he thought what had happened was that on the evening of 4th/5th March, hed 
been presented with a card reader by an employee at the entertainment venue where hed 
been. He thought the employee had fraudulently put in £1,005.05 to the other merchant. He 
said hed never intended to enter into that transaction, and hadnt knowingly authorised it to 
be debited from his account. He said that even though his physical card was used and his 
PIN was input, that didnt mean hed intended to make the transaction.
Mr W also said that he hadnt been able to find out about the merchant, so he thought the 
payee didnt exist and was just established for the fraud. He said that he was a student, and 
as it was a payment to a new payee for a significant sum, HSBC should have flagged the 
transaction and checked it before paying.
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in March 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, HSBC) must show the transaction 
was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Ive seen the computer evidence 
which shows Mr Ws genuine debit card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the 
disputed payment was authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Who authorised the transaction?
The genuine card and correct PIN were used for the disputed transaction. As Ive set out 
above, HSBCs final response explained in detail that the card had an integrated microchip 
and what this meant for the security of the card. HSBC is correct when it says that there has 
never been any known incident of the genuine chip within a card being copied. 
Mr W still had his card, and used it for undisputed transactions before and after the disputed 
one. This means that any fraudster whod stolen Mr Ws card would have had to steal it, use 
it, and return it without Mr W knowing. And its not typical fraudster behaviour to try to return 
a card. Thered be no benefit to them in doing so, and it would increase the risk of being 
found out.
Even if a fraudster had stolen and returned the card, that doesnt explain how any third party 
would have known Mr Ws PIN. Mr W said he hadnt disclosed this or written it down  and 
there are 10,000 possible combinations of a four digit PIN.
So I cant see that its likely that anyone other than Mr W, or someone to whom he gave the 
card and PIN, could have carried out this transaction.
After receiving our investigators view, Mr W said that what had happened was that an 
employee of the entertainment venue had given him the portable reader on which 
£1,005.005 had been entered. 
First, this is different from what Mr W told either HSBC, or this service when he first 
complained. Im not persuaded by this new version of events, when its different from his 
earlier accounts. I also dont think its at all likely that, having reported the transaction in 
March, hed suddenly remember some months later what really happened.
Secondly, this also doesnt explain why Mr W would have keyed in his PIN if the 
entertainment venue employee gave him a £1,005.005 transaction to authorise, to a 
completely different merchant. Mr W hasnt suggested any reason why hed have done that. 
He hasnt reported any details of what he now says happened  such as what the employee 
said it was for, or how the employee persuaded Mr W to provide his card and key in his PIN. 
By providing his genuine card and keying in his PIN, Mr W was authorising the transaction. 
And if he gave his card to someone else and told them his PIN, that still counts as Mr W 
authorising the transaction.
Mr W has argued that the merchant to which the payment was made was at a distance from 
the entertainment venue. Hes accepted that the type of card terminal was portable  in other 
words, that he didnt have to be at the merchants premises. Its common for a merchants 
name and premises to be located in a different place from where the customer is. So this 
doesnt persuade me that Mr W didnt authorise the transaction. 
As Ive set out above, theres disagreement about how long it took for Mr W to report the 5 
March disputed transaction as unrecognised. Mr W says he reported it on 12 March, but as 
he was on holiday he didnt follow up HSBCs 13 March instruction to report it to a different 
department. So he didnt do that until 22 March. HSBCs version is that it received the 
dispute on 22 March. But if I accept Mr Ws version, I still find it surprising that it took him a 
week to report it initially  and then he didnt pursue it till he got back from holiday. I think 
anyone who knew by 12 March that over £1,000 had been taken from their account, and genuinely hadnt authorised it, would have contacted HSBC from holiday rather than wait till 
22 March he was back.  
Finally:
- Mr W also said the transaction couldnt be right because it was recorded as 
£1,005.005 and the pence couldnt be right. Ive seen Mr Ws statement and the 
amount debited was £1,005.00.  
- Mr W says that HSBC should have prevented the transaction going through, because 
he was a student and because it was a payment to a new payee for a significant 
sum. As HSBC explained to Mr W, it didnt decline the disputed transaction because 
it didnt match fraud trends at that time. Nor does the fact that it took Mr W further 
into overdraft, and into unauthorised overdraft mean that it should have been 
blocked, because HSBC can at its discretion allow such transactions. 
For all these reasons, I consider its more likely than not that Mr W authorised the disputed 
transaction himself, either personally or by giving someone else his genuine card and PIN 
information. So I dont require HSBC to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman