DRN-3197993
The complaint
Mrs M says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. Mrs M already had a significant 
amount of debt when she took the loans from Morses. So, she couldnt easily manage 
the loan repayments. She thinks that Morses should have found out about this and not 
lent to her.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be partially upheld. Morses disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mrs Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision. 
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Mrs M between 
May 2016 and January 2018.
loan no. date takenloan 
amountweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 13/05/2016 £100 20 30/06/2016
2 10/08/2016 £200 20 02/03/2017
3 13/04/2017 £100 20 04/07/2017
4 04/07/2017 £200 33 08/12/2017
5 19/01/2018 £250 33 24/08/2018
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Morses had irresponsibly lent 
loans 1 to 4. But he did think that it was likely that Mrs M was reliant on the lending by loan 5. 
And so Morses shouldnt have approved this loan.
Morses didnt agree with what the adjudicator said. It didnt think that five loans in 16 months 
(taking account the breaks in lending) was excessive. The loans looked affordable for Mrs M and 
her income had risen when she took the later loans. Mrs M didnt have anything to add to what 
the adjudicator said.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Im intending not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ive explained why below.
Ive seen a record of the information Mrs M provided when she completed her loan applications. 
Mrs M said she had a weekly income of around £250 for the first four loans and around £425 for 
loan 5. She had regular weekly outgoings of between under £100 to around
£140. So, it would have been reasonable for Morses to think that these loans were 
affordable for Mrs M.
But by loan 4 Mrs M had been using this type of lending for over a year. She had taken four 
loans and there had only been small breaks in the lending.
So, I think Morses couldve realised at that time that Mrs M may have some longer-term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. 
Morses shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about Mrs Ms true 
financial situation. So, I think its checks shouldve gone further than they did at this point.
But Mrs M hasnt provided any information to show me what Morses wouldve likely seen if it had 
made better checks. So, I cant say for certain that it wouldve seen loans 4 and 5 werent 
affordable for her, or that it shouldnt have lent for any other reason.
And I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Mrs M mightve been having when loans 4 and 5 were granted. Or anything 
that wouldve prompted it to investigate Mrs Ms circumstances further. So, I think it was 
reasonable for Morses to rely on the information it obtained.
Our adjudicator said that the lending pattern itself showed that Mrs M was struggling financially 
by loan 5. And that she was likely to be reliant on the lending. But the repayments seem 
reasonable and the loan amounts didnt vary by much. Mrs Ms income had increased at this 
point. And looking at the account statements Morses has provided it seems that Mrs M wasnt 
having any obvious problems making her repayments.
I agree that 16 months is a reasonably long time to be using high cost credit. But taking 
everything else into consideration I dont think this means the lending was unsustainable in this 
case. So, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mrs M was reliant on this lending and it wasnt 
causing her significant problems when Morses approved the loans.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 1 to 5 were 
likely to be proportionate. And I think its decisions to lend for loans 1 to 5 were reasonable. Im not intending to uphold Mrs Ms complaint about them.
Morses, and Mrs M, received my provisional decision. And no one had anything to add after 
theyd seen it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses and Mrs M didnt raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision. So, 
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons. I wont add 
anything to what I said earlier as no one has raised any further issues. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman