DRN-3102174
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages has been
writing to them to say that payments to their unsecured loan were late, and recording late 
payments on their credit files, although payments were made.
What happened
(The early actions on Mr and Mrs Ws loan were taken by the business managing the loan
before it was passed to Topaz. But for simplicity, Ill refer to Topaz throughout.)
Mr and Mrs W said that they have been in a debt management plan, supported by a debt
management charity, for the last five years. This plan includes a payment arrangement with
the unsecured element of lending from Topaz. But they said that recently they started to
receive letters saying that their payments had been missed. And they started to get missed
payment markers on their credit files at the same time.
Mr and Mrs W said that when they complained, Topaz said that this was a systems problem,
and shouldnt be happening. But the complaint response they received didnt fix the problem.
Mr and Mrs W said they wanted the letters to stop. And they wanted the credit reporting to
stop saying payments had been missed. They also wanted previous entries to be updated.
Topaz said when Mr and Mrs W first entered into a payment plan, their loan account was
actually in credit. The company managing the loan previously had paid some money back
onto the loan. (Topaz didnt explain why this had happened.) So when they first started
making reduced payments, they werent in arrears. But Topaz said that initial credit had
been used up, and the loan was now in arrears. Thats why reporting to the credit reference
agencies (CRAs) had changed.
Topaz said it had investigated their complaint carefully, and it didnt think it had done
anything wrong.
Our investigator said he didnt think Topaz had actually looked at what Mr and Mrs W were
complaining about. He said he hadnt seen any evidence showing that Mr and Mrs W had
been late with or missed any of the payments that Topaz had agreed to accept. So our
investigator thought Topaz should stop sending late or missed payment letters, and amend
both Mr W and Mrs Ws credit files. It should also pay compensation.
Topaz wrote again, setting out the different agreements it had reached with Mr and Mrs W to
accept lower payments, and the payments it had received. It still didnt think it had done
anything wrong. Our investigator asked it to explain why Mr and Mrs W had received a
missed payment letter on 8 September 2020.
Topaz said that the letter, saying Mr and Mrs Ws arrangement to pay had been broken
because a payment was missed, was sent because payments were showing as late. When
the payment arrangement was first set up, payments were due on the first of the month. But
payments were being made around the end of the first week or into the second week of each
month. So it looked like payments were coming in late each month.
Topaz said that the due date had been reset in July 2020, and payments now showed as
due on the 11th of each month. But Topaz said that it only reports to CRAs at the end of each
month, so it suggested that our service should ask the relevant agency when the four missed
payments were from.
Our investigator still thought this complaint should be upheld. He set out what he understood
the history of Mr and Mrs Ws payments to be, from the date when they first entered into a
payment arrangement.
Our investigator said, although payments had been due on the first of the month, Mr and Mrs 
W had usually paid later than this. This meant a number of their payments had been late, 
until the payment date was reset in July 2020, when Mrs W called Topaz about the letters.
Our investigator said that Mr and Mrs W had complained about letters saying they had
missed a payment, and about what was on their credit files. He said hed only seen one
letter, dated 8 September 2020, but because Mr and Mrs W had called Topaz about a similar
letter in July 2020, he thought others were sent.
Our investigator thought it wouldve been reasonable for Topaz to send letters when Mr and
Mrs Ws payment was due on the first of the month, but not being made until later each
month. He didnt think that Topaz shouldve sent the letter of 8 September 2020, because it
had changed the payment date to the 11th a couple of months earlier. He thought this was a
mistake, that Topaz should pay compensation for.
Our investigator said the screenshot of the credit file that Mr and Mrs W had sent us, showed 
four late payments for Topaz. It wasnt detailed enough for him to reach conclusions. But 
Topaz had supplied a record of its reporting. The account status was shown as DM between 
July 2016 and October 2019. From November 2019 onwards the account status alternates 
between OK and AR  which our investigator assumed indicated arrears.
Our investigator said that the reporting didnt match the payments he could see. Between the
period of May 2020 and April 2021 the credit reporting Topaz showed us suggested there
were six months of arrears. And our investigator said he didnt know why Topaz had
changed the reporting from showing a debt management plan to showing arrears, when Mr
and Mrs W are still on a debt management plan with Topaz.
Our investigator said that Topaz should stop sending missed or late payment letters if the
payments werent missed or late, it should review data shared with CRAs and correct errors
(but he didnt say what those errors were). And he said it should pay £150 in compensation.
Topaz didnt agree. It said that the amount of arrears is reported, whenever the arrears are
equal to one full monthly payment or more, regardless of whether an arrangement or debt
management plan is in place. If there is an arrangement or debt management plan in place,
that would also be reported. Arrears were increasing between May 2020 and April 2021.
Topaz said it had a duty to report a true reflection of the account, which is what it felt it had 
done. Topaz said it wanted to know which months our investigator thought were wrongly
reported, and why. And Topaz said that it thought a payment of £50 would be more
reasonable for the letter it sent in error in September 2020.Because Topaz didnt agree, this complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Topaz has sent us details of how it has reported Mr and Mrs Ws monthly payments 
up to April 2021. I dont think that this reporting is a fair and reasonable reflection of 
the position Mr and Mrs W were in. I will therefore be suggesting a number changes 
to that, unless I receive further evidence to change my mind, I think Topaz should 
make, running up until April 2021 inclusive.
I hope that Topaz will also amend its reporting going forward. But I cant instruct 
Topaz to do that here, without affecting Mr and Mrs Ws ability to complain about this 
in future. So, if Topazs reporting after this date isnt consistent with my eventual 
decision in this case, then Mr and Mrs W can ask our service to look into this too.
Firstly, Id like to set out what Topaz is responsible for, is what it sends to the CRAs. 
Those CRAs may then set out this information in different ways, but thats not 
Topazs responsibility. So Ill focus on the records Topaz sent us, showing what it 
had told CRAs.
Those records show that Topaz has recorded arrears on Mr and Mrs Ws credit files, 
but not in the way our investigator thought. Ill set out below what has happened, and 
then Ill say what changes that I think, on the evidence Ive seen so far, are needed.
I dont think that AR on Mr and Mrs Ws credit files indicates arrears. Topaz has told 
us it indicates an arrangement to pay. And Topaz changed from reporting Mr and Mrs 
W as in a debt management plan (DM) to being in an arrangement to pay (AR) at 
the end of 2019. It hasnt explained why it did this.
Mr and Mrs Ws debt management plan is still in place. When Mr and Mrs W make 
their agreed payment, under their debt management plan, and do so on time, then 
unless Topaz can explain otherwise, I think that their credit reporting from Topaz 
should show DM. Thats a true reflection of the position of this account.
So I think Topaz should amend the entries it has shown us, for December 2019, then 
from February 2020 to December 2020 inclusive, and then again from February 2021 
to April 2021 inclusive, from AR to DM, to reflect this position.
Topaz has also started to show Mr and Mrs Ws account in arrears, as of May 2020. 
Arrears are indicated by a number next to the month. Those reached six, in 
December 2020, and the account continued to report 6 until April 2021. Topaz also 
shows BB  which I understand reflects an account that has reached three to six 
months of arrears  on January 2021.
I dont think that these marks on Mr and Mrs Ws credit reporting reflects how they 
are managing their payments under the debt management plan. I would expect 
arrears like this to show when someone first gets behind with their payments, and a 
business is moving towards defaulting a debt. But in this case, that happened a long 
time ago  in late 2015. I can see that arrears were reported then. And Topaz agreed 
a debt management plan with Mr and Mrs W in early 2016. So if the account was 
going to default, it should have done so around that time.It would not be fair for Topaz to default this account now  a recent default will have 
much more of an impact on Mr and Mrs Ws credit files. And it wouldnt be fair for 
arrears to suddenly appear on the debt, after such a long time. So I think Topaz must 
remove the arrears markers which have reported onto Mr and Mrs Ws credit files 
between May 2020 and April 2021, and the BB marker I can see on January 2021.
Its not clear to me why this debt didnt default in late 2015, or early 2015, when I can 
see that Topaz was reporting that Mr and Mrs W were in substantial arrears. I 
wouldnt usually expect a debt management plan to prevent a default. In fact, quite 
the opposite.
I do think it would have been fair for Topaz to default this account in late 2015 or 
early 2016. Because leaving this account without any default date may cause future 
problems, Topaz may now default Mr and Mrs Ws debt if it wishes to do so (and 
didnt do so in 2015 or 2016). But it cannot date this default any more recently than 
January 2016, when Mr and Mrs Ws debt first reached six months of arrears.
Mr and Mrs W were concerned their credit files were also reporting late payments. 
But I think its most likely that what those files are doing is reflecting how many 
months of contractual payments Topaz considered Mr and Mrs W to have missed on 
their loan. So, in other words, this is a note of how far in arrears Mr and Mrs W are, 
not how many months they have made their payment a little after the due date.
Mr and Mrs W showed us a credit file screenshot showing four late payments in early
November 2020. In October 2020 (which is likely to be what I can see on the credit 
file) Topaz reported that Mr and Mrs W were four months in arrears. Thats what I 
think Topaz should remove.
Ill now look at the letters sent to Mr and Mrs W. Topaz suggested that these letters 
were sent because Mr and Mrs W werent paying on time each month. But Ive 
reached a different conclusion.
I think its most likely that Topaz wrote to Mr and Mrs W in July 2020 about missed 
payments, because Mrs W called Topaz then to discuss this. And it seems as if Mr 
and Mrs Ws payments were regularly reaching Topaz late at this time  they were 
expected at the start of the month, and werent received until about a week later.
But I dont think this monthly payment date is likely to have been the cause of the 
problem, or the letters that were sent at the time. The September letter Mr and Mrs W 
showed us was sent after this. And it doesnt ask Mr and Mrs W to pay earlier in the 
month. It tells them payments have been missed. So I think this was also likely to be 
a result of the arrears which Topaz was starting to report on their account.
Topaz mentioned the issue of the initial credit made onto Mr and Mrs Ws account 
when they first entered into a debt management plan, and the slow erosion of this 
over time, on the July 2020 call, as a possible explanation of why they had arrears 
showing now. Mrs W did, quite reasonably, point out that it wasnt her fault that this 
had been done, and nothing fundamental had changed since 2016, when they 
entered into the debt management arrangement.
Topaz did then indicate on this call that changing the payment due date would solve 
this issue of letters being issued, which it doesnt appear to have done. Ive explained 
that I think this is because the letters were part of the problem with reporting of 
arrears to Mr and Mrs Ws credit files.I think that it should have been clear to Topaz that something had gone wrong, and 
that what was happening now with arrears suddenly reporting on a loan over four 
years after a debt management plan was agreed, wasnt fair. So I think this call, 
between Mrs W and Topaz, and the subsequent complaint response, represented a 
missed opportunity to resolve this problem. And I think that this means the mistake 
Topaz has made here has affected Mr and Mrs Ws credit files much longer than was 
necessary. Because of that, I think Topaz should pay more compensation than our 
investigator suggested. I think that a payment of £300, being £150 for each affected 
credit file, would provide part of a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs W replied to thank me, and to say they had nothing further to add.
Topaz wrote to confirm it agreed to my provisional decision. It said it would amend the credit 
files for December 2019, then from February 2020 to December 2020 inclusive, and then 
again from February 2021 to April 2021 inclusive, from AR to DM. And it would pay Mr and 
Mrs W £300.
Topaz said that its credit file amendments team had confirmed the current guidelines say it 
should be reporting defaults on unsecured accounts when the account is in shortfall or on 
any Bankruptcy or IVA date. It said that it could amend Mr and Mrs Ws record as I had 
suggested, but it would not apply a default due to the arrears status on an account.
I havent changed my mind about the appropriate outcome in this case. So I do still think 
Topaz should also remove from Mr and Mrs Ws credit files, the arrears it has reported 
recently, as set out in my provisional decision above. Its for Topaz to decide, within the 
requirements of that decision, if it wishes to apply a default. I note it doesnt intend to do so. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages must amend 
Mr and Mrs Ws credit files, as set out above, and to pay Mr and Mrs W £300 in 
compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman