DRN-4442020
The complaint
Mr U complains to StoneX Financial Ltd  trading as City Index  about charges applied to 
his trading account which werent disclosed in line with the regulators requirements and 
asks for them to be refunded.
 
What happened
Mr U has a trading account with StoneX following their purchase of business from his former 
trading platform. In October 2020, he contacted City Index after feeling concerned about 
charges being applied to his account. City Index provided him with a monthly statement to 
summarise the position, but Mr U followed up to query how theyd complied with some of the 
relevant regulations when concerned with disclosing costs and charges before the event (ex-
ante) and after the event (ex-post). 
City Index explained they provided ex-ante details within key information documents on their 
website, and ex-post details within statements. Mr U wasnt happy with this and made a 
complaint. He said, in summary:
Hed checked the key information documents but couldnt see they mentioned 
overnight financing costs  the examples were intraday trades. 
The packaged retail and insurance based product regulation (PRIIP) requirements 
were different to what was required under the Markets in Financial Instruments 
Directive 2014 (MiFID II) and its supplementing directive  Directive 2014/65/EU and 
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/565. 
He also hadnt consented to the provision of information by website  something that 
was in breach of articles 3(2) and 46(3).
He realised the monthly statements had disclosed overnight financing costs, but the 
subject line of the email for monthly statements was the same as that of the daily 
statements, and the latter didnt disclose overnight financing costs  hed stopped 
reviewing these as they contained information he already knew. He gave examples 
of subject lines in emails which simply said, Your Statement [number]. 
Like most traders, he mainly relied on the trading app and thought charges should be 
disclosed on there  they werent, so he felt they were hidden.
The only reason he had an account with City Index was because theyd taken over 
from his previous provider  as the terms were potentially very different, there should 
have been a clear and transparent communication of the new terms.
City Index looked into Mr Us concerns but didnt agree theyd fallen short of what was 
expected. They said, in summary:
They agreed they were required to present clients with ex-ante and ex-post costs and 
charges in a clear, fair and non-misleading manner. 
They pointed to a pricing and fees document under the spread betting and CFD 
section on their website  this explained what overnight financing charges were, how 
they were worked out  and they provided a link to where the charges were 
displayed. 
They pointed to section nine within their terms and conditions that detailed their 
charges and noted that they might charge financing fees. 
They said the key information documents for the markets Mr U was trading included 
a table with ex-ante costs. 
They noted that the European Markets and Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) 
required costs to be presented in a standalone document or within a document with 
wider context providing there was sufficient prominence. They thought what theyd 
provided was sufficient.
They considered articles 24 and 50 and thought the ex-post costs and charges were 
clearly itemised within monthly statements as well as being available on the trading 
platform. 
Mr U remained unhappy and asked for our help. He added, in summary:
City Index hadnt communicated their overnight financing costs in a clear, fair and not 
misleading manner, nor in a regulatory compliant manner.
Overnight financing costs in September 2020 alone were £121  had a retail client 
been informed of this it wouldnt be logical for them to trade. 
The trading app reports profit and loss but omits charges. 
The generic comment on City Indexs website that says financing costs may be 
charged isnt compliant with regulatory obligations  these require specific cost and 
charge disclosures.
He felt over £1,000 had been unfairly charged and asked for these fees, along with 
those on open positions, to be refunded as he was not aware of them when placing 
his trades. 
The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators, but he didnt agree City Index had 
done anything wrong. He said, in summary:
Relevant here was the FCAs conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) at 6.1ZA.
At section nine, City Indexs terms provided for the inclusion of certain fees which 
could be found on their website or by calling them.
Though the account had moved over from another investment platform, City Indexs 
terms applied here. 
The website had a page focused on pricing and charges, this included an example of 
how overnight fees would be calculated. 
From what hed seen, City Index had given Mr U enough information up front about 
what charges hed incur, and that theyd detailed actual charges on statements 
thereafter. 
Mr U didnt agree. He said COBS 6.1ZA.14 required ex-ante and ex-post cost and charges 
schedules  he didnt think City Indexs high level terms and conditions were sufficient. He 
also pointed to COBS 6.1ZA.19 that said hed have had to consent to information being 
provided on a website  he hadnt, so this was another example of City Index not meeting 
the requirements. Mr U explained the relevance of his employment to the subject of the 
complaint, and ultimately didnt feel City Index had acted within the spirit of the regulations. Our investigator thought at section two, City Indexs terms made clear that information to do 
with costs would be provided on their website or trading platform and that COBS 6.1ZA.19 
permitted this. And having reconsidered COBS 6.1ZA.14, our investigator thought itd been 
complied with. Lastly, he said that even if Mr U hadnt initially been aware of the charges, he 
will have seen them on his statements so it wouldnt be fair to ask City Index to refund them 
now. 
Mr U remained of the view that City Index had failed to comply with the requirements and 
this failing has cost him a lot of money. He wasnt persuaded our investigator had 
understood the requirements and asked for an ombudsmans review to reconsider this point 
and the importance it has for retail clients. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to make a finding as to whether City Index have treated Mr U fairly and 
reasonably. In deciding this, I take into account relevant evidence, law, rules and guidance  
including the FCAs conduct of business sourcebook Mr U has referred to along with MiFID II 
and its supplementing directive. Having done so, and though appreciating this will disappoint 
Mr U, I agree with our investigator for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
In the course of making his complaint, Mr U has cited a number of different rules he thinks 
City Index have failed to adhere to. Hes told us about his relevant profession too, so I 
appreciate he is very familiar with the subject matter of his complaint and the relevant 
practices of other financial institutions. I wont quote each rule here, not least because Mr U 
is familiar with them but also given their length, but I will summarise some of their intentions 
and confirm I have considered the version in force at the time. 
Generally speaking, the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) sets the rules firms have 
to follow when they are carrying out investment services, as City Index were for Mr U here. 
These have brought about the MiFID II requirements Mr U points to  notably, COBS 6.1ZA 
provided Information about the firm and compensation information (MiFID and insurance 
distribution provisions). Relevant here, the handbook required City Index to be clear Mr U 
about charges hed incur trading with them in advance, as well as to report on what hed 
been charged afterwards. 
Firstly I will say that it doesnt appear there is any concern around the rationale or reasons 
for why financing is charged when holding CFD positions overnight  whether that be for the 
implication of borrowing for long positions or lending for short positions. The dispute is 
instead whether these charges were disclosed in line with the requirements, and therefore 
whether or not they have been fairly applied on Mr Us account. 
The relationship between Mr U and City Index was governed by the terms and conditions 
and associated documents. Here, City Index have shared their general terms and pricing 
and fees document in force at the time. 
Within the general terms at 9, City Index explained theyd inform Mr U about all costs and 
charges and that the way these worked would depend on the market in question  for 
example, they might earn profit through spreads, charge commission, impose financing fees 
or charge premiums. They said further information was on their website or investors could 
call to ask about it. Im satisfied that including the cost information on the website was 
sufficient given Mr U agreed to City Indexs terms which, at 2.2, said he consented to information about costs and charges being shared either by email, on their website or on 
their trading platform. So I dont agree Mr Us consent in line with article 3 wasnt sought.
Ive also reviewed City Indexs pricing and fees sheet in force at the time  this document 
referred to overnight financing and explained what the charges were, before going on to 
explain how theyd be calculated. It said, in part: 
Overnight Financing
What are financing charges?
Overnight financing charges may be applied to positions that have no set expiry date, 
for example spot FX trades. As with our low commissions and tight spreads, these 
charges are competitive in order to keep your trading costs low. Under normal 
circumstances, long positions will incur a small charge whilst short positions will be 
credited overnight financing, although this varies according to the transaction type. 
You are charged overnight financing on the total value of your positions, and 
competitive rates are applied across all of our markets to ensure financing costs are 
kept to a minimum.
 
And then moved on to set out the formulas and methodology for calculating financing on 
different types of position. City Index then said, Please review the market information sheets 
in the Advantage Trader and MetaTrader platforms for details on financing charges for each 
market. and theyve shared a screenshot of how this was displayed on their platform where 
daily rates were illustrated  for example, short £0.14 and long -£0.55. 
Ive also considered an example of a key information document which City Index referred to 
in their final response letter. This explained that the product  the example being one 
relevant to Mr U, CFD on a Commodity  included a section titled What are the costs? 
followed by a table to show the different types of cost categories and their meanings. Next to 
Ongoing costs and Daily holding cost it said A fee is charged to your account for every 
night that your position is held. This means the longer you hold a position, the more it costs. 
So from everything Ive seen, City Index did tell Mr U about the charges hed incur, before he 
incurred them. 
In terms of the disclosure of costs after the event, Ive seen examples of two of Mr Us 
monthly statements from around the time  September and October 2020. Under the subtitle 
Financial Activity both noted any commission charges before another subheading Type: 
Financing. Both statements then itemised over five pages of financing fees. The impact of 
these fees was totalled on each last page and we can see Mr U paid £121.45 in September 
and £107.56 in October. This was under the Detailed Account subtitle which summarised 
things like Mr Us opening balance, closing balance, margin requirement and profit and loss. 
So I think this was enough for Mr U to appreciate the impact that fees and charges in the 
round had on his positions and the disclosure was in line with, and in the spirit of, the 
regulations. 
Though I appreciate Mr U stopped checking his monthly statements  given the subject line 
of the email was similar to those he received each day which contained less information  I 
dont think this means City Index fell short of the requirements. Instead, from what I have 
seen, City Index did tell Mr U about the charges hed paid. My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman