DRN-2025032
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Miss I says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Miss I took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in January 2002 whilst shopping in the store. The policy covered her in case she 
was off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly and became unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss I disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.. 
Miss I told us that she had no need for the policy as she had other ways to pay her store 
card. She told us that if the person who filled in the application form had explained things 
better then she wouldnt have taken the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Is case.
Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
It isnt reasonable to expect Miss I to remember exactly what was discussed when she took 
out PPI so long ago. This means that what she says isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold this complaint just based on the way Miss I says she was sold PPI. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. 
On her store card application, Miss I has signed in the PPI part of the form, next to where it 
says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account CoverPlease debit my Account 
with the relevant monthly premium until further notice. 
I've taken into account that Miss I told us that she just signed the form where the store 
assistant had indicated. And I dont know what (if anything) mightve been said about the PPI. 
But I think Miss I wouldve been able to see on this form that it was up to her to say if she 
wanted to have PPI added on. 
Miss I signed the completed application next to where it says: Sign it only if you want to be 
legally bound by its terms. So I think its reasonable to expect Miss I wouldve first read through 
anything she was asked to sign. And it seems to me that by signing the form she was indicating 
that she agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, she has 
forgotten this now. 
On balance I think AXA made Miss I aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that she chose to take it. 
As the policy was sold in a store I dont think its likely that AXA personally recommended PPI 
to Miss I. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the policy was suitable for Miss I. But it 
still needed to make sure it gave Miss I enough clear information for her to decide if the policy 
was right for her, taking into account her personal circumstances.
And, if that didnt happen, I need to consider if Miss I wouldve acted differently, and not 
bought the policy, if better information had been provided. 
Miss I was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay through her 
employer. But this policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Miss I was off work sick or 
disabled. So it couldve paid out for longer than Miss I was entitled to sick pay through work 
 and cleared her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
This means the PPI offered Miss I better protection than she couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Miss I with a 
useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled.
This benefit was also available to Miss I in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely  and the policy wouldve paid out on top 
of any redundancy pay, giving Miss I some extra financial security in those circumstances. 
Miss I told us she had no other way to pay her monthly card repayments if she wasnt 
working. 
For all these reasons, I think the policy offered Miss I useful benefits in her particular 
situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like any of the main policy 
limitations or exclusions wouldve affected Miss I. So I dont think its likely that having more 
information about these policy terms wouldve led her to change her mind about taking out 
the PPI.
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Miss I clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when 
she didnt have to. And it looks like she was happy to pay for it at the time as she agreed to 
pay the monthly premium when she filled in the application form. 
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Miss I, I think it unlikely she wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. 
So I dont find that Miss I has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman