DRN-4113677
The complaint
Miss W complained because Metro Bank PLC refused to refund her for transactions which 
she said her then-boyfriend had made.
What happened
On the night of 7/8 September 2022, Miss W was at home with her boyfriend, who shed 
been with for two years. She made an online banking payment for a course, and at the time 
she didnt realise that her boyfriend, who was taller, was looking over her shoulder to see her 
passcode for her online banking.
When Miss W woke up around 8am, she went onto her online banking to transfer some 
money from her savings account. She noticed that money had been stolen from her account 
overnight, and transferred to accounts she didnt recognise. Miss W confronted her 
boyfriend, because no-one else had access to her devices apart from him. She rang Metro, 
and asked it to reverse the outward payments. Metro told her this wasnt possible, because 
some payments take 24 hours to leave an account. Metros adviser told her there was 
nothing he could do.
Miss Ws boyfriend had taken her phone when she was asleep. Hed then transferred 
£10,000 from her savings account to her current account, and had then carried out 
payments from her current account. Four faster payments had been made in this way, 
totalling £7,500. 
Miss W rang again, and also went to a Metro branch and to the police.
In the call between Miss W and the fraud team on the morning of 8 September, Metro said 
that its security systems had flagged and blocked two of the faster payments: one for £2,500 
and one for £500. Another £2,500 payment didnt go through to the recipient account. This 
left an outstanding amount of £2,000, which had been paid out from Miss Ws account. It had 
gone to the same payee as the £500 which had been blocked. 
Metro told Miss W that Metro expected customers to have a certain level of security on their 
phone, so it wouldnt be able to refund Miss W.  It said that to log in, the person carrying out 
the payments would have needed Miss Ws 12 digit customer number, three digits from her 
security number, and three characters from her password.
Miss W complained. She set out what had happened, and said that it wasnt correct that all 
this information would have been needed. She said that when she usually sent money, the 
app only asked for the passcode, and then sent her a one-time passcode when entering a 
new payee, which was sent as a text to her mobile.
In its final response letter, Metro told Miss W that it couldnt refund her for the lost £2,000 
because the payments had been made using the correct security information. Metro again 
said that log in would have needed the 12 digit customer number, three digits from her 
security number, and three characters from her password. Metro pointed out that the mobile 
used had been consistently used for genuine payments, and a one-time passcode, sent to 
the mobile, was required before the new payees could be set up. It said that as Miss W knew 
who had made the payments, it was a police matter.
Miss W didnt agree, and contacted this service.
Our investigator upheld Miss Ws complaint. He said that Metro should have raised a fraud 
case when Miss W had first phoned, and hadnt done so. This meant that Metros response 
to the fraud report was delayed. The investigator also said that Metro, and Miss W, had 
different versions of what was needed to set up a new payee. Metro hadnt provided 
evidence of what security had been passed to set up the new payees on the app, but had 
said there were different requirements according to whether a new payment was set up 
using mobile or online banking. Miss Ws boyfriend had accessed her app, and set up new 
payees and made the payments without her authority, after learning her eight digit PIN. The 
investigator said Metro should refund the disputed £2,000, with 8% simple interest from 8 
September 2022 to the date of payment.
Metro didnt agree. It said:
- its concern was when does the customer take any responsibility for keeping their 
account secure?  This was a requirement under the terms and conditions; 
- access to the mobile, and then to the Metro app on the mobile which needed security 
depending on the customers setup. Then a one-time passcode would have been 
sent to the mobile;
- Metro believed that either Miss W had colluded or hadnt kept her security details 
safely;
- Metro said that moving money from one of Miss Ws accounts to the other didnt raise 
an alarm with its detection systems. It said that its systems couldnt prevent and 
question all payments leaving a customers account; 
- Metro said that if Miss W believed that her boyfriend had seen her security details, 
shed been grossly negligent as shed failed to conceal the details.
Metro asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations and authorisation
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations here are 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer 
didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. The 
regulations also say that account holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under 
certain circumstances  for example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an 
extent that it can be termed gross negligence.
I note that Metro and Miss W disagree about exactly what would have been needed to 
authenticate the payments. But it doesnt make any difference whether it would just have 
needed the passcode, or other information as well. Thats because the issues relate to Miss 
Ws boyfriend being able to discover whatever was needed by watching her carry out a 
genuine transaction, not to exactly how many pieces of information hed have needed. 
Miss W says she didnt authorise the four faster payments from her current account, nor the 
£10,000 transfer from her savings into her current account which enabled the payments to be made. Metro has suggested to this service that Miss W might have colluded in the 
payments, and Ive carefully considered this possibility. 
Ive listened to the phone call recordings which we have, though these dont include Miss 
Ws first call to Metro. Both sides agree that on that occasion she was told that payments 
would take 24 hours to go through, and the fraud team wasnt alerted. Having listened to the 
other calls, I consider its more likely than not that Miss W didnt collude, and that the 
transactions were, as she reported, genuinely carried out by her boyfriend without Miss Ws 
consent. Ive also borne in mind that Miss W reported the dispute quickly and was consistent 
throughout. She also pursued this consistently, including going to the branch, and reporting it 
to the police and Action Fraud. So I find that its more likely than not that the events 
happened as Miss W reported, and she wasnt acting fraudulently herself.
Gross negligence
Under the Regulations, a customer is liable for losses if theyve acted with gross negligence. 
Gross negligence isnt defined in the regulations, but Regulation 72 deals with the 
customers obligations in relation to security, and says that a payment service user must:
..take all reasonable steps to keep safe personalised security credentials relating to a 
payment instrument or and account information service.
There have been legal cases about what gross negligence is, and its been established 
that it is to a higher standard than the common law standard of negligence. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) says it is a very significant level and the judge in one of the key 
cases said that gross negligence isnt just actual appreciation of risk, but serious disregard of 
risk.
Its perfectly reasonable to complete transactions with other people in the vicinity  it 
happens at cashpoints, for instance. So someone seeing isnt enough to count as gross 
negligence. Here, Miss W didnt realise at the time that her boyfriend was watching and had 
seen and memorised her password, so there was no reason for her to think she should 
change it, or be concerned.  I also wouldnt expect her to feel it was necessary to hide her 
phone away at night from her then partner of two years, whom  at that time - she trusted. 
I recognised Metros concerns about when does the customer take any responsibility for 
keeping their account secure, which is required under the terms and conditions. But gross 
negligence is a high bar, and I dont consider that Miss W was grossly negligent in all the 
circumstances here. 
Did Metro act quickly enough, and should it have stopped the payments?
Metro provided poor service to Miss W when the first adviser failed to refer her first call to its 
fraud department. Metro hasnt provided us with this call, but it accepted that its adviser 
should have raised a fraud case at that point and didnt do so. This meant that Miss W had 
to ring again, and it lengthened the time when she was anxious about what to do. Ive also 
looked at whether it would have made any difference if Metro had acted correctly and 
referred Miss Ws situation to its fraud team when she first alerted them.  
I dont have the call or the time it was made, but as Miss Ws boyfriend carried out the 
transactions when she was asleep, her call would have made been some hours after the 
transactions had taken place. That wasnt Miss Ws fault, but faster payments go through 
within minutes, almost immediately. So even if Metros adviser had acted correctly, it would 
have been too late to stop the payments by then anyway.  Ive then looked at whether Metros systems should have blocked all the payments on 
security grounds before they were paid, on grounds that they were out of character for Miss 
Ws account. 
Looking at Miss Ws statements from January 2022, I find that the disputed transactions 
were out of character. Her spend was almost all by card payment, with a very occasional 
direct debit. I havent seen any other faster payments. Her card payment spend was 
generally under £40, with very occasional higher amounts eg £159 to a supermarket in April, 
and another payment for £352 in June. So payments which were faster payments, and for 
£500, £2,500 and £2,000, were very much out of character. 
Looking at transfers between accounts, Miss W did many transfers between her accounts. 
The amounts she transferred were typically higher than her card payment spend. The 
highest Ive seen was for just over £1,000, but this was still considerably less than the 
£10,000 transfer into her current account which was then almost emptied immediately. 
Fraudulent payments from an account are often preceded by a substantial transfer from a 
savings account into an account from which outgoing payments can be more easily made  
which is what happened here. So I think the large transfer into the account, followed by the 
large transfers out, should have triggered security alerts.
It looks inconsistent that Metros systems did flag and block two of the payments (and one 
failed or an unknown reason) - but its systems didnt flag and block the £2,000 payment. 
That payment was to the same recipient as the £500 payment which had been blocked. 
Banks dont provide details of their security systems, and algorithms are complicated. But I 
find it surprising that the system blocked a £500 payment to a beneficiary, but then let 
through a £2,000 payment to the same recipient. I consider that Metro should have flagged 
and blocked that payment too. And sending a one time passcode, when a suspect mobile 
transaction might well be under the control of a fraudster, is never going to be entirely 
satisfactory as verification.
Conclusions about the outstanding £2,000
So I consider that: 
- Its very unlikely that Miss W colluded with her then-boyfriend as Metro has 
suggested. I accept that she didnt know about the payments, and didnt authorise 
them. As a result, she was entitled to a refund.
- The circumstances under which Miss Ws then-partner obtained her security 
information, and her phone, are not sufficient to count as gross negligence. 
- Metro failed to keep Miss Ws money secure by not flagging and blocking all the 
disputed payments, which were out of character for her account. It did flag two of 
them, and I consider it should also have blocked the £2,000 payment until it could 
speak to Miss W in person (not just send a one-time passcode to the phone). It was 
to the same recipient as the £500 payment which had been properly blocked only a 
short time before  it was just for a larger amount. And there had also been an out of 
character large incoming transfer shortly before the large disputed payments.  
Taking into account all these factors, I order Metro to pay Miss W £2,000, plus interest at 8% 
simple from 8 September 2022 to the date of payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint. I order Metro Bank PLC to pay Miss W £2,000, plus interest at 8% simple from 8 September 
2022 to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman