DRN-3501635
The complaint
Miss T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) placed her account under review and 
restricted her access to it - causing her substantive distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
In late January 2021, Barclays reviewed Miss Ts account and decided to restrict her access. 
Miss T could access any wages or benefits but was told she had to go into branch with 
identification and some proof  like a wage slip  of the funds she wanted to withdraw. 
Following the completion of the review in early February 2021, the blocks were lifted on 
Miss Ts account. The debit card for the account wasnt unblocked for a further two days 
after Miss T told Barclays she still wasnt able to use it. 
Miss T complained about all of this. In its response, Barclays said it had acted in accordance 
with its terms and conditions when placing the account under review and it didnt need to 
explain why it had done so. Barclays added it had completed its review within a reasonable 
time. 
Barclays added that it had failed to unblock Miss Ts debit card on the same day it lifted all 
the other restrictions. As part of its apology for this, Barclays credited Miss Ts account with 
£75.  
Unhappy with Barclays response, Miss T referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the matter. In summary they said: 
- Barclays has ongoing regulatory obligations it must follow
- Barclays isnt obligated to provide any notice or explanation if it decides to review 
and block an account 
- Barclays have acted in line with its terms and conditions
- Barclays havent caused any undue delay when carrying out the review 
- Barclays has acted fairly by asking Miss T to go into branch with identification to 
withdraw any money  nor has it failed to consider any vulnerabilities 
- Barclays payment of £75 was fair for not unblocking the card two days before it 
should have 
Miss T said she was told she could ask friends or family for funds, and she had to break 
lockdown rules - which applied to her more stringently given her vocation - to go to a branch. 
She says she was told she could go to a food bank if needed. 
Our Investigator said they hadnt seen anything which showed Miss T had any vulnerabilities 
which prevented her from going into a branch. And Barclays hadnt asked her to break any 
COVID rules by doing so. They added that Barclays is expected to signpost its customers to 
relevant organisations which may provide help if its needed.
As Miss T remains unhappy, her complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ts complaint. I know this will disappoint her  so Ill explain 
why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Ive looked at Barclays reasons for reviewing Miss Ts account. Having done so Im satisfied 
Barclays has acted fairly by carrying out the review  and that it had genuine reasons for 
concern. Ive already said banks like Barclays have legal and regulatory obligations they 
must meet. I can also see Barclays has acted in line with the terms of the account. 
I am aware of no obligation under which Barclays must disclose its reasons. Nor am I aware 
of any such reason why I should do so. 
Next, Ive looked at whether Barclays has caused any avoidable delay. This is a key factor in 
this complaint given the impact, and substantive distress and inconvenience Miss T has told 
us she has suffered. 
Barclays review lasted no longer than ten working days. Im persuaded this wasnt an 
unreasonable time for it to carry out its review given the concerns it had. In reaching this 
conclusion, Ive considered Miss T's circumstances - which she told Barclays about. 
As soon as it finished its review, Barclays removed any blocks from Miss Ts account. 
Barclays accept it didnt unblock Miss Ts debit card until a further two days later  and that 
this was an error on its part. As way of an apology, Barclays paid Miss T £75.  Given this is a 
clear avoidable delay, I need to consider if £75 is fair compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience Miss T suffered.
Given Miss Ts other banking facilities were unblocked, Im satisfied this is fair compensation 
 so I wont be asking Barclays to do anything more. 
Ive noted Miss Ts circumstances which meant it was incredibly challenging for her to go 
into one of Barclays branches to withdraw money. I can also understand why being told she 
could borrow money from friends and relatives would have caused some embarrassment to 
her. I havent seen anything from Barclays submissions that shows she was told she could 
go to a food bank  but Ill accept this at face value. 
Having carefully considered these points, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong 
by not offering an alternative solution to that of going into a branch for Miss T to access her 
funds. Barclays had concerns which underpinned its decision to review the account. 
Because of this, Im persuaded it needed to see Miss T physically in one of its branches with 
the requisite documentation to release any funds to her. 
Ultimately, despite the challenges Miss T faced, she was able to go into branch to withdraw money. So, Im not satisfied Barclays decision placed that onerous a burden. Lastly, and for 
the sake of completeness, I havent seen anything which persuades me Barclays were 
forcing Miss T into a situation where she was breaking COVID rules. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman