DRN-4016003
The complaint
Ms S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly turned down her claim on 
her buildings insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Ms C says her roof was damaged by a storm, so she made a claim on her buildings 
insurance policy with Aviva.
Initially, at Avivas request, Ms C got a repair quote from a roofing contractor. In his quote, 
the contractor refers to a storm having caused a large section of slates on the corner of the 
property to come loose.
Aviva then appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. His report said (among other things) 
the main roof was in poor condition and there was no storm damage to the property. 
On the basis of its surveyors report, Aviva turned down Ms Cs claim, saying the damage 
was caused by the pre-existing condition of her roof.
Unhappy with this, Ms C complained to Aviva and, when it didnt uphold her complaint, came 
to us.
More recently, Ms C got her own report on the roof damage from a second roofing 
contractor. This report said (among other things) there were evident signs of storm damage 
to the roof.
The investigator who looked at Ms Cs complaint didnt uphold it. She thought the windspeed
and rainfall at the time were well below the levels that could reasonably be considered a 
storm. She also thought Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably in relying on its surveyors 
report to turn down Ms Cs claim.
Ms C disagrees. She says Aviva has accepted there was a wet storm at the time the roof 
was damaged. And she says the storm is the sole and main cause of the damage.
So Ms Cs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
For complaints about storm damage claims, we look at three main questions:
1.    Was there a storm?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with the damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no, were likely to say a claim for storm damage 
wont succeed.
In Ms Cs case, Aviva accepts there was a wet storm at the time Ms C says the damage 
was done. So Im treating the answer to the first question as yes. And the damage for 
which Ms C is claiming is consistent with the type of damage a storm can cause. So the 
answer to the second question is also yes.
But, based on the evidence I have, I think the answer to the third question  was the storm 
the main cause of the damage?  is no. In looking at this question, my starting point is that 
it is for Ms C  not Aviva  to show the damage was most likely caused mainly by a storm. 
Aviva has relied on its surveyors report to turn down Ms Cs claim. Ive already mentioned 
some of the surveyors findings. But he also says there are various slipped slates to the 
front and rear elevation to the main roof and that the damage is not consistent with an 
insurable peril for storm but due to a failure of materials externally. The report includes a 
large number of detailed photos of the front and rear roofs showing many areas of damage.
Ms C has relied on evidence from her two roofing contractors to support her claim. As Ive 
mentioned, the repair quote from the first roofing contractor says the damage has been 
caused due to storm lifting a large section of slates on the corner of the property. Ive also 
already mentioned some of the findings in Ms Cs roofing contractors report, in which he 
says there were evident signs of storm damage. He adds:
The main points to this are 
Missing, cracked, and twisted slates due to high winds.
Loose mortar on the verges and ridges caused by movement of the slate tiles.
Signs of water ingress inside the loft. 
Although there is water ingress in the affected parts of the roof, there is visible staining on
the timbers underneath the slate, across the roof. The timbers would show signs of rot if the
roof had failed over time. It can only be caused by high wind driven rain. 
My role isnt to decide what was the main cause of the damage to Ms Cs roof. Its to decide, 
based on the evidence I have, if Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down her 
claim. The evidence here is conflicting. So I have to decide which I find most persuasive. 
In relation to Ms Cs first contractors repair quote, I dont attach much weight to it. Thats 
because its a quote for roof repairs, rather than a professional report into the cause of the 
damage. In relation to Ms Cs second roofing contractors report, theres nothing to say what 
(if any) professional qualifications the contractor has. The report isnt detailed and the 
statements it contains arent supported by other evidence  such as photos  to show how a 
wet storm couldve caused the damage. 
The text in Avivas surveyors report isnt detailed either. But, as Ive mentioned, it includes a 
number of detailed photos of the rear and front roofs, which seem to me to show extensive 
damage in a number of areas. Im not a surveyor or a roofing expert but, looking at these 
photos, I dont think its likely the damage they show is consistent with a one-off wet storm. 
From this evidence, I think its more likely than not the storm highlighted existing issues with 
the roof, rather than being the main cause of the damage.
So, on balance, I find Avivas surveyors report more persuasive than Ms Cs roofing 
contractors report. It follows that I dont think the evidence Ms C has given us is enough to show a storm was most likely the main cause of the damage shes claiming for. Ms Cs 
policy has a general exclusion for gradually occurring damage. Aviva has relied on its 
surveyors finding that the damage Ms C is claiming for was caused by a failure of materials 
externally, rather than a storm.  I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.
Ive considered all of Ms Cs other comments on her complaint but they dont change my 
conclusions on it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman