DRN-2059593
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to her alongside a loan in 1999. 
What happened
The PPI policy that was sold to Mrs B was a single premium policy. That means she had to 
borrow extra on top of the loan and also pay interest on the cost of the premium. The 
premium itself cost £543.61 and the interest was £181.79. The total cost of the cover was 
£725.40. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs B disagreed with that view. 
She said that she only bought the cover because the Nationwide representative told her a 
policy would help her with getting the loan agreed. 
As Mrs B disagrees with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
I am grateful to Mrs B for detailed information she provided in support of her case. I am very 
sorry to disappoint her, but Im afraid I havent upheld her complaint. Ill explain why below.
 
The parties arent in agreement as to how this policy was sold. Nationwide says Mrs B 
completed the application form herself in her own time, whereas Mrs B says she had help to 
fill it out in a local branch. I think Mrs Bs recollection is most likely correct. I say this because 
I can see that there is different handwriting on the form. The personal details appear to have 
been filled out by one person, presumably Mrs B. And what I would say were the trickier 
questions appear to have been completed by someone else. 
So, the first thing Ive thought about in this case is whether Mrs B knew the PPI was optional 
and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. Mrs B says Nationwide misled her 
because it said taking the cover out would speed the loan up. 
I accept that what Mrs B told us is what she honestly remembers about the sale. But I also 
have to bear in mind that it is difficult to recall precisely what happened and what was said 
over 20 years ago, which is when this cover was sold. I can see that in the original PPI 
questionnaire sent to Nationwide (dated 17 July 2019), Mrs B said she had no idea about the 
PPI and that she was shocked that she had been charged for the cover without her 
knowledge. Its difficult for me to accept Mrs Bs recollection as reliable if on the one hand 
she said she didnt know about the PPI cover, but on the other that she recalls clearly being 
misled into taking it out. 
When it sold PPI to Mrs B, Nationwide had to give her enough information about the cover 
so she could decide for herself whether it was right for her needs. That information had to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. I accept its possible that Nationwide didnt tell Mrs B 
everything it should have done. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the 
complaint. I must now consider objectively whether Mrs B would have acted differently if 
shed been told more about the cover. 
To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions 
of the cover. And Ive also given careful thought to Mrs Bs detailed account of her personal 
circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, Mrs Bs repayments would 
have been covered for the life of the loan if she was off sick from work or for a maximum of 
12 months if she was made redundant. 
Mrs B told us that she would have had some sick pay from work, which was the equivalent of 
between three and six-months full pay. So the cover would have lasted for longer than her 
benefits from work. 
Mrs B told us that she had some substantial savings, which were more than ten times the 
amount she had borrowed from Nationwide. She said that she had taken the loan out as she 
was involved in ongoing legal proceedings. She had to make a payment in respect of those 
proceedings. Her solicitor advised her not to use her savings and to borrow the money 
instead. 
I dont doubt that Mrs B had those savings. But I think the PPI could still have been helpful to 
her because she could have become ill or lost her job before the legal proceedings were 
resolved. And with PPI, she wouldnt have had to use her savings to repay the debt to 
Nationwide. I also note that whilst Mrs B may well have intended this loan to be short-term, it 
wasnt actually fully repaid until mid-2004 and had almost run to term. 
Ive also thought about whether the cover being a single-premium policy would have affected 
Mrs Bs decision to take it out. I dont think that would have been a material consideration in 
this case because Mrs B would have received a pro rata refund if the insurance had been 
cancelled early. 
Mrs B told us she was in good health when she took the PPI policy out. So I dont think shed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything else that was unusual about her personal circumstances that would have 
stopped her from making a successful claim if she needed to.
 
Putting all of these things together, I can see how PPI could have been helpful if Mrs B 
became unwell or if she lost her job. I cant objectively say that Mrs B would have acted 
differently even if Nationwide had told her everything it should have about the policy. It 
follows that I dont find this cover was mis-sold. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld her 
complaint. I dont need to tell Nationwide to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman