DRN-2848433
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes being helped with her 
complaint by her father.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss H under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance that she electronically signed in May 2019. The cars engine failed in May 2020 as a 
result of a timing chain issue so Miss H returned it to the dealer and she complained to 
MotoNovo Finance. It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert.
Miss H then took to the car to a manufacturers dealer and the manufacturer paid for some 
testing of the car and for a new engine and a new turbo  but it charged her £1,560 for the 
labour. Miss H asked MotoNovo Finance to pay for the labour cost and to refund the monthly 
payments that shed made under the agreement for the time that she wasnt able to use the 
car. 
It agreed to pay for the labour cost and to pay her £50 for the distress and inconvenience 
that shed been caused  but it didnt agree to refund any monthly payments to her. Miss H 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. She said that she wanted to 
reject the car and for the agreement to be unwound.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think 
that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply but it had been repaired which 
he said appeared to have resolved the issue with it and that Miss H and MotoNovo Finance 
were broadly in agreement about. But he said that Miss H hadnt been able to use the car for 
69 days between May and August 2020 so MotoNovo Finance should refund her for the 
monthly payments she had made during that time, with interest. He also said that it should 
pay her a further amount of £100 for any trouble and upset that shed been caused and that 
it should remove any adverse information from her credit file in relation to the agreement. 
Miss Hs father says that MotoNovo Finance had told him that it would have accepted a 
rejection of the car if the manufacturer hadnt replaced the engine  but its done nothing to 
help Miss H and left her to sort it out. He says that the £100 for stress is nowhere near the 
actual stress suffered.
MotoNovo Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that this is a manufacturing issue and the manufacturer is wholly liable for it and the 
underlying issue isnt something that the dealer could be reasonably expected to be aware of 
or guard against. It says that the independent experts report says that the car was fit for 
purpose and that Miss H was able to drive it for 13,000 miles. It says that its offer to 
reimburse Miss H for the labour costs as it felt she wasnt fairly treated by the manufacturer 
is more than its required to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss H - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss H was more than five years old, had been driven for 
38,180 miles and had a price of £11,623;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Miss H returned the car to the dealer in May 2020 because of issues with engine 
noise and a timing chain issue was identified;
Miss H complained to MotoNovo Finance and took the car to a manufacturers 
dealer;
MotoNovo Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in 
July 2020  but the expert  declined to carry out a road test due to the heavy 
engine knocking noise;
the experts report recorded the cars mileage as 51,174 and said: 
In our opinion based on the visible evidence we would conclude that the 
cause of the condition is consistent with an internal engine fault requiring the 
engine to be dismantled to fully confirm the exact cause and action required. 
We would consider that the vehicle, was not in this condition at finance 
inception and the current issues would not be considered the responsibility of 
the selling agent. We note from the information provided in our instructions 
that the vehicle has been on hire for 259 days and has covered 12,994 miles;
the manufacturer tested the car and replaced its engine and turbo  but it charged 
Miss H for the labour cost of £1,560;
Miss Hs father has provided evidence to show that a diagnostic test on the car in 
March 2019 by a manufacturers dealer (before it was supplied to Miss H) had 
identified an issue with the timing chain  which was the same as the dealers 
diagnosis in May 2020 and was consistent with the faults identified by the 
independent expert in July 2020;
I consider it to be more likely than not that there was an existing fault with the cars 
timing chain when the car was supplied to Miss H in May 2019 and that that fault 
caused the car not to have been of satisfactory quality at that time;
whether or not that fault was a manufacturing defect, MotoNovo Finance was 
responsible for ensuring that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Miss H and I consider that its liable for the issues that shes had with the car;
the cars engine has been replaced and its my understanding that its now working 
correctly so Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for Miss H to be 
able to reject the car; 
Miss H has confirmed that MotoNovo Finance has paid the £1,560 labour costs and 
has paid her £50 for the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused; andI find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to take the actions 
described below.
Putting things right
I dont consider that its fair or reasonable in these circumstances for the manufacturer to 
have charged Miss H £1,560 for the labour costs for replacing the cars engine and turbo. 
For the reasons set out above, I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Miss H and I find that it was fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to 
pay for the labour costs  which it has done.
Miss H says that she was unable to use the car for 69 days between May 2020  when the 
engine failed  and August 2020  when its engine and turbo were replaced. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to refund to Miss H the monthly 
payments that shes made under the agreement for that 69 day period during which she was 
unable to use the car. I consider that it should also pay interest on the amount to be 
refunded.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Miss H. MotoNovo 
Finance has paid £50 compensation to her for that distress and inconvenience but our 
investigator recommended that it should pay her a further £100 compensation. I consider 
that the investigators recommendation is fair and reasonable in these circumstances and Im 
not persuaded that the distress and inconvenience that Miss H has been caused in these 
circumstances justifies a higher award of compensation.
Our investigator has also recommended that MotoNovo Finance should remove any adverse 
information about the agreement that its recorded on Miss Hs credit file. Ive seen no 
evidence to show that it has recorded any adverse information on her credit file but, if it has 
done so, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to remove that information.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Hs complaint and I order MotoNovo Finance Limited to:
1. Refund to Miss H the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement for 
the 69 days between May and August 2020 when she wasnt able to use the car.
2. Pay interest on that refund at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement.
3. Remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement that its 
recorded on Miss Hs credit file.
4. Pay a further £100 to Miss H to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 2 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Miss H a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman