DRN-3108011
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC withdrew funds from his account. They didnt 
provide Mr C with an explanation. Mr C would like compensations for the expenses he 
incurred.
What happened
Mr C had two accounts with Barclays.
On 27 August 2020 whilst working abroad Mr C checked his accounts  he saw there was 
no money in his current account or his savings account. Mr C had £2,000 in his current 
account and £320,000 in his savings account. 
Mr C contacted Barclays requesting an explanation and to find out where the funds had 
gone. They said the situation was being investigated but wouldnt tell Mr C what was 
happening.
Mr C contacted Barclays every day to get some information but was not given any 
information or updates as it was being looked into by the investigation team.
Mr C told us that one of the representatives of Barclays told him he might not get his funds 
back at all. Mr C has said this caused him a great deal of worry and anxiety.
Mr C said he told Barclays he would have to return to the UK if his funds werent returned to 
his account.
Mr C has told us that he was very concerned and as he was working abroad, he decided to 
fly back to the UK to resolve the situation.  Mr C arranged to fly back to the UK on 
4 September 2020. On 7 September he contacted his MP and a press journalist to inform 
them of his situation and ask for their help.
On 9 September 2020 Mr Cs funds were re-credited to his accounts.
Both his MP and the press journalist received confirmation that the review had been 
completed.
Barclays have said they didnt request that Mr C return to the UK. They could not disclose 
the reasons for the review.
Barclays said that they completed their review on 9 September 2020 and contacted Mr Cs 
MP to let them know. Mr C has said that he was unhappy that Barclays didnt inform him that 
the review had been completed.
Mr C would like his flight paid for and also compensation for the months wages he has lost 
as a result of travelling to the UK. The total amount he requests is £14,838.
Mr C complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She said Barclays were entitled to carry 
out a review of Mr Cs account. They werent obliged to tell Mr C the reasons why. She didnt 
think Barclays had done anything wrong when they reviewed Mr Cs account so she didnt 
think any compensation should be payable.
Mr C was unhappy with our investigators view. In summary he said he had no information 
from Barclays, and they wouldnt tell him how long the review would take. He said he had 
warned them that he would have no option but to return to the UK and that is what he had 
done. He thought Barclays should be responsible for the expenses in travelling back to the 
UK and the loss of one months income.  He was unhappy that the investigator considered 
the 13 days it took Barclays to return his funds to be reasonable.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account review
Barclays as a regulated business has extensive obligations placed on it by UK legislation. 
Financial institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well 
as the origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. 
Barclays are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays acted in 
accordance with these obligations and the terms and conditions of the accounts when it 
reviewed Mr Cs accounts. 
I appreciate this was very difficult for Mr C but because of their concerns and in order to 
secure the funds, Barclays, removed funds from the accounts until they had completed their 
investigations. Barclays are entitled to do this as part of their procedures in these sorts of 
cases.
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays took 13 days to investigate their concerns. I have checked 
and Im satisfied that Barclays didnt cause any unnecessary delays when they were carrying 
out their investigation. So, although I can appreciate the stress Mr C felt, I cant say that 
Barclays have done anything wrong here. 
Mr C has said he wants to know why his accounts were subject to a review. He has said that 
nothing in his accounts were out of the ordinary and he had been using his accounts in the 
same way for four years. I appreciate that Mr C mayve expected to be given the reasons for 
the review and some indication as to how long this would go on for, Barclays isnt required to 
give him a specific reason for the review on his accounts. So, I cant say Barclays has done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr C this information  as much as hed like to know.
 
Mr C has said that he is still waiting to hear from Barclays regarding his funds as they 
informed the MP and the press journalist of the outcome of the complaint but didnt let him 
know. I can see Barclays have responded to the complaint by informing Mr Cs chosen 
representative.  I have seen correspondence from Barclays showing they have informed 
Mr Cs MP and the press journalist and they have also written to Mr C to let him know that they would be communicating with our service once the complaint was referred to us.  So, 
although this is frustrating, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong.
Compensation
Mr C has requested compensation from Barclays. Specifically, he has said Barclays should 
pay for the return flight he took to the UK. And also compensate him for the months salary 
he lost as a result of returning to the UK. Mr C had to quarantine on his journey back to the 
UK and his return journey abroad. 
I have considered whether Barclays should be held liable for the losses Mr C incurred.
I have looked at the information provided by Barclays, in particular the contact notes as well 
as the information provided by Mr C. Neither mention that Mr C was required by Barclays to 
return back to the UK. In fact, Mr C has said that he warned Barclays he would return to the 
UK if they didnt return the funds to his account. 
Mr C has said that he spoke to a representative of Barclays who told him he might not get 
his money back. I can see that this would be very worrying for Mr C.  
I appreciate that Mr C was extremely distressed, he told us that he had worked all his life, 
and these were his life savings. I appreciate that Barclays were not giving him much 
information and he originally thought that his account had been hacked. I also note Mr C had 
little faith in Barclays investigation process as he had had a bad experience before. So, I 
can see how at that time he may have felt himself alone and quite vulnerable.
Mr C has mentioned he was penniless and thats why he went back to the UK. I cant see 
how returning to the UK where he didnt have a job would provide him with more money than 
staying abroad and continuing to work.
Mr C has suggested that it was only once he was back in the UK and able to contact his MP 
and a journalist that his account was restored. However, Mr C could have contacted his MP 
and the journalist without returning to the UK. In any event I can confirm the end of the 
review wasnt instigated by the letter Mr Cs MP and the journalist wrote to the bank.
I appreciate the difficulty of trying to communicate with a bank which is in a different 
continent. But Mr Cs son was in the UK and had already been asked to go to the branch to 
enquire so could have helped with the process. I also understand that the account was 
jointly held or at least Mr Cs son was a third party to the account so I cant see that there 
would have been a problem with Mr Cs son speaking to Barclays about the issues on the 
account.
I know Mr C will be disappointed by my decision but looking at everything I think it was 
Mr Cs decision to go back to the UK thus incurring flight costs and the need to quarantine 
twice. I dont think Barclays should be held liable for his decision to return to the UK and the 
costs and losses he incurred as a result, so I wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I reject the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman