DRN-3113129
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) 
to transfer his Section 32 pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to 
invest in multiple high-risk investments in 2011. 
What happened
Mr G was advised by Portal, in July 2011, to transfer his Section 32 pension to a SIPP. He 
took 25% tax-free cash and the residual funds were invested in a number of Unregulated 
Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS) meaning they werent authorised or regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr Gs Section 32 pension had a fund value of approximately £54,000 and a transfer value 
of just over £70,000. The difference being the terminal bonus (a further bonus payable 
when Mr G transferred or retired). The pension provider confirmed that the policy didnt 
have any guarantees or safeguarded benefits.
According to the suitability report, at the time of advice Mr G was 62 years old and lived in 
a property worth £180,000. He was working as an Office Manager earning £500 per 
month. He also received an income from Disability Living Allowance and Tax Credits of 
£1,000 per month. He had a credit card balance of £1,000 and had no other assets or 
liabilities. His attitude to risk was assessed as being a balanced investor.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, she said that the investments recommended were 
unsuitable for Mr G.
Portal didnt accept the investigators recommendation. It said Mr G had a need to access 
the tax-free cash for home improvements and its advice allowed him to do so. But the 
investigator responded to say she hadnt changed her mind. She said the investments 
selected were wholly unsuitable for Mr G. The switch meant that Mr G would incur higher 
charges and it wasnt properly explored with Mr G whether he could have financed his 
home improvements in other ways. She said there was no indication that the home 
improvements were required straight away and she noted the incomings and outgoings 
recorded at the time showed Mr G had a reasonable surplus of income at the end of each 
month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the advice given was wholly unsuitable. I say this because:
Mr G was 62 years of age and assessed as a balanced investor and yet the advice was 
to put the large majority of his funds in high-risk funds. This put his retirement provision 
at risk with little time to recover if large fluctuations occurred.
The advice meant that the charges taken from his pension fund were increased 
significantly without any evidence of likely benefit bar the ability to take tax-free cash 
without the need for an annuity. This couldve been achieved without such an increase in 
charges.
Mr G didnt have many years left until his likely retirement and therefore even if the 
investment advice had been suitable for him  its unlikely this wouldve outperformed the 
additional charges to an extent that Mr G would see benefit from the advice to transfer to 
the SIPP. The regulator provided guidance in 2008 around pension switching and this 
was one of the reasons highlighted where advice was deemed unsuitable.
Investment in UCIS even at a small proportion was unsuitable for Mr G. Mr G didnt have 
the necessary experience or knowledge for this to have been suitable for him. And 
regulatory guidance for even those it may be suitable for, was that the investment 
proportion in UCIS should be restricted to between 3 to 5%. Here the majority of Mr Gs 
funds were invested in UCIS.
Portal appears to be suggesting we should ignore the investment advice but agree the 
advice to transfer was suitable because Mr G required the tax-free cash. At the time the 
adviser made no material attempt to consider or set out alternative options of how to fund his 
home improvements nor alternatives to the SIPP, which was to Mr Gs detriment. I think the 
course of action was set the moment Mr G agreed to be a client of Portals. This paragraph 
from the recommendation is in itself rather telling:
some of the partners of Portal Financial may also have business interests in some of the 
funds invested in through your personal pension. Portal Financial will not receive any 
commission through the investment that we may recommend to you.Due to the fact that if 
the fund grows it is mutually beneficial, we believe that there is no conflict of interest.
Portals defence centres on the fact it was recorded Mr G required tax-free cash for home 
improvements. But I dont think other avenues for generating the required funds were 
considered. In the fact-find there is a couple of lines about Mr G not wanting a loan or further 
debt and that he didnt own a house. As an aside it appears in fact Mr G did own a property. 
I note the investigator looked at the recorded incomings and outgoings and felt Mr G had 
room within his finances to pay for the home improvements over time but Im not sure I 
agree. A full expenditure analysis wasnt completed but the report shows a small excess 
income of around £130 a month. And I also note Mr G had some debts then and latterly 
incurred further debts which meant he requested further withdrawals from his pension. 
I accept Mr G may have wished to access his tax-free cash and it may have been difficult to 
pay for his home improvements in other ways. And his existing product didnt offer the ability 
to take tax-free cash without an annuity. But it doesnt look like the adviser spent any time 
considering alternative funding or whether taking tax-free cash to pay for home 
improvements was suitable given hed require income in retirement. Nor was it considered 
whether alternatives to the transfer to the SIPP couldve better facilitated Mr Gs needs. Mr 
Gs needs and retirement provision were quite complex given he relied on benefits for much 
of his income, would likely be retiring in the not too distant future, and additional income 
could affect those benefits. But it doesnt look like this was considered in any detail.  Regardless of whether Mr G required tax-free cash, the investments recommended 
were wholly unsuitable. And therefore Portals justification of the advice as a whole on 
the basis the customer required tax-free cash falls down. As it cannot ignore the 
unsuitable investment advice it gave. 
UCIS have multiple significant risk factors associated with them. There can be a lack of 
regulation, longevity, potential insolvency, offshore and currency exchange, liquidity 
issues and other factors which could prevent investors from accessing their funds and 
the fact that the funds are mostly dependant on specific market areas. 
For this reason, they are only suitable for experienced or high net worth investors. Mr G 
was not a high net worth investor or an experienced investor and so shouldnt have 
been exposed to such a significant risk over such a large proportion of his portfolio.
This represented a level of risk that Mr G could not reasonably be said to be prepared to 
take  and put his entire pension provision at risk. The fact that some of those risks were 
explained to Mr G isnt a defence. Portal had a duty to give suitable advice meaning they 
ought to have advised investments suitable for Mr Gs risk profile and circumstances. 
Furthermore, the investment within the SIPP with the additional charges, commission 
and upfront fees was a very expensive method of Mr G accessing his tax-free cash.
In conclusion the advice to transfer Mr Gs existing pension into a SIPP to make high-
risk investments was wholly unsuitable. Mr G needs to be compensated for this 
unsuitable advice. Its difficult to say what he wouldve done had he been given suitable 
advice, so compensation in line with a suitable benchmark seems the fairest solution to 
this issue. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr G should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr G would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr G's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr G fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below.
Portal should pay into Mr G's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr G's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mr G £300 for the unsuitable advice and worry the loss of funds will have 
caused him.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr G how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr G a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Still exists 
but illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Portal should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Portal pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Portal is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Portal may require that Mr G provides an 
undertaking to pay Portal any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set 
out above how this might be achieved by Portal taking over the illiquid assets, or this is 
something that Mr G can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that 
will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Portal is 
unable to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it 
pays Mr G an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated 
using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr G wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr G into that position. It does not mean that Mr G would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman