DRN-1840951
The complaint
A is a partnership. One of the partners, Mrs R, complains on behalf of A about the service 
she received from Barclays Bank UK Plc when trying to obtain a reference.   
What happened
Mrs R wrote to Barclays at the end of October 2019 requesting a reference to enable A to 
renew a membership with the Law Society. The request was signed by Mrs R in line with the 
mandate for the account. However, Barclays declined the request as it said that Mrs Rs 
signature didnt match the one it held on file. Barclays wrote to Mrs R on 8 November 2019 
explaining this.
Mrs R sent a second request for the reference to Barclays on 13 November 2019. This 
request was also rejected, as again the bank said the signature didnt match the one held on 
their file. 
A third request was submitted on 21 November 2019. Barclays were satisfied with the 
signature on this occasion, and they issued the reference directly to the Law Society on 
27 November 2019.
Mrs R complained to Barclays about the problems shed encountered in trying to obtain the 
reference the Law Society required. She was unhappy with the length of time taken to 
process the request and said she thought the issues she experienced could have been 
resolved more quickly if she had known who As new account manager was. 
Mrs R said she had to make several phone calls to ensure the third request had been 
received by Barclays. She said she was told she would receive an email confirmation to 
show that the reference had been processed and sent to the Law Society, but she never 
received one. Mrs R was unhappy that she had to call Barclays to confirm the reference had 
been sent.
Barclays investigated the complaint and said they were satisfied that the first two requests 
received from Mrs R were rejected correctly as the signatures on the letters didnt match 
their records. But they accepted that an email confirmation wasnt sent to Mrs R and they 
offered her £25 in recognition of this error, which Mrs R declined.
Mrs R was unhappy about Barclays response and she referred her complaint to us. Our 
investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong in declining the first two requests 
for the reference. She also didnt agree that Barclays hadnt told A about who to contact after 
their previous relationship manager had left. She agreed that Barclays should compensate 
Mrs R for not informing her that the reference had been issued but felt that the £25 it had 
already offered was fair.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the amount of compensation offered as she didnt think it 
represented the inconvenience she had experienced. She thought it should be paid at a 
partners hourly rate and was expecting to receive £150. So, she asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Barclays needed to ensure they were satisfied with the instruction before releasing sensitive 
banking information to a third party, in order to protect their customers interests. They said 
that as this service is not computerised, the signatures had to be checked manually to show 
they were signed in accordance with the mandate.
Ive compared the signatures on the first two letters sent by Mrs R to Barclays against the 
signature held on their mandate for Mrs R. I think there were notable differences between 
them. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to reject these requests. 
I know that Mrs R thinks this process was time consuming, but I think Barclays reasons for 
not accepting the signatures were valid. And they wrote to A in a timely manner on both 
occasions explaining why the requests had been rejected. So I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong here.
Barclays told Mrs R they would send her a confirmation email once the reference had been 
completed and forwarded to the Law Society, but they didnt send one. Mrs R said she had 
to make several phone calls to Barclays as a result, to confirm that her request had been 
processed. 
I understand that this must have been frustrating for Mrs R, especially as the submission 
date was approaching. But the reference was successfully completed, within a couple of 
days of Barclays receipt of an acceptable signed letter. And the reference was received in 
time for the deadline  so there was no impact on As ability to practise and it didnt suffer 
any financial loss. So, taking all this into account, I think the offer of £25 to compensate for 
this inconvenience of the additional phone calls is fair. 
I understand Mrs R would like compensation at the hourly rate of a partner. However, we do 
not decide compensation in that way.
Mrs R said that some of the issues she experienced during this process could have been 
avoided if A had been informed of the details of its new relationship manager after the 
previous one had left. But I can see from the banks account notes that Barclays wrote to A 
in September 2015, informing it that their relationship with Barclays would now be managed 
by the Barclays Business Direct team. 
A was provided with the contact details for this team and Barclays made a welcome call to A 
in April 2016. They were unable to speak to Mrs R at this time, so they made another two 
follow up calls that month and provided the contact details for the new team to the practice 
secretary. So, I think Barclays did all Id reasonably expect of it in providing A with the details 
of the new team and how to contact them. As a result, these points dont change my 
conclusion. 
 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc must pay £25 to A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R on behalf of 
A to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman