DRN-4230292
The complaint
Mr O and Ms A complain about the actions of HDI Global Specialty SE after they made a 
claim under their home insurance policy.
Mr O and Ms A are joint policy holders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Mr O, Ill refer mainly to him in my decision.
HDI is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As HDI has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to HDI includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In early 2022, Mr O arranged for a builder to carry out a loft conversion on his bungalow. 
Building works began in around April 2022.
Mr O says the builder disappeared before the works were completed. In December 2022,  
Mr O says he was looking at alternative builders to continue the project and he was in 
discussion with a company (P). Whilst these discussions were taking place, Mr Os roof 
collapsed.
Mr O contacted HDI who arranged for a loss adjuster to attend the property the same day. P 
was also present on site. It was decided that P should carry out work to make the building 
safe. Mr O says P was instructed to do the work by HDIs loss adjuster.
The loss adjuster arranged for the roof to be inspected by a structural engineer to determine 
the cause of collapse. Mr O says that when he enquired about a covering for the property to 
protect it from the elements, the engineer told him it would be dealt with by the insurance 
company. However, nothing was ever put over the damaged roof.
A couple of weeks later, Mr O was informed by the broker that HDI had refused to renew his 
insurance policy. He raised a complaint about this as well as its handling of his claim.
HDI informed Mr O that it wasnt covering his claim. It told him that an endorsement had 
been applied to his policy for the time his home was undergoing renovation, repair or 
structural works which meant the damage was excluded.
HDI didnt provide Mr O with a response to his complaint within the necessary timeframe, so 
Mr O asked our service to consider his concerns. 
He said hed contacted the broker in March 2022 to let it know about the building work that 
was to be carried out. At no time was he told that it invalidated his insurance. He questioned 
why HDI had gone through the whole procedure of loss adjuster, structural engineer and a 
prolonged review before arriving at its decision. He also queried who HDI thought would pay 
for P to make the building safe, and why he was told covering the building from the elements 
would be covered by the claim.
In the meantime, HDI responded to Mr Os complaint. It referred to a condition in the policy 
that required Mr O to inform the broker if there were changes to the details provided, which 
gave the example of the home undergoing structural alteration, structural repair, restoration 
or renovation. It said that as Mr O didnt inform the broker of building works, HDI decided to 
apply an endorsement with effect from 1 March 2022 for any loss, damage or liability 
caused by or arising from (his) home undergoing demolition, structural alteration or structural 
repair. It also decided not to offer Mr O the opportunity to renew the policy because his 
property was not in a good state of repair and was undergoing building works.
Our investigator looked into Mr Os concerns, but he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think it was unfair for HDI to have applied the retroactive exclusion and 
declined the claim. And he wasnt persuaded that HDI was responsible for paying the costs 
of making Mr Os property safe after the incident.
Mr O disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said HDIs loss adjuster had instructed 
the builders to carry out work. This was because the loss adjuster was concerned that third 
party claims may be forthcoming to HDI should the side walls fall into the neighbouring 
property. Mr O said HDI was clearly taking responsibility and he couldnt see how he and  
Ms A would have benefitted from this work. 
Mr O provided an email from his neighbour to support what hed said about the loss adjuster 
instructing the builders. He also commented that an invoice hed provided from P was 
addressed to him because he believed HDI had refused to pay the costs.
As Mr O disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage. When Mr O notified HDI of his claim, he told it a builder had 
begun work on his loft, but the builder had disappeared a few months before. According to 
HDIs notes, Mr O said scaffolding had been put up two days before and the roof had 
collapsed following this. 
Accidental damage is listed as being one of the events covered by Mr Os policy. From 
what I can see, HDI sent its loss adjuster to Mr Os property the day he made the claim to 
assess the damage and provide HDI with information it needed to consider the claim. 
According to the loss adjusters report, there was no clear indication as to the cause of the 
collapse, so a surveyor from another company was instructed to inspect the property once it 
was made safe. 
If its established that an insured event caused the damage an insurer can decline a claim if 
it can show, on balance, that an exclusion applies or a condition has been breached.
The policys terms and conditions include a general condition which says:
Building workIf you are planning to have any structural work undertaken at your home for example an 
extension, demolishing any walls, renovation or any form of building work, you must tell us 
about any plans at least 7 days before the work commences. We will then assess the risk 
and provide any terms to the policy we deem necessary. We will not pay any claim for loss 
or damage caused by and/or arising either directly or indirectly due to the building work 
taking place, without prior agreement.
Mr O says he told his broker about the building work prior to it commencing. However, the 
broker says its checked the telephone numbers hes provided and has no record of this call. 
Mr O also hasnt been able to provide any evidence to show that he phoned the broker to let 
it know about the building work. So, I think its reasonable for HDI to have concluded that   
Mr O didnt make it aware that building work was to be carried out.
As HDI wasnt aware of the building work prior to the claim, it referred the matter to its 
underwriters after seeking further information about the works from Mr O.
The underwriters made the decision to apply an endorsement with effect from 1 March 2022 
as follows:
The following changes are made to Section 1: Buildings and / or Section 2 Contents:
Whilst your home is undergoing renovation, repair or structural works, cover will not be 
provided for:
-any loss, damage or liability arising out of the renovation, repair or structural work
-any loss, damage or liability arising out of the activities of contractors
-any loss or damage to Contents caused by theft or attempted theft unless there is 
physical evidence of forced entry to, or exit from, the Home
Given that Mr O appears to have breached the relevant policy condition, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HDI to have applied a retroactive exclusion to the policy. It hadnt had the 
opportunity to assess the risk before building work commenced. The policy terms also allow 
HDI to decline claims for loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by building work taking 
place without prior agreement. 
HDI has provided a copy of the report from the loss adjuster who visited Mr O the day after 
the roof collapsed.
Based on what Ive seen, it seems likely that the damage was related to the structural work 
being carried out on Mr Os property or activities of contractors. So, I dont think it was unfair 
for HDI to decline Mr Os claim.
Mr O says he didnt instruct the builders (P) to carry out work on his property to make it safe. 
He says the instruction was given by HDIs loss adjuster to protect HDIs interests. He also 
says he was told that a covering would be placed over the property to protect it from the 
elements, but this didnt happen. 
The loss adjusters report from his initial visit to Mr Os property says:
 we arrived that afternoon to inspect the damage to discover the builders and the Insured 
at the property discussing how best to proceed with the safety of the building.
During our meeting with all parties we discussed options with regards to the removal or 
make safe of the property. Following various ideas, it was agreed to have the builders team remove the tiles and bricks from the roof to avoid further collapse towards the neighbours 
dwelling or into the house itself. We advised the Insured that this was for safety and not an 
agreement of liability for the potential claim. The insured agreed with our thoughts / 
reasoning and accepted that all costs are likely to remain for his consideration as policy 
liability is unlikely to engage.
Mr O has given a different version of events. Hes adamant that HDI instructed P to carry out 
the work to make his property safe and he didnt agree to cover the costs himself. Hes also 
provided an email from his neighbour which says he witnessed the loss adjuster instructing 
P to carry out work to make the structure safe and he took it that the insurance company 
was agreeing to pay.
I cant be sure of exactly what was said during the loss adjusters initial visit. Ive needed to 
consider what Im more persuaded by and the loss adjusters report contains a more detailed 
account of what was said. And I think its unlikely that an insurer would have accepted 
liability for making the property safe so early in the claim. I also havent seen any information 
to confirm what Mr O says he was told about a protective covering being placed over his 
property. 
Even if there was some confusion about these matters, I dont think Mr O has lost out 
because the claim wasnt covered due to the endorsement on his policy. So, HDI wasnt 
required to protect his property from the elements and Mr O was always going to have to pay 
the costs of making it safe.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr O and Ms A, but overall, I think HDI has acted 
fairly and reasonably, in line with the policys terms and conditions. So, I dont require it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr O and Ms As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman