DRN-4272668
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how NewDay Ltd trading as John Lewis Partnership Card (NewDay) 
have allocated payments and refunds to her account.
What happened
Mrs A took out a credit card with NewDay and made use of a balance transfer offer. She 
transferred a balance of £1,000 to her NewDay account, on a rate on 0% for six months. Mrs 
A also used the card for purchases.
Mrs A says that NewDay hasnt done what it said it would when applying payments and 
refunds to the account. She says that that payments and refunds havent been allocated to 
the highest interest-bearing balances first. And this will lead to her having to pay additional 
interest.
NewDay responded to Mrs As complaint and upheld it in part. It offered her £35 for some 
customer service issues shed experienced. However, it said it had allocated payments to 
her account correctly.
Unhappy with NewDays response relating to how payments are allocated to balances, Mrs 
A asked this service to look into the matter. An Investigator considered matters, but they 
didnt uphold the complaint. The Investigator provided a detailed view that explained how 
NewDay allocated payments to the different types of balances on the account. And they 
explained why they felt NewDay had acted fairly.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said Because of the way NewDay set up the offer (the 6 months 
interest free on Balance Transfers) they charged interest on purchases from the point the 
purchases were added to the account balance. This meant that the allocation of payments 
and refunds by NewDay did NOT match what they stated on their statements. Whilst an 
interest free balance existed, any purchases were liable to interest from day one, so the 
refunds and payments should have been allocated to any of the purchase balances (both 
'new' and 'old') before paying off the interest free balance.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, I wont be upholding Mrs As 
complaint. I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to her, however Ill 
explain my reasons for this below.
The Investigator has already provided a clear explanation as to what has happened in this 
case, and how credits are allocated to the different balances on Mrs As account. So, I dont 
intend to go over this point again.
However, I think the disagreement here is that Mrs A still feels that NewDay didnt allocate 
payments to balances with higher rates, before those on lower rates. And this is because 
when it allocated payments, it allocated them to balances on Mrs As statement, before 
purchases that hadnt yet been applied to a statement. Mrs A feels this is unfair, because 
this would mean she would end up paying her balance transfer on a 0% promotional rate, 
before new purchases which accrue interest from the date they are made. 
I can see on Mrs As statement, it explains that:
If you don't pay your balance in full, we will allocate payments to balances with the highest 
interest rate before balances with lower interest rates. There are some exceptions to this 
including the way we allocate payments to any instalment or PayDown plan. For further 
details, please refer to the 'How do we apply payments to the different balances?' section in 
your Credit Agreement.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of Mrs As account, and under the section How 
do we apply payments to the different balances it says:
 When you make a repayment to us, we will apply it to the balance shown on your 
statement first, and then to any transactions not yet shown on your statement, as follows:
we will use your payment to pay off balances that are charged at higher interest rates 
before those that are charged at lower interest rates; .
I think the terms and conditions are clear with its explanation. Simply put, it means that any 
transactions that havent yet been billed on a monthly statement are looked at last when it 
comes to allocating any payment made to the account  regardless of the interest charge 
they may attract. Given what the terms and conditions state, it would appear that NewDay 
has allocated payments to Mrs As account in line with this.
The reference to payment allocations on Mrs As statement are specific to that statement. So 
NewDay has applied payments to balances on a higher rate of interest, before those on a 
lower rate, in relation to that statement.
I can understand Mrs As point of view here, that new purchases not applied to the statement 
are essentially accruing interest from the day they are made, until they are repaid. And the 
way NewDay allocate payments allows for payments to be allocated to balances on a 0% 
rate before balances that, while not on the statement, are accruing interest. But this services 
role is not a regulatory one. So, Im unable to comment specifically upon NewDays policies, 
terms or conditions. I can only consider whether NewDay has been fair and reasonable in 
the way that it has applied them to Mrs As circumstances. Although I appreciate that Mrs A 
will be disappointed, I cant reasonably conclude that NewDay has acted unfairly here. It has 
allocated payments in a way that complies with the explanations in the terms and conditions.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman