DRN-2002032
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Elderbridge Limited wont remove a charge from the title of a property 
he owns. He believes the secured loan the charge was associated with was written-off by 
the original lender, or cant be pursued by it, and so the charge should be removed.
What happened
In 2006 Mr W took advice from a mortgage broker and applied for a secured loan. The 
lender agreed the loan for £71,000 over 25 years. The loan wasnt administered by the 
lender, but rather another part of the same business group (which I will refer to as the 
previous administrator). Unfortunately, shortly thereafter Mr W got into financial difficulties 
and payments to the loan were missed. In 2008 the previous administrator supressed the 
interest being charged on the loan. This means that it kept it as a separate balance so that 
the missed interest payments were not compounded. Payments were made after this 
happened, but not every month and not always for the full amount due. 
In the spring of 2009 Mr W called the previous administrator and told it that he had moved 
back into the property and would be making the mortgage payments going forward and 
would also pay something towards the arrears. Whilst he completed an income and 
expenditure form and a new direct debit mandate, no agreement as to what he would pay 
was made. In light of that the administrator passed the account to a debt collection agent. 
Payments were received on a monthly basis until March 2010. No further payments were 
made to the account after that date. 
It would appear Mr W moved out of the property again, but he didnt tell the previous 
administrator. In 2016 the administration of the loan was passed to Elderbridge. It has been 
responsible for the administration activities completed since. 
Correspondence was sent to Mr W from Elderbridge to the property the loan was attached to 
as he contacted it in 2017. When he did so he said it was because his ex-wife (who still lived 
in the property) had told him to. He raised a complaint with Elderbridge about the loan. He 
said the loan had been mis-sold and so should be written off. Elderbridge rejected the 
complaint and gave Mr W the option to refer his complaint to this service. He didnt do so 
and we cant consider any of the issues addressed under that complaint. 
In 2019 Mr W wanted to sell the property. He was made aware there was still a charge on 
the property and contacted Elderbridge. Mr W said the property was his main residence in 
this country, although he worked abroad. He confirmed that his daughter had been living in 
the property throughout and when the call handler said that hed been sent a lot of 
correspondence, he explained that she was young, she hadnt been organised about putting 
his correspondence in one place and so he may not have seen it. He proposed that 
Elderbridge settle the debt for whatever was left of the sale price after the main mortgage 
was paid off and the selling costs had been paid. Based on the figures he gave the call 
handler, this would have been in the region of £10-15,000. The full amount owed at the time 
was a little over £140,000.
When Elderbridge wasnt willing to accept the offer he had made, Mr W complained. He 
believed that the defaulted debt was statute time-barred and so no longer stood. Elderbridge 
said it had addressed the complaint in 2017 and wouldnt comment further. In relation to the 
removal of the charge, it said the previous administrators had written-off the debt and so it 
was unable to deal with the complaint  it had referred the complaint to the original 
administrator. 
Elderbridge has explained to this service that when it described as debt as being written-off, 
it meant that the previous administrator had given up trying to get Mr W to make the 
contractual payments.
A short time later Elderbridge wrote to Mr W again. It said that whilst he thought it couldnt 
pursue the amount owed as he hadnt made a payment to the loan for 12 years, that wasnt 
the case. It confirmed that the last payment had been made on 25 March 2010, which had 
been obtained through debt collectors. It also explained that whilst there was a debt 
outstanding the charge rightly remained on the property.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
explained that it was not for this service to decide if a debt was legally enforceable or not; 
that was a matter for the courts. We would only consider whether a business had acted 
reasonably in pursuit of the debt. He was satisfied it had and as such, didnt consider he 
could ask Elderbridge to remove the charge on the property.
Whilst Mr W initially accepted the investigators conclusions, he subsequently changed his 
mind. He said that he wanted to appeal on the basis that Elderbridge had confirmed that the 
loan was written-off having spoken to the original administrator. He said that he had found a 
buyer for the property, but that Elderbridge was stopping the sale, which was causing him 
mental and financial stress. He asked that the complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W believes that Elderbridge, on behalf of the lender, isnt able to pursue the amount 
owed under the loan agreement because of how long it has been since he made any 
payments and it pursued him for the debt. As our investigator confirmed, it is not for this 
service to decide whether Elderbridge would be able to pursue Mr W through the courts for 
the amount he owes. What we do is consider what has happened and whether Elderbridge 
has treated Mr W fairly and in a reasonable manner.
Mr W has mentioned that he believes the loan was mis-sold and that this was accepted in 
2007. Elderbridge has said there is no record of a complaint being made about the sale of 
the loan until 2017. For completeness I will comment on this matter, but I dont consider it 
key to the outcome of the complaint. If a complaint was made and upheld, I think it unlikely 
the complaint was made to and dealt with by the lender or the former administrator. Mr Ws 
loan was arranged through a broker, which would have been responsible for the advice he 
received, and so if a complaint was upheld in 2007, it is most likely the broker that did so. 
The lender may well not have been aware of the complaint and the outcome of any such 
complaint wouldnt result in the lender wiping out the debt. Indeed, it doesnt appear that 
Mr W thought that it did, given he continued to make payments to the loan until 2010.
The previous administrator of the loan attempted to pursue Mr W for the debt, but it seems it 
gave up on doing so in 2010. I dont have a record of why that was, but given Mr Ws 
comments, this may be because he began working abroad, or at the very least moved away from the property. I have seen no evidence that the debt was written-off and it would be most 
unusual for that action to be taken if there was thought to be any equity in the property. 
Whilst there is a debt outstanding, it isnt unreasonable for the lender and its administrators 
to maintain the charge on the property to enable it to retrieve at least some of the monies 
owing in the event of the property being sold.
I note that Elderbridge said to Mr W in one of its letters that the previous administrators had 
written-off the debt. What it meant was that the previous administrator had given up on 
getting Mr W to make payments to the loan. This wording was unfortunate as it may have 
confused the situation and possibly raised Mr Ws hopes. However, if it did, I think the 
misunderstanding was short-lived and didnt have any material impact on the situation.
Overall, whilst I can understand Mr W simply wants to sell the property and walk away from 
the situation, it isnt unreasonable for Elderbridge to apply the contract terms he signed up to 
in 2006. I dont think Elderbridge has treated Mr W unfairly.
I note Mr W has said since he asked us to consider his complaint, Elderbridge stopped the 
sale of his property going through. He was clearly unhappy with that action, but he would 
need to make a separate complaint about that action to Elderbridge before we could become 
involved.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
10 September 2020.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman