DRN-3756547
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed a number of payments to leave his 
account which, he says, he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In January 2021 several payments left Mr Ms account which he tells us he didnt authorise. 
Most of the payments went to the same account held with a cryptocurrency exchange, but 
there was also a transfer of £750 made to a named individual (although the payment 
reference was the same cryptocurrency exchange). He said he only made one payment of 
£500 to the cryptocurrency exchange and the money ended up in an account held in his own 
name. Hes suggested that his phone and mobile banking facility were hacked and an 
unknown third party made all of the other disputed payments. 
Barclays tried, unsuccessfully, to recover the money from the receiving account. It also said 
Mr M had suffered no financial loss because the money had been transferred to a 
cryptocurrency exchange account held in his own name.
Our investigator noted that Mr Ms version of events had changed over time. And he didnt 
ultimately think Barclays had done anything wrong. Mr M disagreed, so the complaint has 
come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr M isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. 
Ive considered whether Mr M authorised the transactions thatve been disputed  and so, in 
line with the PSRs, whether he completed the agreed steps to make the payments or gave 
consent for someone else to complete them. And where theres a dispute about what 
happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the evidence.
I note in particular that:
Mr M has been somewhat evasive when the bank and this service asked him questions 
and requested evidence. And his version of events has changed over time. At one point 
he indicated that someone his sister knew, who worked in or knew about finance, took 
control of his computer and made the transfers on his behalf for an investment. But hes 
also said he knew nothing about the payments until he logged into his account or 
checked his statements to check his wages had been paid. Hes also mentioned his 
phone being hacked. Its not unusual for this service to receive complaints from 
consumers who thought they were making a genuine investment and were persuaded to 
send their money to cryptocurrency accounts held in their own names and then send it 
on to what eventually turns out to be a scammer. But Mr M assured our investigator that 
thats not what happened in his case, and I think hes had ample opportunity to explain 
what did happen. 
The records the bank has provided suggest the disputed transfers were all made via 
Mr Ms online banking account or via the mobile banking app. They were all made from 
one IP address, which is the same one thats been linked to earlier transactions which 
Mr M has not disputed as well as the £500 transfer he accepts he made around the 
same time. Mr M hasnt provided any explanation about how a third party could have 
hacked into his phone and computer and guessed his login credentials in order to carry 
out the disputed transactions.
All but one of the disputed transfers were sent to the same receiving bank account (held 
by the cryptocurrency exchange) as the one to which Mr M sent the undisputed £500. 
The £500 payment he did send wasnt the first one that went to that account so the new 
payee must have been set up earlier, yet Mr M doesnt seem to have noticed or queried 
this when he made his payment. Mr M also says he set up and had control of the 
receiving cryptocurrency exchange account, but he doesn't seem to have noticed the 
earlier or subsequent payments. 
Two large payments came into Mr Ms account around the time of the disputed payments 
 one before the first disputed payments and another the next day. Mr M says this 
money was from an overseas account held in his own name as hed been saving to buy 
a house in the UK. But he hasnt said that account was hacked and he has hasnt 
provided the additional information weve asked for about that account and those 
payments. 
In the circumstances I cant fairly conclude that, as Mr M latterly suggested, a third party 
made the disputed transfers without his knowledge or consent. 
Mr M says the bank ought to have queried the payments and I agree the larger ones in 
particular were out of character given the way he usually operated the account. But, given 
what Mr M has told us, I cant see why any intervention the bank mightve made would have 
stopped the payments from going through.
Overall, I cant fairly tell Barclays to refund any of the disputed transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman