DRN-3629200
The complaint
Mr I is unhappy with how Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc (Toyota Finance) supported 
him after the catalytic convertor was stolen on a car supplied to him under a hire purchase 
agreement.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr I was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Toyota Finance. He paid a deposit of £2,000 and the agreement was for £11,112 over 49 
months; with 48 monthly repayments of £167.88, and a final payment of £4,963.75. 
On 2 March 2022, the catalytic convertor was stolen from the car. Mr I took the car to the 
supplying dealership, who ordered a replacement part. However, there was a delay in the 
delivery of the parts, and the car wasnt repaired until May/June 2022 (exact date unknown).
Mr I complained to Toyota Finance. But they said the theft was a matter for his insurers, and 
that the supplying dealership was chasing for the replacement part, which had been delayed 
due to the war in Europe. They also confirmed that, if Mr I wanted a non-manufacture part 
fitted, he wouldnt be penalised for this when the car was returned. And they asked Mr I to 
contact their specialist team who could look at options to support him with regards to his 
payments. Mr I wasnt happy with their response, and he brought his complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said that, because the theft happened after the car was supplied to Mr I, the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) didnt apply. And Toyota Finance werent obliged to take 
any action. So, she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr I didnt agree. He said that the CRA required a car to be of a satisfactory quality when 
supplied. And this is evidence enough that Toyota are responsible for my predicament as 
[the finance] is an integral part of the Toyota Group, and all issues arising out of the said 
finance agreement, falls on the responsibility of Toyota. And hes asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I address the points raised, I think it would be beneficial to set out what Im able to 
consider as part of my decision. While I appreciate Mr Is comments, Toyota Finance having 
the same branding as the supplying dealership doesnt make them responsible for the 
dealerships actions. They are separate legal entities. If Mr I has a complaint about the 
service hes received from the supplying dealership, he needs to raise this with them directly. 
Ill only be considering the obligations of Toyota Finance.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr I was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Toyota Finance are responsible. 
Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless Toyota Finance can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr I to show that it was present when 
the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr I took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Toyota Finance to put this right.
It's not disputed that the car was supplied with a catalytic convertor, and it only became 
unusable once this was stolen. But the theft in March 2022 doesnt make the car of an 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply in February 2022. And Ive seen no evidence to 
show me that the car was of an unsatisfactory quality for any other reason when it was 
supplied to Mr I. As such, Im satisfied that Toyota Finance arent liable for this matter. And 
Im in agreement that the theft is a matter for his insurers.
However, Ive also considered how Toyota Finance dealt with Mr I when he contacted them. 
While they explained their position on the liability, they also offered him an alternative - a 
non-manufacturer part, without penalty when the car was returned. And they provided him 
with a contact number for him to discuss his circumstances, and to see what additional 
support they could provide. Given these circumstances, Im satisfied that Toyota Finance 
acted fairly and reasonably. And I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint about Toyota Financial Services 
(UK) Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman