DRN-2043147
The complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) removed his overdraft facility without his 
knowledge causing him embarrassment, stress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr T has a bank account with TSB with an agreed overdraft facility. Mr T says when trying to 
complete a banking transaction he was informed that he didnt have sufficient funds and his 
overdraft facility had been removed. Despite Mr T complaining the overdraft wasnt 
reinstated for almost 2 months during which time a payment made into his account that was 
intended to be forwarded to his son couldnt be made. Mr T says this has caused family 
issues, stress and a great deal of inconvenience and Mr T had to make alternative banking 
arrangements during this time . 
TSB says they have apologised to Mr T for the mistake in removing his overdraft facility and 
have refunded any interest and charges as a result of this and offered to refund any 
additional costs he may incur. They have also paid £75 by way of an apology to Mr T for the 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr T was unhappy with the level of compensation offered by TSB and was looking for a 
substantial compensation payment. 
The matter was referred to this service and the investigator looked at all the information 
available but didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. The investigator felt that while he could see Mr 
T had been inconvenienced and the issue had caused upset, the compensation offered by 
TSB was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how I 
have come to my decision. 
I can understand that it must have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr T to have his 
overdraft facility removed without notification leading to the inconvenience I can see it 
caused him .
Mr T says that despite him complaining to TSB it took nearly two months for the limit on his 
bank account to be restored and funds he paid into his account that intended to be 
forwarded to his son couldnt be arranged and this caused issues within his family - 
alongside upset and inconvenience to him. Mr T says he had to make alternative banking 
arrangements during this time. He says that the level of compensation offered by TSB 
doesnt cover the stress, embarrassment and upset it has caused him.
When looking at Mr Ts complaint here, given TSB have admitted they made a mistake when 
the overdraft limit was allowed to expire from Mr Ts  account - I have focussed on whether 
the level of redress offered and paid was appropriate.
From the information I have seen, what happened here is, TSB agreed an overdraft facility in 
October 2018 for 12 months but allowed the limit to run off without reinstating it, which led to 
the complaint. TSB have acknowledged this was an error and have subsequently reinstated 
the overdraft facility limit and reversed the interest and charges debited to Mr Ts account 
and have agreed any future charges made as a result of the limit being removed will also be 
refunded. TSB have also agreed that any out of pocket expenses incurred to Mr T as a result 
of his complaint will also be considered. TSB have also paid £75 by way of compensation for 
the inconvenience caused.
When considering compensation payments my role is to ensure that TSB, like all banks, 
have put the customer back into the position they would have been prior to the mistake 
being made and while Mr T is looking for a substantial compensation payment it is  not my 
role to penalise them for what appears to be a genuine error. What is important here is TSB 
have not only reinstated the facility they have refunded any charges and agreed to cover out 
of pocket expenses Mr T may have incurred should he provide this information to them.  This 
is in addition to the £75 compensation they have paid into his account and this is what I 
would expect to see here. 
On balance , while I can see that Mr T has been inconvenienced here, I cant see that he 
has been financially disadvantaged, and it follows I am satisfied the level of compensation 
offered by TSB is proportionate. 
While I understand that Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking 
anymore of TSB here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman