DRN-3699963
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) handling of 
her complaint following an accident she had when driving her car, under her motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs M collided with two posts whilst driving her car. She reported this to 
Advantage, and it arranged for the car to be towed to its approved garage. Mrs M told it she 
needed a courtesy car as she is elderly with health issues and needs it for her 
independence. But she says a car wasnt provided until three days later. 
Mrs M says she collected her car at the beginning of February 2022, but she noticed the 
indicator lights and day-light werent working. Repairs were carried out the following day 
whilst she waited. Around a week later she says the car wouldnt start. An engineer was sent 
to start the car at Mrs Ms home. She says when the engineer turned the day-light on, the 
headlights came on instead and couldnt be turned off. 
Mrs M says a buzzing noise could be heard from the engine bay when it was turned off. The 
car was returned to the garage on a recovery truck. Mrs M says the horn started sounding 
when the car was loaded and couldnt be deactivated. She told the garage she could 
manage without a courtesy car if the repair was to take a couple of days. However, it took 
longer than this, and the garage wouldnt provide a courtesy car until Advantage approved 
the repairs. 
Mrs M says she was very upset at this time as it meant she couldnt go to buy food. She 
says after several more contacts with both the garage and Advantage she was eventually 
given a courtesy car. But this was two weeks after her car had been taken away to repair the 
electrical issues. She says she has been depressed and upset and has called her son in 
tears many times during this period.
Because the courtesy car was smaller than her car Mrs M says she had to buy a new dog 
car seat. 
Advantage says the initial courtesy car was provided a day outside its expected timeframes. 
It says Mrs M refused a courtesy car on the second occasion when her car experienced 
electrical issues. These repairs were expected to be assessed within three working days but 
there was a delay in authorising the repairs. This meant a courtesy car wasnt provided until 
14 days after Mrs Ms car was taken to its garage.  
Mrs Ms car was eventually repaired and returned to her in mid-March 2022. In its final 
complaint response Advantage offered £100 compensation. It accepts there was an eight-
day delay in providing a courtesy car, and says our service generally considers £10 per day 
acceptable compensation for this loss of use.  So, it thought its offer was fair. 
Mrs M didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld her complaint. He says there was a 17-day period over which Mrs M had no courtesy 
car. Advantage should pay £70 to recognise this. In addition, it should pay £200 to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor handling of the claim. 
Mrs M accepted this outcome. Advantage didnt. It says its terms provide for a courtesy car 
once repairs have been authorised, and whilst the car is being repaired. It maintains there 
was a period of eight days when it shouldve been providing a courtesy car and the 
remaining £20 is fair for Mrs M having to call the garage twice.
Because it didnt agree, Advantage asked for an ombudsman to consider Mrs Ms complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Let me explain. 
Firstly, Ive considered Mrs Ms complaint that she was without a courtesy car for a long 
period and this caused her a great deal of upset and inconvenience. Ive read her policy 
terms to understand what is expected to happen in these circumstances. The terms under 
the section entitled, About the replacement car service, say:
The replacement car will be provided by your Insurers Nominated Repairer
The service is only available while your car is being repaired.
The replacement car will usually be a group A vehicle, such as a Ford Ka.
In its submissions to our service Advantage says its terms provide for a replacement car 
once repairs have been authorised. I cant see that the terms say this. The terms say the 
replacement car will be provided whilst the car is being repaired.
Ive thought about what this should reasonably mean in Mrs Ms case. I think its reasonable 
for an insurer to be able to validate a claim, prior to repairs taking place. A courtesy car was 
provided on the third day after Mrs Ms car was collected after her accident. Advantage says 
this was one day outside of its expected response time. Had this been met I dont think this 
would be an unreasonable timeframe to provide the replacement car. But as it was the car 
was provided a day later than this, so I think its fair Advantage compensates Mrs M at the 
rate our service generally applies in these circumstances. This is to allow £10 per day for 
loss of use. 
On the occasion when there was an issue with the indicator and other lights, the repairs 
were completed while Mrs M waited  so there was no need for a courtesy car at this time. 
It was another week later when the car wouldnt start. It was jump-started at Mrs Ms home, 
but further issues occurred with the headlights that came on incorrectly and wouldnt turn off. 
The car was taken away that day  but a replacement car wasnt provided for another 14 
days. I accept Mrs M advised she wouldnt need a car when this was initially offered. But she 
said this on the understanding the repair would be completed much quicker than it was. 
Advantage acknowledges there was a delay of seven days in the repairs being authorised. 
Together with the one-day delay with the initial repair, it accepts its responsible for eight 
days of delay in providing a replacement car. I dont think this approach is fair. From what Ive seen the third lot of repairs were carried out 
as part of the original claim. This is something that shouldve been resolved when the repairs 
were carried out initially. I dont think its fair to expect Mrs M to wait on a further assessment 
and authorisation to be confirmed, before receiving a replacement car. In addition, Mrs M 
was under the impression this would be a much quicker fix than it turned out to be. I dont 
think she wouldve refused a replacement car had she known how long the repair would 
take. 
So, I think Advantage should pay Mrs M a total of £10 per day for 15 days loss of use of her 
car. This is for the initial one-day delay when the car was first taken for repairs, and 14 days 
for the later repair. As this is a change to the outcome, I let Mrs M and Advantage know, and 
asked for any comments before issuing my decision. Mrs M thought this was fair. Advantage 
didnt respond with any comments for me to consider.  
Ive also thought about the impact all of this had on Mrs M. She is elderly and describes 
having health issues that mean having a car is important to be able to get around and carry 
out everyday tasks. This includes grocery shopping. She explains how the lack of a car for 
such a long period was distressing for her. She approached her son for help to arrange for 
food to be delivered using an online service. But as he lives abroad there were technical 
limitations that prevented this. 
A certain amount of inconvenience is unavoidable in circumstances such as this. But Mrs 
Ms car had issues requiring repairs on two further occasions following the first repair. We 
expect Advantage to arrange for repairs to be carried out effectively. I dont think it achieved 
this in Mrs Ms case given two further repairs were necessary. This caused further distress 
and inconvenience for her. Given the issues she has described with her mobility, the lack of 
a replacement car affected her more severely than the average person.
Mrs M also describes having spent over five hours on the phone to Advantage and its 
garage. I note Advantage refers to Mrs M making far fewer calls. But I think its reasonable to 
accept that she spent a considerable period on the phone, in light of the multiple repairs that 
were required and the issues with the courtesy car. Because of this I agree with our 
investigator that the compensation Advantage offered is inadequate. I think £200 is fairer 
and more reflective of the distress and inconvenience Mrs M experienced. 
I acknowledge Mrs Ms comments that she would like a refund of her insurance premiums as 
she believes Advantage has breached the terms of her policy. I dont agree a refund is due. 
Advantage acted according to the terms of the policy in accepting Mrs Ms claim and in 
arranging and paying for the repairs to her car. 
Mrs M says she had to spend £23 on a dog car seat because the replacement car was a 
different size to her car. Im sorry she incurred this cost, but I cant see that this is something 
Mrs Ms policy covers or that its reasonable to expect Advantage to pay for this.
In summary I dont think Advantage treated Mrs M fairly when handling her claim. It should 
pay her £150 in total for the loss of use of her car, and £200 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience she was caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
should:
pay a total of £150 for the 15 days Mrs M was without a replacement car; andpay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman