DRN-2467131
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) incorrectly recorded information on his 
credit file.  
 
What happened
Mr Ws account was defaulted in May 2015. He satisfied the default by paying the full 
balance on 14 September 2015. However, Mr W contacted the credit reference agency in 
July 2018 when he realised his credit file didnt show the default as satisfied. They contacted 
HSBC on his behalf. HSBC responded in August 2018 and offered £150 compensation. 
HSBC said they had also conducted a soft search which showed there was no balance. 
In June 2019 Mr W complained to HSBC because a balance was showing on his credit file. 
HSBC responded in August 2019 and offered £200 for the trouble caused. They said they 
had taken the necessary steps to ensure the default was showing as satisfied. 
Mr W didnt accept HSBCs response and contacted us. The balance was showing 
incorrectly, and the investigator notified HSBC. It was corrected in February 2020. The 
investigator felt £200 compensation (in addition to the £150 already paid) was fair and 
reasonable. HSBC accepted this but Mr W didnt. 
HSBC subsequently increased their offer to £250. This was communicated to Mr W who 
didnt accept it. Therefore, it falls to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also considered the relevant rules and regulations.
HSBC sent a final demand letter in March 2015 in which they said they had sent a recent 
default notice. Mr W also seems to have been aware his account was defaulted. It seems, 
on balance, HSBC reasonably defaulted the account when it fell into arrears. 
However, Mr W paid the outstanding balance in full on 14 September 2015. At this point, 
according to industry guidance, the default should have been marked as satisfied with no 
outstanding balance.
 
Mr W complained about this in July 2018. Ive reviewed HSBCs internal memo and can see 
an amendment was requested promptly. HSBC wrote to Mr W in August 2018 and explained 
the information had been updated and a soft search had been carried out which showed 
there was no balance. Im persuaded by this that HSBC took steps to ensure the information 
was reporting correctly. 
Mr W also raised concerns about the balance showing in June 2019. Its not clear why the 
balance was reporting incorrectly. HSBCs internal memo requesting the amendment is 
dated 16 August 2019. This couldve been done sooner. But I do accept that a request was 
made. 
Mr W sent us a screenshot of his credit report in December 2019 which reported a balance 
on the account. Again, the exact reasons why a balance was showing are unclear. I have 
asked HSBC and they are also unsure. However, I recognise that information should be 
reporting correctly. The investigator contacted HSBC who then corrected the balance and it 
showed correctly in February 2020. 
Mr W is very unhappy about the effect the incorrect information has had on his applications 
for credit. For example, he says he unsuccessfully applied for credit on at least three 
occasions in 2019. As a result, he says HSBC has caused him a significant financial loss. 
I can appreciate his strength of feeling here especially where there was incorrect 
information. However, that doesnt mean Mr W would have been successful but for the 
wrong entry on his credit file. As the bank which declined his mortgage application in May 
2019 explained to him, lenders consider a range of factors. The mortgage application notes 
also outlined other adverse information on Mr Ws credit file. Additionally, a satisfied default 
can still have an impact on applications for credit.
 
Mr W successfully applied for a loan in May 2020 after the information was corrected. He 
also says it was for a lower interest rate than that advertised when he applied in 2019. That 
might suggest his 2019 application was affected by the balance HSBC reported as 
outstanding. However, I dont think its enough to be certain that this was the case; nor would 
I be able to say he was caused a financial loss.
 
Mr W has also sent a copy of a letter he received from HSBC on 11 December 2020 which 
he says supports his complaint and is an admission of liability. Noting Mr Ws comments, it 
doesnt ever appear to have been in dispute that HSBC got things wrong in terms of the 
information it reported on his credit file. I dont consider the letter in question offers any 
substantive reason for me to award the losses Mr W has claimed.
Putting things right
As above, I cant say the incorrect information caused Mr Ws applications for credit to be 
rejected. However, Mr W understandably experienced frustration. It has also taken time for 
the information to report correctly. This includes reporting the default to show as satisfied 
and correcting the balance. 
Mr W has received £150. Bearing this in mind, HSBC should pay Mr W £250 compensation. 
This amount, if accepted, would mean Mr W had received £400 compensation for the trouble 
and upset he has experienced which is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
HSBC didnt correctly report the default as satisfied with no balance when Mr W paid the 
outstanding amount. After this was corrected, the balance also showed incorrectly. Given the 
problems this caused to Mr W, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay him compensation of £400 in 
total, inclusive of any amounts they have already paid him in relation to this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 Laura Dean
Ombudsman