DRN-3262733
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) started charging interest on the 
overdraft facility he had on his graduate account without notifying him in advance.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mr Bs graduate terms were always due to expire before the start of the 2021 academic year. 
So Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to change the terms of Mr Bs account at this 
time. However, even though Santander was entitled to vary Mr Bs account, I would expect a 
bank doing this to provide a customer with notice of any changes in advance of them 
happening. 
Santander has provided information to show that it sent the required notification in advance 
of Mr Bs account changing. I know Mr B says he didnt receive any letters. But the letters 
were correctly addressed using Mr Bs address details. So while its possible Mr B may not 
have received the letters, or paid much attention perhaps because he didnt realise the 
significance at the time, Santander did what it was required to. And I dont think it acted 
unfairly as it appears to have taken reasonable steps to notify Mr B that hed have to start 
paying to use an overdraft. 
That said, even though Santander notified Mr B of the upcoming changes to his account in 
advance of them happening, it still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr B if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Bs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr B was experiencing financial 
difficulty. So Ive considered whether Santander charged Mr B even though it knew he was 
in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the case. 
Ive looked through the account ledgers provided. And I cant see that Santander ought to 
have been aware that Mr B might have been struggling in the period leading up to the 
account change. Mr B did use his overdraft. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective 
value judgements over Mr B expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going from the account.  
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr B wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted Santander to potential financial difficulty and which meant that it 
would have been fair and reasonable not to have applied the charges here. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr B, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for Santander to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
And I dont think Santander charged Mr B in circumstances where it ought to have realised 
that it was unfair to do so. As this is the case and I think that Santander took reasonable 
steps to notify Mr B that it would be charging him to use an overdraft, Im not upholding      
Mr Bs complaint.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr B  especially as it has taken 
sometime for his complaint to reach this stage. But I hope hell understand the reasons for 
my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman