DRN-4143348
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs Y complain that Lifes Great Limited trading as Mojo Mortgages (Mojo) didnt 
treat them fairly when they asked it to arrange a mortgage for their new home. 
What happened
Mr D and Mrs Y applied for a mortgage for their new home with Mojo acting as their broker. 
The application process was started in May 2022 and Mr D and Mrs Y received a decision in 
principle for an offer for a mortgage with a high-street lender Ill refer to as Company A.
Mr D and Mrs Y said it was difficult to speak with their adviser from Mojo and by the middle 
of June they still had  not received confirmation that everything had gone through to secure 
the rate theyd been offered. They tried to speak with the adviser at different points but were 
unsuccessful.
On 6 July Mojo let Mr D and Mrs Y know that Company A had declined the application. They 
said there was no other information provided for the reason. 
Mr D and Mrs Y contacted Company A directly to ask why the application had been declined. 
They were informed this was because the application had been waiting for information 
requested from Mojo and when this hadnt been received, it had been declined. 
Mr D and Mrs Y secured a mortgage with Company A but through another broker and they 
feel this demonstrates Mojo failed to do what it needed to with their application. They feel it 
has been dishonest about the reason for the declined application and its actions have meant 
they are financially worse off. The initial mortgage rate they were offered was a rate of 
3.05%, the rate they secured with the second broker was 3.79% and they would like Mojo to 
cover the difference with the cost of this rate for the two years it would be fixed for.
Mojo said it hadnt done anything wrong and the information that Company A said it was 
waiting on had not been requested sooner. The first time they had been asked to get this 
was on 6 July before being told the application had been declined. They didnt think it was 
fair to expect them to refund the difference in the higher rate as they dont think they are 
responsible for the original application being declined.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and spoke with Company A to gather information 
from it as a third party.  He didnt think Mojo had done anything wrong from reviewing this 
information. He was satisfied Company A had not requested the same information that it did 
on 6 July before this date and previous requests for information had been complied with and 
uploaded to its portal. And when Mojo called Company A at various different points, it 
provided information about the application being referred for a review but never explained 
that information was outstanding in relation to this. Because of this he didnt think Mojo could 
be said to have caused the decline by failing to do what it should have.
Mr D and Mrs Y disagreed. They repeated their belief that Mojo must have caused the delay 
and decline based on their experience of the service received and because Company A did 
lend to them when another broker took over.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
appreciate that Mr D and Mrs Y will be disappointed by this and they feel strongly that Mojo 
has done something wrong. But Ill explain why Im satisfied this is not the case.
Mr D and Mrs Y feel that getting a new mortgage with Company A so soon after the declined 
application that Mojo was making on their behalf is clear evidence of it doing something 
wrong. This is understandable and I can see why they have this belief, but I am afraid it is 
not supported by the information provided.
The correspondence from Company A and Mojo shows that it did not, prior to 6 July request 
the information it said was out standing from May 2022. And the notes show that when 
information was requested from Company A at different points, Mojo uploaded this to the 
portal system and this was generally within a reasonable time and I cannot see anything to 
show it didnt do what it was asked to. Nor have I seen anything which would demonstrate its  
actions would have likely resulted in the decline.
Company A may believe it did ask for information previously but this isnt what appears to 
have happened. And together with the email correspondence, when Mojo called to see what 
was happening with the application, Company A failed to say information was outstanding.
So simply put, Im not persuaded it would be fair to say that Mojo was responsible for the 
application being declined. I think theyve given Mr D and Mrs Y correct information about 
the application and I see no reason to ask it to do anything else in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr D and Mrs Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman