DRN-4149460
The complaint
Mr G complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank was irresponsible 
in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr G was provided with a Tesco Bank credit card in January 2020. The initial credit limit was 
£3,800 and this hasnt been increased. Mr G doesnt think that adequate checks were 
carried out before the credit card was provided and says he had lots of debt at the time. He 
says he is making his minimum repayments, but this leaves him with minimal money and his 
financial situation is causing him stress.
Tesco Bank says before this lending was agreed a credit check was carried out which 
showed Mr G had no bankruptcies, county court judgments or individual voluntary 
arrangements. It said he had a good credit score and while he had medium indebtedness 
and debt to income ratio this was within its limits. Tesco Bank said that Mr G passed the 
affordability checks with a net disposable income of £197. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and our investigator considered his case. Our 
investigator found that the checks carried out by Tesco Bank showed Mr G had a significant 
amount of existing credit commitments. He noted that Tesco Bank used a figure of 3% for 
working out Mr Gs monthly credit card repayment but didnt think this was a sustainable 
figure. He thought it more reasonable to use a figure of 5%. Based on this amount he said 
the lending wasnt affordable. Because of this he didnt think that Tesco Bank should have 
opened the credit card account and said it therefore shouldnt be able to charge interest or 
charges under the credit agreement. He did think it reasonable that Mr G repay the amount 
he had borrowed.
Tesco Bank didnt agree with our investigators view. It said the uphold was based on the 
percentage figure used for repayments under Mr Gs credit facilities. It said that no 
consideration had been given to how Mr Gs account had been managed which showed 
Mr G made repayments above the minimum required amounts including three large 
repayments. It said there werent signs that Mr G couldnt afford to repay his borrowing. It 
said that its assessment included inflated expenditure figures and still showed Mr G had 
sufficient net disposable income.
Mr G responded to our investigators view saying that he would be seeking compensation on 
top of any refunds due to the stress he had been caused by the lending. He said he had 
needed to take time off work due to this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to 
carry out, it just needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: 
the type and amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total 
cost of the credit and the consumers circumstances.
Before the credit card was provided, Tesco Bank carried out a credit check and gathered 
information about Mr Gs income, housing costs and existing credit commitments. I have 
looked at the results of Tesco Banks credit check and looked at the copy of the credit report 
Mr G has provided. These do not raise concerns about how Mr G was managing his existing 
credit commitments. Mr G was an existing customer of Tesco Bank and had a loan 
outstanding with it. There were no repayment issues on this loan. Given this I do not find that 
Mr Gs management of his finances raised concerns that meant the credit card shouldnt 
have been provided.
But just because I think the checks were proportionate it doesnt necessarily mean that I 
consider the lending was fair. I have therefore considered what the gathered information 
showed. 
Mr Gs monthly income was recorded as £1,950. His mortgage costs were £490, and his 
living costs were estimated at £510. I note Tesco Banks comments about the expenditure 
figure being inflated but I have no evidence of this and as it was happy to use the 
expenditure figure, I find it reasonable to include this in my assessment. 
Mr G had debt outstanding (excluding his mortgage) totalling just under £22,000 (£7,987 in a 
Tesco Bank loan and £13,966 in revolving credit). His monthly loan repayments were £186. 
Tesco Bank applied a repayment amount of 3% to Mr Gs revolving credit balance and when 
it included the repayments on the new credit card this left Mr G with net disposable income 
of £197. Our investigator thought it more reasonable to use 5% for the repayment amounts 
(to allow the amounts to be paid down) on the revolving credit which would then mean the 
new credit card lending wasnt affordable.
In this case I think that the affordability checks raise concerns. Mr Gs repayments on his 
existing credit commitments (excluding his mortgage) based on Tesco Banks calculations at 
the time of his credit card application accounted for over 30% of his monthly income and this 
increased to over 38% when the new credit card limit is included. While this did still leave 
some disposable income, this was less than £200 a month. Mr G was utilising 71% of his 
existing credit lines at the time of his application and if the assessment had been made on 
the amount of credit available to him (that is 100% utilisation) this would leave Mr G with 
minimal disposable income after the new lending was provided. Likewise, an increase in the 
repayment amounts used to enable Mr G to start reducing the balances on his revolving 
credit would have suggested the credit card with £3,800 limit wasnt sustainably affordable. 
Given the limited disposable income and noting the increase the additional lending would 
have on Mr Gs total indebtedness, I do not think that Tesco Bank should have considered 
the credit card sustainably affordable for Mr G. Mr G has asked for compensation for the 
stress this issue has caused him. While I note the comments made, in this case Mr G was 
provided with a credit card he applied for and while I have found this shouldnt have been 
provided, I find the fair resolution is for him to not be required to pay any interest or charges 
on the money lent. I do not think in this case that additional compensation is required. Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco Bank ought to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mr G 
should pay back the amounts he has borrowed. Therefore, Tesco Bank should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr G along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. Tesco Bank should also remove all adverse information regarding 
this account from Mr Gs credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Tesco Bank should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr G for the remaining amount. Once 
Mr G has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account 
should be removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman