DRN-3423232
The complaint
Mr F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd closed his account without notice. He wants his funds 
released and compensation.
What happened
Mr F had an account with Monzo.
Monzo restricted the account on 3 December 2020 in order to carry out a review of the 
account. After the review Monzo decided to close the account without notice.
The funds remaining in the account were returned on 22 December 2020 to an account Mr F 
nominated. In addition, £119.80 were returned to Mr F on 5 January 2021.
Mr F has said that his salary was paid into this account and having no access to money for 
20 days was very difficult for him.
Mr F complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. He 
thought Monzo had acted fairly when they blocked and closed Mr Fs account. 
Mr F was unhappy with the view. He said holding someones money for 20 days couldnt be 
right. He said that Monzo had charged him for two months worth of fees when the account 
was blocked.
The investigator asked Mr F to provide evidence of him being charged fees when the 
account was blocked.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Fs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Monzo were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Fs account. 
I can see that in blocking the account the bank was following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say Monzo was unfair when it blocked the account. 
I appreciate the block meant Mr F didnt have access to his funds for around 20 days and I 
know this was difficult for him. However, as Monzo havent done anything wrong when they 
blocked Mr Fs account, I wont be asking them to pay compensation.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive first considered whether Monzo acted fairly when it closed Mr Fs account. Mr F has 
pointed out that he has been a loyal customer of Monzo for many years and that the closure 
of his account has caused him a lot of problems and stress. Im sorry that whats happened 
has caused Mr F trouble and upset. But its generally for banks to decide whether or not they 
want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. 
Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must 
keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of his account. The terms and conditions outline 
that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Monzo closed Mr Fs 
account without notice. For Monzo to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply 
their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence 
Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close the 
account as its already done. 
Reasons for closure 
Whilst Mr F may have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Monzo isnt required 
to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Monzo has done 
anything wrong by not giving Mr F this information  as much as hed like to know.
Return of funds
I can see from the file that Monzo refunded Mr F his funds to an account nominated by him. 
So, Im satisfied Mr F has received his funds.
Fees charged whilst account was blocked
Mr F has mentioned that he was charged fees whilst the account was blocked. I have looked 
at the statements for his account and I cant see that he was charged any fees. 
Despite being given the opportunity to do so, Mr F hasnt been able to show what fees he is 
referring to, so I think on balance Mr F wasnt charged any fees whilst the account was 
blocked. And I wont be asking Monzo to do anything here.
In summary, I recognise Mr F feels unhappy about the block and closure of his account. I 
realise Mr F will be disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I cant say Monzo has acted unreasonably and treated Mr F unfairly when it blocked 
and closed his account. It follows I wont be asking them to pay compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman