DRN-3800744
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zopa Limited trading as Zopa (Zopa) marked his loan as in arrears; and 
hassled him.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr S borrowed £10,000 on a loan from Zopa. Total repayable was 
£13,378.59 at £371.63 each month. Payments were due 1st monthly. During the pandemic, 
Zopa agreed to a three-month payment holiday under the FCAs pandemic support scheme. 
Mr S didnt want to pay by direct debit and on 27 February 2022, paid £375 manually. This 
continued to be how Mr S made the repayments until he complained in July 2022. Zopa 
treated the manual payment as an early repayment to the loan, and not a contractual 
payment. So  they marked Mr S loan as being one month in arrears. As he continued to 
pay that way, his loan remained one month in arrears.
Mr S complained. He said he had made the payment, so couldnt understand how his loan 
was in arrears. He didnt want to sign a direct debit form which had no set amount on it  as 
he was concerned that Zopa could take any amount from his bank account. He was now 
getting numerous phone calls, texts, and emails about the arrears. He said he received 97 
calls from Zopa between 8 March 2022 and 13 July 2022. There were also about 30 emails 
and numerous text messages. He says this was unreasonable hassle. He also tried to log 
two complaints and they werent actioned. In December 2022, Zopa emailed him about the 
payments due relating to his payment holiday and he wanted this adding to his complaint.
Zopa said that their process was  where a manual payment was received ahead of the 
contractual payment date (1st monthly), then it was treated as an extra payment and not a 
contractual one. That meant the contractual payment wasnt made on 1 March 2022. And 
from then on, even though Mr S made manual payments monthly, his loan remained one 
month in arrears  by £371.63.  The only way they could stop the arrears position was to 
reinstate the direct debit, or for Mr S to make an extra manual payment to clear the arrears 
in one go. If he did this they offered to clear his credit file which had arrears/missed 
payments markers. 
Zopa apologised that on two occasions, Mr S complaint wasnt logged and escalated for 
investigation. They apologised for the contacts made with Mr S  but they were only 
intended to advise him of the arrears position. They offered compensation of £50.
Mr S didnt accept the compensation and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said 
Zopa didnt act reasonably. Mr S made the payment on 27 February 2022 with the intention 
that it was for the payment due on 1 March 2022. He didnt think it was fair that Zopa then 
marked his loan as in arrears, nor mark his credit file with missed payments. He thought 
Zopa couldve resolved the issue earlier by explaining to Mr S how the process worked. 
Zopa couldve offered to change the repayment date but didnt.  If that had happened, then 
the contacts to Mr S by email, text and phone wouldnt have been needed. He said that Mr 
S credit file should be amended and compensation of £250 paid (to include the £50 offered 
by Zopa).
Mr S accepted what our investigator said, but Zopa didnt. they said their process was as 
they said in their final response and theyd already made proposals to Mr S as to how he 
could proceed. They said the compensation recommended was too high and said this should 
be £100. In response, Mr S then said the compensation should be increased from £250.
And so  the complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa has followed their processes here, but strictly following a procedure or process can 
lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual circumstances of their situation. I 
think thats whats happened here.
Zopa say it was their process to count the manual payment of £375 made by Mr S on 27 
February 2022 as an early payment to his loan  an extra payment. And not the contractual 
payment which was due on 1 March 2022. As a result, they considered that Mr S missed the 
March payment and his loan went into arrears. This was notified to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs), and his loan had been one month in arrears ever since. 
Its clear that the payment on 27 February 2022 was intended by Mr S to be the payment 
due on 1 March 2022. And I can see that in the previous few months, starting in September 
2021, he also paid the loan instalments in that way. Its not clear to me why the prior months 
payments didnt also cause a problem  but thats not the crux of this complaint.
Mr S called Zopa on 2 March 2022 and I listened to the call. Its clear that Mr S wanted the 
payment to be for the 1 March 2022 instalment. But the call handler didnt or couldnt take 
any action to mark the loan as paid to date. And Mr S then asked that a complaint be 
opened. He called again on 4 March 2022 and a similar conversation took place. In neither 
case was a complaint successfully opened or dealt with  if it had been, possibly a resolution 
couldve been found.
I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect Zopa to have marked Mr Ss loan as not in 
arrears, and count the manual payment in question  and the subsequent ones in the next 
few months through to July 2022  as being the contractual payments. Either the call 
handlers or Zopas complaints team could presumably have done that. I dont think it was 
reasonable for Zopa to ask Mr S to make a further payment of £371.63 so his loan could be 
considered as paid to date  as they suggested in their final response. 
And so  this final decision asks Zopa to find a way to do this. Ideally, this would be for Mr S 
to agree to sign a direct debit mandate  but I suspect he wont be happy to do that. And if 
he wants to continue with his manual payments; Zopa will need to find a way to consider his 
loan as paid to date each month when he makes a manual payment.
As a result of the loan being one month in arrears, Zopa sent Mr S many emails, texts and 
made many calls to him. He says these number 97 calls, and 30 emails between March 
2022 and July 2022, plus many text messages. All these couldve been avoided if Zopa had 
acted as Ive suggested. And as it was, Mr S considered these to be unreasonable  with 
which I agree. Zopa say they were system generated  but the number of contacts does 
seem excessive to me  although I would add that weve not validated the numbers with 
Zopa.Ive listened to the calls between Mr S and Zopa on 2 March 2022, 4 March 2022, and 18 
May 2022. And while I can accept that Mr S was frustrated, allow me to say that Mr S 
aggressive and foul language wouldnt have helped his case, or to get matters resolved.
The other context here is the FCAs payment holiday scheme. To be clear, in April 2020, The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects 
on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Zopa, had to put in place 
payment holidays on many credit agreements, including personal loans  to help customers 
who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three 
months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments were not counted as 
arrears and would not be reported to credit reference agencies (CRAs), although interest 
would still be debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of 
October 2020. 
Mr S had a payment holiday for three months in 2020. The missed payments were noted by 
Zopa (and they told us this) but they werent counted as arrears or reported to the CRAs. But 
 eventually, those payments must be made up, and by agreement between the lender 
(Zopa) and Mr S. And so here  the email that Zopa sent to Mr S in December 2022 is 
correct  Zopa are asking Mr S to set up an agreement to pay off the suspended payments 
which total £1,035.55, or three payments of £345.18. The email gives alternative ways for Mr 
S to pay this  and he should contact Zopa to do this.
Putting things right
I think its reasonable to ask Zopa to treat Mr S manual payments as contractual ones, and 
to find a way to do that. Ideally, Id encourage Mr S to sign a direct debit mandate  but Im 
assuming he wont do that  but it should be considered by both himself and Zopa.
Zopa should delete the missed payment marks from Mr S credit file from March 2020 to 
date.
Because of what happened, I can see that Mr S suffered a lot of distress and inconvenience. 
He says he received many calls and emails  which I accept. Our service has set out some 
criteria for deciding the level of awards. We say an award up to £300 might be suitable 
where there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a 
reasonable effort to sort out. Typically, the businesss actions could have resulted in some 
acute stress lasting hours at the lower end  or a have had a milder impact across a few 
days, or even weeks. I think that Mr S experience fits these criteria, and therefore the 
proposed award of £250 is confirmed.
The request for Mr S to make up the suspended payments from the covid payment holiday is 
a valid one from Zopa and Mr S should comply with this. (continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Zopa Limited must:
Work with Mr S to find a satisfactory way to mark his manual payments to the loan as 
contractual payments.
Delete the missed payments marks from Mr S credit file.
Pay compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman