DRN-2672977
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled her car 
insurance claim which led to her being given a County Court Judgement (CCJ). Miss L is 
unhappy with Advantages £300 compensation offer for the trouble and upset it caused her.  
What happened
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She said Advantages handling of 
the claim caused Miss L unnecessary anxiety, so it should pay £700 for the trouble and 
upset it had caused. She said Advantages handling of the claim led to the third-party 
insurers solicitors pursing Miss L with threatening letters about court action and this 
eventually led to a CCJ being put against her name. She said Miss L had been depressed 
and suffered from anxiety and had to take time off work due to the stress of attending court 
and dealing with the threatening letters. 
Advantage disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said it was prepared to pay 
£500 to Miss L. It added its offer took into consideration the trouble and upset Miss L had 
experienced and it hadnt seen any evidence that Miss L had been affected financially by the 
CCJ. So, it felt £700 was excessive. 
Miss L said she didnt accept the £500 offer from Advantage. She feels Advantage should 
pay her £1500. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence that both Miss L and Advantage have provided here. 
And in particular Ive taken into account the affect this matter has had on Miss L personally. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that Advantage should pay her £700 for the 
trouble and upset its caused here. 
Miss L had to instruct her own solicitor to help her resolve the CCJ issue after Advantage 
failed to contact the third-party solicitor to confirm the claim had been settled. This led to a 
CCJ being issued against Miss L. Advantage has said it wasnt necessary for Miss L to 
instruct a solicitor, but I can understand why Miss L felt it was necessary to seek some 
additional legal advice given the letters she received and the court action she faced. 
I note Miss L had to take time off work due to the stress she was under and had the 
understandable anxiety and stress of being pursued and then issued with a CCJ against her 
name. I believe any customer would find these circumstances extremely worrying and 
difficult to deal with. But especially so if youve previously suffered from depression. 
Ive seen that Miss L chased Advantage numerous times for an update on her claim and the 
valuation of her car. Having reviewed the timeline, Im satisfied Miss L spent more time on 
the phone than Id consider was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
I agree with the investigator that due to the trouble and upset Miss L has suffered and taking 
into account her personal circumstances, Advantage should pay her £700. This amount 
seems reasonable to me and in line with what Id expect in similar cases. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay Miss L £700 for the trouble and upset it 
caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman