DRN-3976877
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with Euroins AD because it declined his claim.
What happened
Mr K had travel insurance with Euroins. He was on holiday in Spain when his car was broken 
into and his luggage was stolen. Mr K claimed on his policy however his claim was declined 
because he was unable to provide the original receipts for the items he was claiming for. The 
overall claim was around £3,500 and hed like Euroins to pay this in full. Mr K would also like 
compensation for the time taken to review his claim as he said this was excessive. 
Euroins said it was entitled to validate Mr Ks claim and part of that process involves it 
considering the original receipts issued at the time of purchase. It acknowledged Mr K had 
sent screen grabs of delivery confirmation emails and some photos of the original receipts, 
however, it requested the originals as proof of purchase. It highlighted that when asked to 
send this information, Mr K responded saying hed rather keep the original receipts rather 
than share this with the insurer. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said Euroins handled Mr Ks claim fairly by 
requesting the original receipts and so didnt think it had done anything wrong. He also didnt 
consider the time taken to deal with the claim to be excessive in the circumstances. 
Mr K disagreed with this and requested an ombudsman to consider his case. In summary, 
he said he no longer has the original receipts as he threw them away. He explained that 
because Euroins didnt come back to him in good time, he thought they were no longer 
needed. Mr K also said some of the items were bought as gifts by one of his friends and that 
they too no longer have the original receipts. And so, its now for me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive also decided not to uphold it and for mainly the same reasons. Euroins 
is entitled to validate claims by requesting evidence to reasonably establish ownership of the 
items being claimed. There are relevant terms, which Ill go on to highlight, but having 
carefully considered Euroins position, I dont consider it to be unreasonable or unfair. I say 
that because Im satisfied that its acted in line with the policy terms to decline Mr Ks claim. 
Ill explain why.
Mr K submitted his claim in January 2021, a few days after returning from his holiday. Ive 
considered the claims forms and I note the covering letter says;
The relevant documents detailed below  should be sent in support of your claim. Please 
note, we may need to ask for further evidence once weve had the opportunity to review your 
claim
 Evidence to support your personal effects claims  original purchase receipts.
Ive highlighted this because Mr K said that he was unaware hed need to retain such 
documents. He explained had Euroins responded to his claim sooner, then hed have still 
had the original sales receipts and hed have been able to send them. Mr K said that hed 
discarded the receipts in the months between sending his claim form to Euroins and when it 
eventually acknowledged his claim. But Im not persuaded by that because Im satisfied the 
cover letter sent by Euroins when it sent the claims form advised Mr K should retain any 
original purchase receipts. And so, I find it unusual that Mr K decided to throw them away, 
especially whilst his claim was under review. 
The items Mr K claimed for were of particularly high-value and so I think it unusual he is not 
in a position to produce any proof of ownership for any of the items he claimed for. Ive 
considered the terms of the policy which says;
All receipts must be retained and produced in the event of a claim. Your claim may be 
rejected if receipts are not produced And;
You must cooperate with us and provide us with any documentation or information we ask 
for, to evaluate your claim or to seek reimbursement from a third party. We will not pay any 
claim unless you cooperate with us
Ive highlighted these terms because I think they clearly set out Euroins position about 
whats required when it assesses claims. Ive considered this against the information its 
requested from Mr K and Im satisfied its acted in accordance with the policy terms. 
Therefore, I dont think its acting unfairly by requesting that Mr K produce the original 
receipts for the items hes claiming.
I also noted when Euroins initially requested this information, Mr K refused to share it with 
the insurer because he wanted to keep the original receipts. I think this highly unusual given 
those items had been stolen and so I cannot see why Mr K would want to retain this 
evidence, given it was needed for his claim to succeed. In any event, Mr K said he no longer 
has this information and without it, hes unable to supply the evidence thats needed by 
Euroins to validate his claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman