DRN-2711589
The complaint
Mr E and Ms M complain about the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) handed their 
travel insurance claim. 
Mr E and Ms M are represented, but for ease I will refer to all submissions as being 
made by them directly. Any reference to URV within this decision includes its agents, 
and/or those acting on its behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. 
Briefly, Mr E and Ms M had an annual travel insurance policy with URV. 
A claim for medical assistance was made on the policy after Ms M fell and fractured her 
ankle whilst on holiday. She was taken to hospital at the time and treated as an outpatient. 
Mr E provided URV with a copies of a medical report and an accident report. But he had to 
contact URV multiple times for updates before it arranged their repatriation four days later. 
Mr E and Ms M said URV had taken too long to bring them home. URV acknowledged it 
hadnt provided a good level of service, and offered £250 compensation which 
Mr E and Ms M accepted. URV also went on to settle their medical fees and unused holiday 
costs. 
Mr E and Ms M raised further concerns once back in the UK about the way URV had 
handled matters. Briefly, they said URV had failed to ensure Ms M was given an 
anticoagulant prior to flying home, and shed been diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT) in the UK which had been exacerbated by URVs failings and its decision to put her on 
a flight. They also said Ms M qualified for an accidental bodily injury payment, the policy 
illegally restricted them from using a solicitor of their choosing, and URV had failed to 
respond to requests for information from their solicitor. 
URV maintained its position and said its offer of £250 had been appropriate in the 
circumstances. So, having approached this service, one of our investigators looked at what 
had happened. She said:
The £250 was reasonable given the level of service URV had provided at that point. 
The available evidence suggested URV hadnt assessed the medical report 
appropriately or checked Ms Ms fitness to fly, but it didnt indicate its actions or the 
flight back to the UK was a contributing factor to the DVT. 
Mr E and Ms M experienced significant distress and deep upset when they learned 
what URV hadnt done however, and URV should pay an additional £600 
compensation to recognise that. 
The personal accident claim had been declined fairly because Ms M didnt satisfy the 
policy terms. Similarly, the terms in relation to legal expenses were clear. 
URV hadnt provided the solicitor with the information it had been asked for. That was 
regrettable, but Mr E and Ms M were still able to refer their concerns to this service. 
And this service was unable to take their solicitors inconvenience into account. 
URV agreed with our investigators recommendations but Mr E and Ms M did not. They set 
out their disagreement at length, but in summary said our investigator had wrongly made a 
finding on causation. They said Ms Ms DVT was caused by the lack of medical care URV 
provided and exacerbated by the flight which she should not have been put on. They also 
said our investigator hadnt applied the correct test when considering matters and explained 
they were seeking additional costs from URV. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E and Ms M have set out their position at great length. It is clear they feel very strongly, 
but I will not be addressing every point or argument that has been put forward. Instead, I will 
focus my findings on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and regulations, URV had a responsibility to handle Mr E and 
Ms Ms claim both promptly and fairly and to not reject it unreasonably. 
The compensation already provided 
Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a businesss 
mistake has had on someone. It is not disputed that following their request for assistance, 
URV didnt provide Mr E and Ms M with the level of service they should have expected. And 
I have thought about whether or not the £250 it offered in recognition of that fairly reflected 
the impact of its action at the time.
Following Ms Ms fall, Mr E was prompt in providing URV with the documentation it had 
requested. That information included a medical report which had been produced by the 
hospital where Ms M was seen. And an accident report which detailed the circumstances 
surrounding the fall. URV did not seek further information about Ms Ms health in the days 
that followed receipt of those documents however. And I am aware that Mr E made multiple 
attempts at contacting URV for updates on the situation and its plans.
URV arranged Ms Ms repatriation four days after her fall. But I dont think it was right, or fair, 
for Mr E to have needed to contact URV for responses and updates on its progress. And I 
appreciate that having had to do so exacerbated the upset, worry and concern that was 
already being experienced following Ms Ms fall. 
So I think it was right for URV to compensate Mr E and Ms M, and I am satisfied that £250 
was a fair reflection of the impact of its actions on them prior to repatriation.
The DVT
As Mr E and Ms M are already aware, the role of this service is not to diagnose a medical 
condition or make a finding on causation. Instead this service will consider all the available 
medical evidence and decide whether or not a business (in this complaint, URV) has dealt 
with a claim fairly.  Mr E and Ms M have explained that URV did not ensure Ms M received the appropriate 
medical treatment following her fall, and they think that her DVT diagnosis was exacerbated 
by URVs decision to put her on a flight. 
Our investigator has already highlighted that the terms of Mr E and Ms Ms policy which set 
out that, in the event of serious emergency, it will not always be possible to return home 
immediately following injury or illness but:
You will be able to return home when the assistance service considers it safe, in 
conjunction with your doctor, and airline regulations have been met. Sometimes you will 
need to stay in resort for a while longer before returning home, so the assistance team will 
arrange additional accommodation for you.
However, having looked at what did happen following Ms Ms fall, Im not persuaded that 
URV took steps to satisfy itself that it considered it safe for Ms M to return home. Thats not 
a finding to say that it was not safe for her to return, but URV made no further enquiries into 
Ms Ms condition after receiving copies of the medical and accident reports. And no fit to fly 
certificate was sought by URV ether. 
Ive thought about the timeline in this complaint too, and note that URV arranged repatriation 
four days after Ms Ms fall. So I think it had time to seek further information about Ms M prior 
to bringing her home, and I agree that it did not act in line with its policy terms here. 
Still, Im not persuaded that I can fairly conclude the evidence in this complaint demonstrates 
that URVs actions led to, or exacerbated, Ms Ms diagnosis of DVT upon return to the UK.
I am aware of the wider evidence Mr E and Ms M have provided which details, for example, 
the risk factors surrounding DVT. But when I consider the evidence specific to Ms M  so, 
the evidence which has been produced by those involved in her care and diagnosis  Im not 
persuaded that I can make the finding that Mr E and Ms M are seeking. 
The Orthopaedic Medical Report to the Court (which is dated 6 August 2020 and prepared 
by a consultant orthopaedic surgeon) sets out that, in the consultants opinion, the DVT 
diagnosis was causally linked to the index accident. However, there is no reference to the 
flight or lack of anticoagulant causing, being linked to, or exacerbating the DVT. And there is 
no reference to this being the case within the various NHS letters that Mr E and Ms M have 
provided either.   
The above is in no way intended to take away from the strength of feeling Mr E and Ms M 
have about this aspect of their complaint  and I think they are right to feel let down by URV. 
But Im not persuaded I can fairly conclude that URV should be held responsible for the DVT 
or any exacerbation of it. I realise Mr E and Ms M will likely be further disappointed by this, 
but I hope they can understand why I am unable to reach this finding. 
However, I do appreciate that realising what had happened once they were back in the UK 
would have caused both Mr E and Ms M great upset, concern and anger. And I agree that 
URV should compensate them to recognise this too.    
Again, compensation is designed to be both a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact 
a businesss mistake has had on someone. It is not intended to be punitive, and so it is 
important that any award I make reflects that. 
I am satisfied that the earlier £250 sufficiently reflected the impact of URVs actions on Mr E 
and Ms M pre-repatriation. But I am not persuaded that amount also accounts for how URVs 
actions made Mr E and Ms M feel once theyd been repatriated and had learned more about what had happened. 
Mr E and Ms M should have been able to rely on the level of assistance URV should have 
provided, and they were greatly impacted when they realised what had actually happened. 
So, for these reasons and the reasons given above, I too think an additional £600 represents 
a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact of URVs actions.  
The personal accidental payment
The personal accident terms of Mr E and Ms Ms policy set out that URV will pay a single 
payment, of up to £15,000, for:
your accidental bodily injury whilst on your trip, that independently of any other cause, 
results in your:
total and permanent loss of sight in on or both eyes, or total loss by physical 
severance or total and permanent loss of use of one or both hands or feet.
Mr E and Ms M have argued that Ms M is eligible for this payment as she totally and 
permanently lost the use of her foot for the remainder of their holiday following her fall. I 
appreciate the argument that has been put forward here, but I am not persuaded the 
available evidence supports it. 
The medical report completed at the time of Ms Ms fall set out that she should follow a 
resting regime, keep her foot elevated, and walk with the help of crutches. It didnt indicate 
that shed lost the permanent use of her foot. And there is no reference to Ms M having lost 
the permanent use of her foot in the other medical evidence that has been made available to 
this service. So I dont think Ms M did satisfy the personal accident terms of the policy, and it 
follows that I dont think it was unreasonable of URV to decline this aspect of the claim. 
The legal expenses
Mr E and Ms M have argued that URVs policy illegally restricts them in being able to use a 
solicitor of their choosing. The terms of Mr E and Ms Ms policy set out the following:
Legal expenses claims are only considered on the condition that you use [xxx] as your legal 
representative and they will always have complete control over the legal proceedings and 
the selection, appointment and control of lawyers. Where a claim occurs, you will supply any 
reports or information and proof to us and the claims office as may be required. Any legal 
expenses incurred without our prior authorisation or that the claims office will not be paid.
I acknowledge the evidence that Mr E and Ms M have provided to support their position. 
However, as our investigator rightly set out, the regulations they have sought to rely on do 
not apply to cover where the principal object of the contract is to provide assistance in the 
event of the insured falling into difficulties while travelling or away from home. 
The principle object of Mr E and Ms Ms travel insurance policy was to provide assistance in 
the event that they fell into difficulties while travelling, and the terms of their policy set out the 
conditions which applied to the legal expenses cover that may be available to them. So, 
given the above, and that Mr E and Ms Ms legal expenses were not incurred in line those 
terms, I cannot fairly conclude that URV should be liable for them. 
The lack of response to Mr E and Ms Ms solicitor
URV did not provide the information that Mr E and Ms Ms solicitor had requested. I accept that, and I accept their solicitor made a number of attempts to get URV to provide it. Having 
to do so was, I suspect, both frustrating and inconvenient for the solicitor.
However, as has already been explained, Mr E and Ms Ms solicitor was not party to the 
contract of insurance with URV. And this service is unable to consider the impact URVs 
actions had on them in their capacity as Mr E and Ms Ms representative. 
I do however find it disappointing that URV did not provide the information that had been 
requested from it at the time. 
Putting things right
To put things right I am directing URV to pay an additional £600, I find this amount 
represents a fair and proportionate way of reflecting the impact its actions had on Mr E and 
Ms M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Union Reiseversicherung AG must pay an 
additional £600 in compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman