DRN-3387540
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (AIL) declined a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr P has dealt with the complaint, so Ill refer to him only. Reference to AIL includes its 
agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr P bought a house in 2020 and took out insurance for it with AIL at the same time.
Later that year he noticed new cracks developing and got in touch with AIL.
It initially said the claim was declined because, when taking out the policy, Mr P 
hadnt made it aware of previous structural problems. Mr P provided information to 
show he had declared these problems when taking out the policy.
AIL then said the claim was declined because the policy doesnt cover any pre-
existing or maintenance related defects. It said the homebuyers survey report 
showed the property needed several areas attending to, including some cracks.
Mr P explained why he thought the property was generally in a good state of repair. 
AIL maintained the claim was declined, so Mr P referred his complaint to this service.
AIL stood by its position and told us it also thought the cost of the work was below 
the excess of £2,500. So, it wouldnt cover the claim in any case.
Our investigator thought AIL had fairly declined the claim because it had provided a 
schedule of work valued below the excess.
Mr P didnt agree. He thought the value of the claim was likely to be greater than the 
excess. He also questioned why this point hadnt been mentioned by AIL when it 
dealt with his claim and complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AIL has clarified that the main reason it declined the claim was because it thought the 
damage was pre-existing or maintenance related. But it had also made the point about the 
excess as it could have an impact on the claim.
I cant see it raised the latter point with Mr P prior to the complaint being referred to our 
service. I would usually expect to see all relevant points raised with the consumer as part of 
the business response to the complaint. So its disappointing to see this point raised later. 
However, I think its relevant to the dispute, so Ill consider it as part of this complaint.
The policy says Mr P must pay the first £2,500 towards each subsidence claim. This is the 
policy excess.
AIL has provided a schedule of work valued at around £1,900. Mr P has questioned how 
accurate it is. It contains measurements for several rooms and is broken down into 
numerous individual items of work. So it appears to have been thoroughly considered. And I 
havent seen any alternative quotes for the work. Because of this, Im satisfied its fair to 
consider £1,900 a fair estimate of the cost of the work, based on the available information.
However, the excess applies not just to the cost of the work but to the value of the claim 
overall. AIL has identified the cause of damage as subsidence brought about by trees. 
Following its initial inspection, it said tree investigation and crack monitoring was required. In 
my experience the cost of these of these activities is likely to exceed £600. That means the 
overall claim value is likely to exceed the £2,500 excess.
Because of this, Im not persuaded the claim can be declined based on its value.
Ill turn now to AILs main reason for declining the claim. The policy covers damage caused 
by subsidence  but not any damage occurring or arising from an event before cover by this 
policy commences.
AIL seems to accept the damage has been caused by subsidence. As AIL is relying on an 
exclusion to cover, the onus is on it to show that it applies. That means showing the 
subsidence problem began prior to the policy starting in January 2020.
AIL has provided the report from its inspection in August 2020. It says Mr P discovered the 
damage earlier in August 2020. It doesnt comment on when the subsidence problem may 
have started or the timing of the crack damage.
Mr P has said he discovered new cracks in August 2020. Hes aware there was a previous 
subsidence claim around ten years earlier, which had been put right by an insurer.
AIL has pointed to the homebuyers survey Mr P arranged prior to buying the house. The 
survey report noted the property had suffered subsidence previously. It said there werent 
any significant defects that needed structural intervention. In the section titled structural 
movement it said the property wasnt actively moving.
The inspection report from AIL shows a number of internal cracks. The photos arent 
annotated, so its not entirely clear where they are or what theyre intended to show. But I 
assume theyre examples of the subsidence damage. The survey contains numerous 
photos, but none show internal cracking. It noted some internal cracking to ceilings in the 
written report, but it didnt think they indicated structural movement.
Overall, I havent seen any expert opinion or other evidence to show the current subsidence 
problem existed prior to the policy starting. So Im not satisfied AIL has shown that the policy 
term for pre-existing damage applies to the subsidence damage.AIL also said it didnt cover any maintenance related damage. Theres a policy term which 
says it doesnt cover wear and tear or gradual deterioration.
The survey report noted neglect by the previous owners and said some parts of the property 
required repair and maintenance. It lists a number of areas for attention. Since this damage 
existed prior to the current subsidence problem, I dont think the wear and tear policy term 
can be relied upon to decline the claim. The subsidence problem is recent and not the result 
of maintenance related defects.
However, when it comes to carrying out repairs, consideration will have to be given to which 
damage is maintenance related and which is subsidence related.
Ive taken into account the reasons AIL has put forward for declining the claim. Having done 
so, Im not persuaded by them for the reasons above. That means I think AIL unfairly 
declined the claim. To put that right, it should now accept the claim for subsidence damage.
When an insurer accepts a subsidence claim, it usually has a duty to continue to provide 
subsidence cover. In part thats because it can be difficult for consumers to access 
subsidence cover as a new customer when they have recent or ongoing subsidence claims 
to declare. I understand Mr Ps policy was due to renew in early 2021 but, because it had 
declined the claim, AIL didnt offer to renew it. As a result, Mr P says hes been unable to 
obtain subsidence cover and has faced increased premiums.
Had AIL accepted the claim, it would have been obliged to continue renewing the policy. It 
didnt do that, and Mr P may have lost out as a result. To put that right, AIL should offer 
cover, including subsidence, from the next renewal. It should also confirm for Mr P that it will 
provide subsidence cover for the time hes been, and will be, without it. I understand that to 
be January 2021 to January 2023. Mr P may not need to make a claim for subsidence during 
that time, but its fair he should have the cover in place in case he does.
Lastly, in response to this provisional decision, Mr P should provide us with his policy 
schedules for January 2021 and 2022 to show what cover he took out and at what cost. AIL 
should let us know what it would likely have charged for providing a policy, including 
subsidence cover, for these renewals. I then expect AIL to pay Mr P the difference between 
what he paid and what he would have paid, if he has paid more as a result of having to seek 
cover elsewhere.
As a result of AIL declining the claim, things havent moved forward. Thats meant Mr P 
suffering the distress and inconvenience of seeing the damage to his home, with the 
uncertainty of how it would be resolved, for a prolonged period of time. To put that right, I 
think AIL should pay £500 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
AlL responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr P responded to provide further information, in summary:
Policy schedules for January 2021 and 2022
Evidence of costs incurred progressing the claim, including legal and arboricultural 
advice, and tree surgery. Mr P asked if these costs could be refunded by AIL or offset 
against the excess.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand both parties accept my provisional decision in principle. So I wont comment 
further on the reasons for upholding it  Ill focus on the outstanding points and next steps.
I found AIL should accept the claim. As part of accepting the claim, AIL should consider any 
costs Mr P submits, such as those he has recently provided. I would expect it to take into 
account that Mr P has proactively taken steps to progress the claim after it was unfairly 
declined. And hes unlikely to have access to the same expert advice that AIL might.
AIL should let Mr P know which costs it agrees to, whether they will be refunded or offset 
against the excess  and if the latter, what excess remains to pay. For any costs it doesnt 
agree to pay, it should let Mr P know why that is.
I also found AIL should pay for Mr Ps increased insurance costs. Mr P provided policy 
schedules from the relevant times. They show the new policies are broadly like-for-like, 
aside from the absence of subsidence cover. Despite that, theyre roughly twice as 
expensive as the premium hed paid AIL in 2020.
AIL hasnt shown what it would likely have charged for the policy, including subsidence, in 
2021 and 2022. And given the significant increase in the amount Mr P has paid, it seems 
likely hes lost out as a result of AIL not renewing the policy.
I still think AIL is entitled to estimate what it would likely have charged for the policy and pay 
Mr P the difference between this and what he actually paid, in 2021 and 2022. If AIL is 
unable to estimate the premiums, it should use the 2020 premium for 2021 and 2022.
Neither party has commented further on the second or fourth bullet points of the remedy I set 
out  offering subsidence from January 2021 and paying compensation. I remain satisfied 
theyre fair, so I see no reason to change or comment on them further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to:
Accept the subsidence claim
Offer cover, including subsidence, from the next renewal and confirm it will provide 
subsidence cover from January 2021 to January 2023
Pay the difference between what Mr P paid and what he would have paid if he had 
remained insured with AIL
Pay £500 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman