DRN-2726070
The complaint
Mr S complains about the delays he experienced when he requested a payment holiday 
from his hire purchase agreement, that hed entered into with Mercedes Financial Services 
UK Limited (MB).  
What happened
On 23 June 2019 Mr S acquired a second-hand car through a hire purchase agreement with 
MB. The car was registered on 28 April 2015, which means it was about four years and two 
months old at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was £14,600 and it had 
travelled 62,515 miles. Mr S put down an advanced deposit of £3,901 which meant that the 
credit agreement was for £10,699 payable over 36 months.
Mr S explained that in March 2020 he contacted MB to request a three-month payment 
holiday, which is also referred to as a payment deferral (PD). Mr S explained that this was 
because he lost his job. Mr S says that on 7 April 2020 MB wrote to him to confirm approval 
of the payment holiday, although MB have advised this was subject to Mr S acceptance. Mr 
S explained however, that around two weeks later the usual monthly payment was taken 
from his account. 
Mr S explained that although this had an impact on him financially, he decided to wait a 
couple of weeks before contacting MB to find out why the PD hadnt been put in place. MB 
says that Mr S contacted them around two days after Aprils payment was due to ask 
questions about the PD and to request that it be back dated. 
On 11 May 2020 Mr S spoke to MB. MB confirmed to Mr S that Aprils payment would be 
refunded, and that the PD would be back-dated. However, on 26 May 2020 the monthly 
payment was again taken from Mr S account. That same day Mr S says he contacted MB 
who told him that both April and Mays payments would be refunded. 
On 2 June 2020 MB sent their final response letter (FRL) to Mr S. MB upheld his complaint, 
they explained that they refunded April and Mays payments and offered £50 to Mr S in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr S declined the offer and brought his complaint to us here. He explained that the failure to 
activate the PD led to him experiencing financial difficulties which also impacted his family. 
Mr S also explained that he wasnt happy that MB hadnt contacted him when he expected 
them to. Mr S asked that he receives £1000 in compensation.
Our investigator looked into Mr S concerns and didnt uphold his complaint. He felt that MB 
had done enough in the circumstances to put things right.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr S asked that his complaint be referred to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
There are three key issues for me to consider in relation to this complaint:
1. were MB at fault for April and Mays payment being taken from Mr S account?
2. did MB provide poor customer service in their contact with Mr S; and
3. have MB fairly compensated Mr S?
were MB at fault for April and Mays payment being taken from Mr S account?
Its fair to say that Mr S complaint came about when his monthly payments for April and May 
2020 were taken out of his account, despite his request for a break in his payments.
MB have explained the reason the monthly payment was still taken from Mr S account in 
April, was because they hadnt received confirmation of his acceptance of the terms of his 
PD. They went on to explain that the reason Mays payment had been taken was because 
they encountered an unknown error when processing the PD. And the error only came to 
light after the monthly payment in May had been taken.
Mr S has shared emails that he sent to MB requesting the PD, along with some of MBs 
responses. From the emails I can see that MB made contact with Mr S on 7 April confirming 
the PD. However, MB says that they still required Mr S acceptance of the terms. MB said as 
Mr S hadnt provided his acceptance, the PD hadnt been processed.  In an email to MB on 
26 April 2020, towards the end of that email, Mr S wrote: please take this as confirmation of 
the agreement of, which remained incomplete. Im satisfied that MB were acting fairly in not 
activating the PD on the assumption that this had been Mr S acceptance of the terms of the 
PD. 
However, notwithstanding this, I think it would have been helpful had MB contacted Mr S to 
let him know that they were still awaiting his acceptance. Had they done so, theres every 
chance the PD could have been arranged and implemented prior to Mays payment being 
taken.
In relation to Mays payment, although MB have attributed this to an unknown error, I think 
its fair to hold them accountable for the performance of their systems and processes. 
During a phone call to MB on 11 May 2020, Mr S agreed a backdated PD would be put in 
place and followed this up with an email to MB accepting the terms. MB have advised that 
they only picked up Mr S email confirmation on 26 May 2020. However, MB have already 
confirmed the reason the PD hadnt been implemented by Mays payment date was due to 
an unknown error. 
So, from the evidence provided, I dont think MB did anything wrong by taking Mr S April 
payment. But I dont think it shouldve taken Mays.
did MB provide poor customer service in their contact with Mr S?
Mr S had also explained that MB hadnt contacted him when he expected them to. For 
example, Mr S said that he hadnt heard anything from MB for around two weeks after initially contacting them in March 2020 and didnt receive a call back from MB in May 2020 
when they said they would. 
MB have confirmed that Mr S called them in May 2020 to chase a call back, but didnt 
comment on any delays with getting back to Mr S when he said he contacted them in March 
2020. 
Having considered all the information, on balance I dont think MB have acted unfairly here.
Mr S provided evidence of his email to MB in March 2020, requesting the PD. And although 
Ive seen nothing to say that this email had been acknowledged, I have seen that MB 
responded two weeks later with an acceptance of the PD.  MB have also acknowledged that 
Mr S phoned them in May 2020 to chase a call back from his contact with them 4 days 
earlier. Although Mr S said that MB advised him that someone had tried to call him back, this 
in itself doesnt evidence what happened. 
Without the information to show specifically what happened here, or what was promised to 
Mr S, Im not persuaded that MB had acted unfairly in their level of contact with him.
have MB fairly compensated Mr S?
MB have told us that both April and Mays payments were refunded to Mr S on 4 June 2020. 
And Mr S confirmed this. They also offered Mr S £50 in compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
I think MB has acted fairly in this instance. Mr S has said that MB asked him to cancel his 
direct debit during the payment deferral period. Mr S explained that he expected MB to do 
that as he felt it wasnt his responsibility, he also said he didnt want to spend a lengthy time 
on a phone call to his bank. However, MB has said they asked Mr S to complete an 
indemnity for both payments, which would allow the payments to be available immediately 
after theyd been taken from his account.  Without the emails to see what was advised to Mr 
S Im unable to determine the exact circumstances. However, what Mr S has confirmed is 
that he was unwilling to contact his bank because he didnt want to spend a lengthy time on 
the phone to them. This is relevant because Mr S had already decided he wasnt going to do 
this. So from the information provided I dont think that MB had acted unfairly here. 
I acknowledge that the payments going out had impacted Mr S ability to provide for his 
family. This was clearly an unfortunate position to be in. I havent seen any evidence, 
beyond what Mr S has said, that details any losses he incurred as a result of the delayed 
PD. As explained earlier, Mr S confirmed to us that after Aprils payment had been taken he 
decided against chasing MB right away, and he also decided not to contact his bank as 
advised by MB. Im persuaded that Mr S could have done more in the situation to mitigate 
the impact this had on him.
So, in consideration of the information provided, I think what MB has offered as a resolution 
to Mr S complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr S confirmed that he hasnt 
incurred any charges as a result of the delay in the PD being set-up, and Ive already 
established that I dont think MB were at fault for Aprils payment being taken. So, I think £50 
fairly reflects the error that occurred in relation to May 2020s payment coming out. So, Im 
satisfied that the refund of payments along with the compensation payment is a reasonable 
way of putting things right.
My final decisionTo settle the complaint Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited has already made an 
offer to pay £50 compensation, and on 4 June 2020 had refunded April and May 2020s 
monthly payments which had been taken. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited should pay £50 to Mr 
S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman