DRN-2647206
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that TSB Bank plc failed to update her address correctly. She said that she 
didnt receive letters about her credit card arrears, resulting in a default being registered on 
her credit file.
What happened
Mrs T has held various accounts with TSB for several years. These included a TSB credit 
card account. Shed been making direct debit payments to this account of £100 per month. 
On 7 November 2018, Mrs T cancelled the direct debit.
  
TSB continued to send statements to Mrs Ts address. They also sent an arrears notice 
dated 28 December 2018 telling her that minimum payments due on 26 November and 28 
December 2018 hadnt been received.
 
Mrs T says that she contacted TSB on 7 January 2019, telling them shed moved to a new 
house and provided details of the new address. But despite this, Mrs T stopped receiving 
letters and statements from TSB for her credit card account.
Mrs T says that she contacted TSB again when she hadnt received a new debit card. She 
discovered that there was an error in the address that TSB had. So, she asked them to 
correct it. Despite this, she says that she had to visit TSB branches several times over 
several months trying to resolve this ongoing problem.
Mrs T says that she received a letter in August 2019 from a debt collection agency relating to 
the outstanding debt on her credit card. She says that this was the first she knew of the 
arrears on her account. So, she agreed to pay £80 per month to repay the debt.
Mrs T contacted TSB on 13 August 2019 to complain that they were still using the wrong 
address. She said that this meant that she wasnt aware of her credit card arrears which had 
resulted in default information being recorded on her credit file.  TSB replied on 9 
September. They apologised for not correctly changing her address and paid compensation 
of £25. But they didnt think that they were to blame for her credit card arrears.
Mrs T repaid the remaining balance in full in November 2019.
Mrs T complained to TSB again in May 2020. She remained unhappy as she believed that 
TSB were partially to blame for her previous credit card arrears. She was concerned that the 
account was reporting as in default on her credit file, even though shed repaid it. TSB 
agreed that the account should be reported as settled and said theyd correct this. They paid 
a further £100 in compensation to Mrs T for their mistake. But they didnt agree that they had 
done anything else wrong.
Mrs T remained unhappy with this outcome. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators has looked into the circumstances of Mrs Ts complaint. He didnt 
think that TSB needed to do anything more here. Mrs T didnt accept our investigators view 
and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB have confirmed that Mrs T cancelled the direct debit repayments to her credit card 
account on 7 November 2018. Mrs T says that she thought she had set up a new instruction 
to make the minimum payment each month. But she admits that she might not have done. 
TSB have no record that this was either attempted or set up. So, I have no reason to believe 
that TSB made a mistake here.
TSB continued to send statements to Mrs T following cancellation of her direct debit. They 
also sent an arrears notice dated 28 December 2018. I have seen copies of these. They 
were sent to the correct address held on their file at the time.
Mrs T says that she moved to a new house in December 2018. But she didnt inform TSB of 
this change until 7 January 2019. I cant hold TSB responsible if Mrs T didnt receive any 
correspondence sent before she told them about her new address. So, its not unreasonable 
for TSB to believe that Mrs T was aware of the arrears on her account.
Mrs T says that she had arranged for redirection of all post to her new address with the Post 
Office. So, I would expect her to have received any correspondence sent by TSB to her old 
address. I cant hold TSB responsible in the event that there was a failure due to the Post 
Office redirect instruction.
TSB records indicate that Mrs T had access to her bank accounts through their internet 
banking service. Its unclear whether this included her credit card account although there is 
nothing to suggest that it couldnt be accessed. So, I would expect Mrs T to at least notice 
whether direct debit payments were being made from her bank account when reviewing her 
account on-line. Particularly if she wasnt receiving paper statements.
Mrs T made her first complaint to TSB in August 2019 after being contacted by a debt 
collection agency. She was very frustrated that TSB had still failed to use her correct new 
address. I can appreciate Mrs Ts frustrations here. Its clear that she had made several 
attempts to have this corrected. She believed that TSB were partly responsible for the 
situation with her credit card arrears, because she hadnt received statements. I can see 
how she might think that. But ultimately here, it looks like Mrs T cancelled her direct debit 
and then didnt make any alternative arrangements to make payments and it was this that 
was responsible for the arrears. So even if she wasnt receiving statements, I cant hold TSB 
responsible here for the reasons Ive already mentioned above.
But TSB agreed that theyd made a mistake after Mrs T did notify them of her new address. 
They took steps to correct Mrs Ts address in their records and paid compensation of £25 
which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Mrs Ts further complaint relates specifically to the information that was recorded on her file 
with the credit reference agencies. Despite having repaid the outstanding debt in November 
2019, her credit file still showed that this was in default. TSB apologised and agreed to 
correct Mrs Ts credit file. They also paid further compensation of £100. This is in line with 
what I would expect here. Mrs T has provided a copy of her credit report dated 28 July 2020. 
It confirms that the credit card account defaulted on 16 July 2019 and has a satisfaction date 
of 18 November 2019. So, I am comfortable that this is now accurate.But Mrs T thinks that TSB should do more. She holds TSB partially responsible for the cause 
of her arrears in the first place. Her credit report confirms that payments hadnt been made 
for nine months. From the information provided, this appears to be right. It also confirms that 
monthly payments of £80 were then made until the balance was repaid in November 2019. 
This is also right.
 
The Information Commissioners Office/Steering Committee on Reciprocity (ICO/SCOR) 
provide guidelines and principles for the reporting of information to credit reference 
agencies. They state that Lenders that supply data to the CRAs are required to ensure that 
the data is accurate, up to date and meets agreed quality standards. They also state if 
regular expected payments are not made in accordance with the terms and conditions, over 
time, the level of reported arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking some 
form of action.
 
Bearing this in mind, I believe that the information recorded on Mrs Ts credit file is an 
accurate reflection of what actually happened on her credit card account. So, I cant ask for 
this to be changed to reflect something different. Ultimately, the borrower has the 
responsibility to ensure that payments are maintained in line with the terms and conditions of 
the lending agreement. I appreciate and understand that Mrs T will be disappointed by my 
decision. But I cant hold TSB responsible for Mrs T not making any payments.
TSB did make mistakes as regards correcting Mrs Ts address. This was corrected and 
compensation paid. They also failed to update Mrs Ts credit file correctly. This has also 
been corrected and compensation has been paid. So, I shant be asking TSB to do anything 
more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman