DRN-4127944
The complaint
Ms C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited wont meet the costs to replace her 
boiler. Ms C sought assistance under a Boiler Breakdown cover policy. 
What happened
An engineer attended to repair Ms Cs boiler as she said it wasnt working properly. The 
engineer said it needed a part which was obsolete. As Ms Cs boiler was over seven years 
old, in line with the policy, Aviva paid a £200 contribution toward the costs of a new boiler. 
Ms C complained to Aviva. She said this wasnt enough to cover the costs of a new boiler 
and felt it as responsible for sourcing a part to repair it instead. 
Aviva didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint and so she asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our Investigator found Aviva had acted correctly and in line with the policy. 
Ms C wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs policy with Aviva says:
Obsolete Parts and Beyond Economical Repair boilers - If when attempting to repair 
your boiler the parts required are found to be obsolete or your boiler is beyond 
economical repair, the following terms shall apply.
First 6 months - During the first six months of cover your boiler will not be replaced 
under this policy.
After 6 months - After six months of cover (and each year thereafter that you renew 
the policy); if your boiler is less than 7 years old we will source, replace and install a 
new boiler. If it is 7 years old or older we will make a contribution of £200 towards the 
cost of a new boiler.
As Ms C had cover for over six months and her boiler was over seven years old, Aviva paid 
£200 towards the cost of a new boiler. 
I think the terms of the policy are clear. And so I dont think Aviva owes Ms C the costs to 
replace her boiler. I understand her boiler was over 20 years old - and so it isnt unusual that 
the parts to repair it are obsolete. As such, it isnt possible for Aviva to source the parts 
needed to repair Ms Cs boiler as they dont exist. 
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Ms C. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman