DRN-3321934
The complaint
The Estate of Mr H complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
declined to consider a terminal illness benefit claim on the life policy Mr H had with it. 
What happened
Mrs H and her late husband, Mr H, took out three policies with L&G in 2000 through an 
Independent Financial Advisor. One of the policies was a level term, single life policy solely 
in Mr Hs name. The sum assured was £100,000 and the policy was for a term of 20 years. 
This means the policy expired on 20 February 2020.
Mr H was unfortunately diagnosed with terminal cancer in April 2020. Mr and Mrs H tried to 
make a terminal illness benefit claim on the policy in July 2020, but in August 2020 L&G said 
that as terminal illness claims are excluded in the last 18 months of the policy, it wasnt able 
to consider it. 
Mr H sadly passed away in October 2020 and the estate of Mr H complained to this service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said in order for L&G to consider a terminal 
illness claim, it would need to have been made before the last 18 months of the policy, so 
prior to 20 September 2019. But the diagnosis wasnt made until around April 2020. So our 
Investigator thought L&G acted in line with the policy terms when it applied the exclusion. 
L&G responded and said when the estate of Mr H complained to it, it was in relation to a 
critical illness claim being turned down, and not L&Gs decision not to consider a terminal 
illness benefit claim. However, L&G agreed to this service continuing to look into the 
complaint. 
The estate of Mr H did not agree with what our Investigator said and so this has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I first of all want to offer my condolences to Mr Hs family. This must be a very difficult time 
for them. However, its important to say at this point that the life assurance policy in question 
had expired at the time the terminal illness benefit claim was made. And, broadly speaking, if 
a policy has expired then a claim cant be made. Having said that, there are some 
circumstances where this service might look retrospectively at a claim to see whether 
particular criteria were met while the policy was still in existence. But I can see that L&G has 
indicated that doesnt apply here and that it was too late to submit a terminal illness claim, as 
there was an exclusion in place that meant terminal illness claims couldnt be made during 
the last 18 months of the policy. 
Ill explain what terminal illness benefit is. Broadly speaking, consumers who have life 
assurance policies often have the option of making an early claim on the policy if they are 
diagnosed as being terminally ill. Insurers recognise that this is often very helpful for 
policyholders, as it allows them to, for example, sort out their finances before they pass 
away. What this means is that terminal illness benefit is not a standalone benefit  it is an 
advance payment of the death benefit under the policy. 
With that in mind, it is usual for insurers to want to be reasonably sure that terminal illness 
benefit settlements are only paid if it seems likely the policy holder will pass away during the 
term of the policy. This is not unreasonable, and it is why there is often a term in life 
assurance policies that says terminal illness benefit claims will not be accepted within the 
last 18 months of the policy. There was just such a term in Mr Hs life assurance policy. This 
said that the benefit under the policy was payable: 
On the death of the Life Assured before the Expiry Date, or upon diagnosis of a Terminal 
Illness at least 18 months before the Expiry Date there shall become payable the Sum 
Assured of £100,000. 
Mr H was diagnosed as being terminally ill in April 2020. As this wasnt prior to the last 18 
months of the policy end date, L&G doesnt have to consider a terminal illness benefit claim. 
Mr H, sadly, passed away in October 2020 and as this was after the policy ended, L&G 
doesnt have to consider a life assurance claim either.  
So Im satisfied L&G acted within the terms of the policy when it decided not to consider the 
terminal illness benefit claim. I also think it acted fairly when it made this decision. This is 
because Mr Hs policy had already ended when he was diagnosed and when he passed 
away. So it wouldnt be fair, given the particular circumstances of this complaint, to ask L&G 
to take a different course of action. 
I understand that my decision will be a disappointment to the estate of Mr H. But I could only 
ask L&G to consider the claim if I thought it had acted unfairly or outside the terms of the 
policy. And Im satisfied it didnt. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman