DRN-2863405
The complaint
Ms L has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Yorkshire Bank) mis-sold her a Private 
Offset Premium Current Account in January 2004. This account was rebranded a number of 
times with the last rebranding in April 2013, when the account name was changed to Private 
Current Account (PCA). Ms L closed the account in September 2016.
For the sake of brevity I will refer to the account as a PCA throughout this decision.
Ms L initially complained via a representative and gave a number of reasons why she felt the 
account had been mis-sold. These include:
That the account was recommended over the phone and Ms L was led to believe she 
had to have the account to obtain a buy-to-let mortgage
Ms L was unaware she was paying a monthly fee for the account
Yorkshire Bank failed to provide enough information about the account so that Ms L 
could establish if the account was good value for money and also whether insurance 
policies over lapped with existing policies.
It was not made aware of the exclusions and limitations of the insurance policies.
It was not made clear that fee-free alternatives existed.
Ms L did not own a smart phone at the point of sale and it was not made clear Ms L 
had to register products under some of the insurance benefits.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she did not think that the PCA had been 
mis-sold. Ms L disagreed and stated that it had been sold to her to obtain a second buy-to-
let mortgage.
As Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I start, I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence 
is lacking, as is the case here, I must decide what I think was most likely to have happened, 
based on everything that is available.
Ive started by considering whether Ms L was given a fair choice. Yorkshire Bank has 
provided a copy of the application form, and this has been signed by Ms L. So I am satisfied 
that Ms L did agree to the account.
Ms L has said that she was led to believe she had to have the account to obtain a second 
buy-to-let mortgage. Unfortunately, due to how long ago the account was sold to Ms L, there 
is very limited information available. However, I note that the account was an off set 
account, which usually operates alongside mortgage(s), whereby any credit balance in the 
account is off set against the balance on the mortgage, which effectively lowers the capital 
balance of the mortgage on which the interest payments are calculated.  Neither party has 
provided evidence of the mortgage product taken out, but I think theres a strong possibility 
that Ms L agreed to the account to take advantage of the offsetting features of the account.
I also note from product literature from around the time of the sale, that the account offered a 
private banking manager. And, according to the literature, the account provided exclusive 
loan products at preferential interest rates and access to Local credit specialists 
empowered to make local decisions, fast. 
So based on Ms Ls circumstances at the time, I think its just as likely that Ms L agreed to 
the account because of the benefits (especially the lending benefits) it provided rather than 
because it was the only way to obtain a buy-to-let mortgage. Therefore based on the 
information I have seen, I think Ms L was more likely than not given a fair choice in agreeing 
to this account. 
Ms L says that the account was recommended to her, whereas Yorkshire Bank says that it 
was sold on a non-advised basis. 
Having considered what both parties have said, Ive not seen enough to say that the account 
was sold on an advised basis. I say this as there is no evidence to show that Ms Ls 
insurance needs were discussed or that the account was sold to Ms L on the basis that it 
met a particular insurance need. And Yorkshire Bank says that the account did not provide 
any insurance products when it was sold to Ms L. So from what I have seen, the account 
seems to have been sold to Ms L purely for the banking benefits it provided.
Therefore, as I think it was sold on a non-advised basis, this means Yorkshire Bank did not 
have to check if the benefits were a good fit for Ms L. But Yorkshire Bank still had to give Ms 
L all of the important information about the account so she could decide for herself whether it 
was worth taking out.
Ms L has said that she was unaware she was paying for her account. But Yorkshire Bank 
has provided a copy of the welcome letter. And in this, it says: Please remember that if you 
feel that our service falls short of our Premium Service Standards, we guarantee to refund 
your annual fee in full. Yorkshire Bank has also provided another form signed by Ms L in 
which she set up a standing order on another account to pay £120 into her PCA on an 
annual basis  to cover the annual account fee. So the evidence from the time suggests that 
Ms L was made aware of the cost of the account and she agreed to it in the knowledge that 
shed have to pay for it.
Ms Ls representative has also made other comments about mobile phones and not being 
told about the need to register or about the limitations of insurance policies. But as far as Im 
aware, the account didnt provide any insurance benefits when it was sold to Ms L. So these 
comments are irrelevant to how the account was sold in the first instance.
Due to the lack of information, I think its possible that Yorkshire Bank might not have given 
Ms L all of the information it shouldve about the account. But Ive not seen anything about 
Ms Ls circumstances that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had 
she been given even more information about the account.
So taking everything into account, on balance, I dont think that the PCA was mis-sold to Ms 
L.
My final decisionBecause of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman