DRN-2774423
The complaint
This complaints about a consolidation re-mortgage Mr and Mrs W took out in 2006 on 
advice given by a representative of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G). 
Mr and Mrs W, who have third party representation, believe it was mis-sold.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current situation and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
The investigator didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint; he wasnt persuaded the 
mortgage overall had been unsuitable for Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances as recorded at the 
time. 
The case has come to me for review, chiefly because Mr and Mrs Ws representative 
remains of the view that consolidating all of the credit cards debts and securing them against 
the property was inappropriate; the advice should have been more selective. It also 
continues to argue that the legal administration fee was unfair and should be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. My review had focussed largely on the 
comments contained in the representatives email of 16 April 2021 asking for a decision from 
an ombudsman.
Consolidation of unsecured consumer debt
Advising people to re-mortgage to consolidate existing debt isnt inherently unsuitable. It all 
depends on the grounds given for the argument that the advice was unsuitable, and the 
individuals circumstances and objectives at the time the advice was given. Hindsight cant 
be a factor here.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative drew attention (unfavourably) to the fact that the annual 
percentage rate (APR) of the new mortgage (as detailed on the mortgage offer) was the 
same as that of the loan that was repaid. That much is true, but the mortgage offer also says 
the following:
The figures in this Section will vary following interest rate changes and if you do not keep 
the mortgage for 17 years.
Only use the figures in this Section to compare the cost with another repayment mortgage.
Thus, the comparator fails as an argument for the loans inclusion in the consolidation as 
being unsuitable.
The main argument against consolidating credit card and loan debts into a mortgage are that 
the debts becomes secured, and are repaid over a longer period. So, even if the mortgage is 
on a lower rate, its likely the overall interest cost will be higher in the long term. The main 
argument in favour of consolidation is that it frees up cashflow in the consumers monthly 
budget. The balancing factor tends to be the extent to which there is a need for improved 
cashflow, and so it proves here.
Mr and Mrs W had four credit cards and a loan. Their representative points to them having 
declared a monthly income surplus of a little under £200 as evidence they probably didnt 
need to consolidate. Meanwhile, L&G points to the static nature of their overdraft at the time 
as evidence that they probably did. Ive given this a lot of thought, and on balance Im more 
persuaded by L&Gs argument than I am that of Mr and Mrs Ws representative. 
The overdraft was around ten times the surplus income and, as Ive said, it was static. That 
is, it remained broadly the same after each months income and expenditure cycle. 
Reiterating the point that hindsight cant play a part in my decision, I find it more likely than 
not that in 2006, Mr and Mrs W would have understood that they didnt have enough surplus 
income to make inroads into their overdraft, and that consolidation was a suitable means of 
doing so. 
Im also satisfied that L&Gs advisor drew Mr and Mrs Ws attention to the downsides of 
consolidation, which I detailed a moment ago, allowing them to make an informed decision 
that the benefits of following the recommendation generally outweighed the disadvantages. 
Thats not to say I had disregarded the representatives point about selectivity. When it 
addressed the complaint, L&G accepted that one of the four credit card debts  the one with 
the lowest balance  should not have been included. Im inclined to agree; the size of the 
debt relative to the others, meant that the benefit of consolidating was marginal, if not 
non-existent. But Im satisfied L&G has made a fair offer to remedy that.
The legal administration fee
This is a subject weve looked at before. In 2014, a fellow ombudsman concluded that the 
fee was legitimate, in that it covered the costs of the brokers liaison with the conveyancing 
solicitor. In 2020, another ombudsman colleague reviewing a separate case concluded that 
whilst the fee was legitimate, he wasnt satisfied from the available evidence that it been 
properly disclosed to the consumers.Our final decisions dont form binding precedents; but we do aim to be consistent when 
deciding different cases on similar facts, so its sensible and prudent that I consider them in 
the context of the case Im deciding here. 
Those two decisions dont contradict each other; they determine different things. One 
decided that the legal administration fee was legitimate, and Ive reached the same 
conclusion here. The other decided that the consumers hadnt been properly informed about 
the legal administration fee, and Ive reached a different conclusion here. Thats because I 
have sight of a Solicitors Form of Authorisation signed by Mr and Mrs W on 7 February 2006 
putting them on notice of, and obtaining their agreement to, the fee being incurred. 
Other matters
For completeness, I see that the reference in the original complaint letter to an alleged 
undisclosed commission payment of £50 appears to be a carry-over from another 
unrelated complaint, possibly included by mistake. Its not been covered by L&G in its final 
response, or by our investigator after the case was referred to us (other than to point out that 
it seems to be unrelated). I make no findings on the topic here either. If Mr and Mrs W (or 
their representative) want to pursue this, theyll need to start a fresh complaint with L&G 
setting out the specifics as they relate to Mr and Mrs W. 
Lastly, theres been some debate about whether L&G cold-called Mr and Mrs W to initiate 
the transaction. The evidence either way isnt conclusive, but in any event, the suitability or 
otherwise of mortgage advice isnt dependent on who called who first.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
If, on further reflection, Mr and Mrs W wish to accept L&Gs settlement offer, they, or their 
representative on their behalf, can contact it directly to effect a resolution.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman