DRN-3593246
The complaint
Mrs G complains Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) declined a purchase to an online 
merchant, without good reason. 
What happened
Mrs G says on 13 March 2022 she attempted to make a small purchase to an online retailer 
which  was declined, but it was then approved after her second attempt. Mrs G says she 
emailed Tesco to understand why this happened, but she simply received a response from 
Tescos using a no reply email address, adding to her frustration. Mrs G says Tesco 
provided a poor level of service and have refused to respond any further to her complaint 
saying it would file any response. 
Mrs G wants Tesco to apologise, offer a goodwill gesture and explain fully to her what went 
wrong. 
Tescos says it did receive her initial email and it was attached to her case. Tesco says the 
initial transaction was declined as it hadnt received the verification it required, under the new 
regulatory requirements for Strong Customer Authentication (SCA), something adopted by 
all UK banks. But this verification was received on Mrs Gs second attempt a few minutes 
later and the payment went ahead. Tesco said it had made no errors and therefore didnt 
feel compensation was appropriate. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained Tescos had implemented the SCA measures and from the 
information she had seen, the initial transaction was declined because the merchant hadnt 
conformed to the required verification Tescos needed. The investigator acknowledged while 
this may have been frustrating for Mrs G, this authentication process was also to protect 
consumers. 
The investigator says Tesco did receive the emails Mrs G sent despite the automated 
responses she had received and couldnt see Tesco had acted unfairly in the handling of the 
complaint. The investigator felt, that although Mrs G had to reinput her card details twice this 
didnt warrant a compensation payment from Tesco. 
Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mrs G to see her online payment request 
initially declined and then accepted on a second attempt only a few minutes later, without 
any obvious reason why. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Tesco were at fault when it declined Mrs Gs 
initial online merchant payment, and as a result if it should compensate her for that. 
Mrs Gs complaint centres around the fact Tescos have provided poor service to her when it 
declined her initial payment to an online merchant without explanation, and when she 
complained to Tescos by email, it used a no reply email address, which added to her 
frustration.
The first thing to say here is that it is not the role of this service to scrutinise Tescos 
complaints process or to tell Tescos how it should deal with complaints more widely. But 
what I can say is from the information I have seen, although Tesco sent a response with an 
automated no reply email address, it had in fact received Mrs Gs complaint email and Im 
satisfied Mrs Gs comments were taken into consideration at that time. 
The investigator has explained to Mrs G there have been changes put in place by the banks 
regulators for authenticating online payments by consumers, known as SCA. 
Mrs G has made the point that she was able to make the second payment online without 
issue only a few minutes later without any further involvement from her or the merchant. 
While I understand what Mrs G is saying here, from the information provided to this service 
the code used by Tesco when it declined the initial payment was to inform the merchant it 
wasnt complying with the new directive on SCAs. Im satisfied by the time the second 
payment was made - the verification Tesco needed was in put in place by the merchant. 
Mrs G says she hadnt received an explanation or an apology from Tesco, but I can see 
Tesco sent responses to Mrs G on 16 and 22 March 2022, where it apologies for any 
inconvenience the change in regulatory requirements has caused her and goes on to explain 
it had received the verification it required on the second payment attempt. This is what I 
would expect to see here.
Its fair to say from time to time we all experience inconvenience, but here the payment was 
refused in line with Tescos regulatory requirements and importantly to also protect 
consumers like Mrs G at the same time. So, while not trying to minimise the frustration Mrs 
G experienced, overall given the payment was approved a few minutes later by her 
reinputting her card details, I cant say that would warrant a compensation payment. 
Afterall, its fair to say Tesco hadnt made an error in declining the first payment attempt for 
the reasons I have already explained. 
While Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Tesco here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman