DRN-3054042
The complaint
Mr L said that ill health had affected his income, so hed entered into a debt management 
plan, and reached an agreement to repay Santander UK Plc as part of that. But he said that 
Santander was trying to change this agreement, which wasnt fair or lawful. 
What happened
Mr L said that Santander had accepted the offer that was made on his behalf, under a debt 
management plan, to pay off his overdraft. But then it tried to breach that agreement, and 
tried to use threatening letters to get him to repay the full amount. Mr L wanted Santander to 
stick to the agreement it had entered into. 
But Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong. It told us, when it accepted the offer 
made on Mr Ls behalf, it also said then that it would need to send him a default notice. But 
the letter accepting Mr Ls offer also said that as long as he kept making payments under the 
plan, Santander wouldnt need him to pay more than that. 
Santander said recording a default on Mr Ls credit file was a reflection of the conduct of the 
account, and it wouldnt change this.
Our investigator didnt think that this complaint should be upheld. She said that in December 
2020, Santander agreed to a payment proposal of £14.71 a month, put forward by a debt 
management agency on behalf of Mr L. When it did this, it also said this - 
Please note that we'll still have to send you a Default Notice in line with the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. This will ask you to repay the full balance. However, as 
long as you continue to make the agreed payments, we won't need you to pay any 
more than the payments in your plan.

We'll send a record of this arrangement to the credit reference agencies that we 
share data with. You should also be aware that we might need to record your 
account as being in default with us to the credit reference agencies, which could 
affect your ability to get credit in the future.
Mr L received a default notice on 30 April 2021, asking him to pay over £700. When he didnt 
pay this, the account defaulted. 
Our investigator said that when it becomes clear that the original agreement has been 
broken, lenders are entitled to default accounts. It was clear that this had happened here. So 
our investigator said she thought that the default was applied correctly. She said she 
wouldnt ask Santander to do any more.
Mr L didnt agree. He wanted to see the evidence that our service had used to reach this 
outcome. Mr L made a subject access request, which has now been fulfilled.
Because Mr L didnt agree with our investigator, this complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr L wanted to see all the documents that Santander had sent to our service. Im not able to 
see what has been sent to Mr L as part of his subject access request, but Im satisfied that 
the key documents in this case are in fact documents which Mr L has supplied to our 
service, and the final response letter from Santander, which Ive arranged to have sent to 
him. So Im also satisfied that Im able to decide this case now. 
Mr L told us that hed reached an agreement with Santander to pay off his overdraft, as part 
of a debt management plan. He sent us a letter dated 26 December 2020 which accepts the 
offer of payment. 
This letter does a couple of other important things. It confirms that Santander isnt going to 
charge interest any more on Mr Ls debt. And it tells Mr L that Santander will default his debt, 
and its going to be writing to him about that. 
When Mr L first arranged an overdraft with Santander, that agreement said that hed pay 
interest on the lending. Santander isnt charging that interest any more. So its not operating 
under the original agreement it reached with Mr L. Its made a new agreement with him  as 
part of his debt management plan.
A default on someones credit file just means that the lender considers that the original 
relationship between that person and the lender has broken down. In other words, its a way 
of showing that Mr L isnt going to be able to pay back the debt in line with the original 
agreement (because he isnt paying interest any more) and Santander has accepted this. 
Entering into a debt management plan doesnt stop a debt from defaulting. Because a plan 
like this confirms that someone isnt going to be able to pay back the money in the way 
originally envisaged, I would usually expect a default to happen for each debt covered by a 
debt management plan, within a few months of that plan starting. 
And when Santander accepted Mr Ls offer of payment, it explained to him that this is what 
would happen.
Before it can default a debt, Santander is required to give Mr L a last chance to pay off 
everything he owes. It still has to do that, even if it knows Mr L cant pay the whole amount at 
once. So Santander had to write to Mr L, asking him to pay everything. 
I think its important to note that Santander had already told Mr L that it wasnt really 
expecting him to pay everything he owed. Its not seeking to change the plan its agreed with 
Mr L. It just has to do this, before it can record the default.
Mr L was upset and concerned by this. I do understand his concerns, as the default letters 
Santander sent were asking for a lot of money. But I dont think that Santander is trying to 
change what it has agreed as part of his plan, or that Santander has done anything wrong. 
Rather, I think that it was doing what I would expect in this situation. And it has since written to Mr L, on 11 May 2021, to confirm for him that its not trying to change the plan that it 
agreed to in December 2020. 
I know that Mr L will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman