DRN-4385130
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with N.I.I.B 
Group Limited trading as Northridge Finance was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 11 November 2022, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with Northridge. He paid a deposit of £4,000 (through a part-exchange of his 
existing car) and the agreement was for £21,250 over 49 months; with 48 monthly payments 
of £314.81 and a final payment of £12,250. At the time of supply, the car was around four 
years old, and had done 53,001 miles (according to the MOT record for 9 November 2022).
Shortly after being supplied with the car, it started to develop faults  there was an issue with 
the main beam assist, a rattle from the dashboard, smoke coming out of the engine, and an 
AdBlue fault. Mr S wanted to reject the car, but the supplying dealership insisted on 
attempting a repair. 
Mr S wasnt happy with what had happened, and he complained to Northridge. As Mr S had 
been unable to use the car for around two months while it was being repaired, and as he 
hadnt been provided with a courtesy car, in March 2023 Northridge paid Mr C £750 
compensation for the trouble and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr S wasnt happy with Northridges offer, as he wanted to reject the car. So, he brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. On 28 June 2023, while 
this complaint was being investigated, Mr S had an accident in the car. The car was written 
off, and Mr S cleared the outstanding finance with Northridge on 31 July 2023.
Publicly available information shows that the car was repaired and eventually sold to a new 
owner in October 2023. While the mileage at the time of the accident hasnt been confirmed, 
although Mr S says it was 56,000 miles; the MOT record for 28 October 2023 confirms the 
mileage as 58,980 miles. Given this, and that its likely the car didnt do any substantive 
mileage between the accident and repair/sale, Im satisfied its more likely that the car had 
done around 58,500 miles at the time of the accident.
Our investigator initially said there was a fault with the car which made it of an unsatisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. As the dealership had tried, and failed, to repair the faults, the 
investigator said that under normal circumstances Mr S would be able to reject the car. 
However, as the car had been written off and the finance settled, the investigator said that 
Northridge should refund the £4,000 deposit Mr S paid, along with statutory interest, and pay 
him an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Northridge didnt agree with the investigator. They said Mr S was offered a courtesy car, but 
didnt take the dealership up on this offer, and that there was no evidence the main beam 
assist fault remained after the dealership had attempted to fix this, as well as fixing all the 
other faults reported with the car.
Northridge also didnt think it was fair that Mr S took the £750 compensation and continued 
his complaint, when this was offered on the basis that no further action will be taken in 
respect of this complaint. And that Mr S replied to state he accepted the full and final offer 
of settlement.
Northridge provided evidence to support their view the complaint was closed. They provided 
an email dated 8 March 2023 which said, our final offer, again made on an entirely goodwill 
basis is £750. Mr S replied to this the same day, confirming I accept the good will gesture 
of £750. Finally, in a letter dated 13 March 2023, referring to the 8 March offer and 
acceptance, Northridge said if you are not satisfied with the outcome of your complaint, 
please regard this letter as a Final Response and you may now refer this matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Finally, Northridge said they believed Mr S had been using the car for commercial purposes, 
which was against the agreement he signed.
Mr S provided evidence of the times hed raised issues with the car with the dealership and 
Northridge, and the investigator reissued their view. They said that Mr S hadnt accepted the 
£750 in full and final settlement of the complaint, and this complaint was therefore something 
we were able to look into. They also said there was no evidence Mr S was using the car for 
commercial purposes but, even if he was, it didnt mean the complaint couldnt be looked at 
as the agreement was regulated.
However, based on the additional evidence that had been submitted, the investigator didnt 
think Mr S had shown there was still a fault with the car, that made it of an unsatisfactory 
quality, after it had been initially repaired by the dealership. So, they changed their view and 
didnt think Northridge needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators amended view. He said hed tried to take the car to 
a main dealer for a health check, as asked for by the dealership, but they wouldnt do this 
because the dealership hadnt authorised it. So, he felt he had no option but to ask to reject 
the car. He also thought that the photographic and video evidence hed supplied showed the 
fault was still present after the car had been repaired. And he thought it was reasonable that 
at least some of his deposit was returned.
Because Mr S didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Where evidence has been incomplete 
or contradictory, Ive reached my view on the balance of probabilities  what I think is most 
likely to have happened given the available evidence and wider circumstances.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Northridge are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Northridge can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr S to show it was present when the 
car was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr S took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask Northridge to put this right.
Its not disputed that Mr S had some problems with the car shortly after it was supplied to 
him, and hes provided evidence of faults with the car within the first 30-days of it being 
supplied. However, its also not disputed that the dealership completed a repair. Section 
24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise [this] 
and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair, so I dont 
think its unreasonable the dealership attempted to repair the car.
Mr S has said that a second repair took place in March 2023, to fix the issues the dealership 
didnt repair, specifically the AdBlue. Hes provided an invoice for work done on the car, 
which shows the mileage at the time was 55,662. However, it doesnt show what work was 
carried out, or provide any other information apart from the amount owing. As such, I cant 
rely on this as proof the dealerships repair failed. And, even if I could, theres no evidence 
that the faults repaired in March 2023 reoccurred. So, this isnt something that would support 
rejection of the car.
Mr S has provided evidence that, on 12 April 2023, he sent the dealership an email 
complaining the car had displayed a warning message. He provided video evidence of this to 
Northridge on 20 April 2023.
Ive seen this video, and it shows a warning message on the dashboard of the car. While its 
not entirely clear from this video what this warning message actually says, I believe its Main 
beam assist: currently unavailable. Camera view restricted due to surroundings. However, 
theres nothing that indicates why this is the case and, as the video was taken while the car 
was being driven, theres nothing on the video that shows the camera and whether its view is 
restricted.
Had the faults not been fixed by the dealership when they repaired the car, I wouldve 
expected them to still be there when the car was collected by Mr S, and not present 
themselves some months later. So, Id be looking for some evidence that the fault Mr S was 
experiencing in April 2023 was as a result of the dealership repairs having failed, and not 
caused by something that wasnt present or developing when the car was supplied.
Neither party has been able to provide a report from a garage or independent engineer 
relating to the April 2023 faults. While Mr S said he was unable to provide this as the 
dealership didnt authorise a health check to be carried out by a main dealer (which Mr S 
acknowledges isnt something that would look at the main beam assist), this wouldnt have stopped him getting the car checked by another garage. And, as the car has now been 
written off by Mr Ss insurer, repaired and resold, its no longer possible to obtain such a 
report.
Based on what Ive seen, on the balance of probabilities, Im not satisfied there is evidence 
that shows that either the original repair failed, or that the issues Mr S encountered in April 
2023 resulted from a fault that was present or developing at the point the car was supplied to 
him. And the mileage figures Ive seen indicate Mr S was able to make full use of the car 
while it was in his possession.
Northridge have paid Mr S £750 for the around two months he was without use of the car, 
even though Ive seen evidence he was offered (and refused) a courtesy car. As this is more 
than the value of two payments, Im satisfied this was a reasonable offer.
Whats more, Ive seen that Mr S was asked to provide details of the insurance value he 
received for the car but chose not to do so. As this was an insurance write-off, he 
presumably received the market value of the car, which wouldnt be dissimilar to the price he 
paid, given the short time he was in possession of the car. Mr S hasnt complained that the 
write-off figure was insufficient to repay the finance, and the terms of the finance would 
discount any settlement figure based on interest not charged. 
As such, while Mr S has said he thinks he should recover at least some of the deposit he 
paid, Im satisfied its more likely than not he recovered this (less any applicable excess) in 
the difference between the settlement figure and the amount he received from the insurers. 
And if Mr S were to receive a deposit refund from Northridge, this would essentially amount 
to double recovery. Which I consider to be unfair.
As such, given the above, I wont be asking Northridge to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about N.I.I.B Group Limited 
trading as Northridge Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman