DRN-4350882
The complaint
Miss F has complained National Westminster Bank plc wont refund £1,980 worth of cash 
machine withdrawals made from her account.
What happened
Whilst she was abroad in March 2023, Miss F switched her bank account to NatWest. A new 
card and PIN were sent to her home address. Miss F found she was subsequently blocked 
from accessing her account in April. She discovered there had been numerous cash 
machine withdrawals made over 8 days amounting to £1,980 which was practically all the 
money in her account.
She asked NatWest to refund her as shed not made these transactions herself. NatWest 
reviewed what had happened but overall didnt see this as matching known fraud patterns. 
They wouldnt refund Miss F. They subsequently wrote to Miss F that they had decided to 
close her account. 
Miss F was unhappy and brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator didnt believe that this had the hallmarks of third-party fraud so wouldnt ask 
NatWest to refund Miss F.
Still unhappy, Miss F brought our attention to various requirements under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. She asked an ombudsman to consider these factors when 
making a decision on her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Miss Fs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
Im aware that Miss F had been out of the country when she switched accounts and knew 
that she wouldnt be around when her new card and PIN were sent to her. NatWests 
records show Miss Fs new debit card and PIN were sent separately to Miss Fs UK home 
address, where she lives with her husband. Shes also confirmed her husband would most 
have likely been there when both items were delivered in March 2023.
I say this because the chance of both items being lost (or intercepted) in the post is too high 
for this to be what I believe happened here.
What I do know from NatWests audit records is:
All of the cash withdrawals were properly authenticated in line with the requirements 
of the PSRs. Im in no doubt the genuine card and PIN were used.
The PIN was changed on 26 March. There is no reason why an unknown third-party 
would change the PIN if theyd intercepted both the card and PIN as this would be an 
unnecessary step for them to take.
Funds were only credited to Miss Fs account from her old account on 29 March.
A balance enquiry was made using Miss Fs new debit card and changed PIN on 
30 March. This suggests to me that someone was expecting funds to be received 
into the account. An unknown third-party would most likely have used the debit card 
and PIN to try and make withdrawals or purchases as soon as this fell into their 
hands. Theres also no way an unknown third-party would have known the account 
was empty at the time the card and PIN were being sent and would have checked 
this immediately on receipt.
The first cash machine withdrawal was made on 31 March. A fraudster would have  
at the very least  tried to make a withdrawal on 30 March when they knew what 
funds existed in the account.
Cash machine withdrawals then took place over the forthcoming week until 
practically all funds had been used.
I can appreciate why Miss F has asked why NatWest seemed to reject her fraud claim just 
because they didnt believe the usage of her card and PIN reflected what they see when an 
unknown fraudster is involved. Im always wary of suggesting there are known fraud patterns 
which dictate how we view disputed transactions. However what I cant dispute is that 
whoever had access to Miss Fs card and PIN didnt expect Miss F to notice what was going 
on or feel the need to rush and take out as much money as quickly as possible. There were 
also no attempted transactions to purchase any goods.
Miss F has also wondered why NatWest was only alerted after the cash was withdrawn. 
Actually from what I can see, it was the attempt to log onto the account from an overseas 
location on 11 April which led to the account being blocked, rather than the cash withdrawals 
themselves. 
Separately Miss F has asked why NatWest didnt assist the police investigation. Im sure 
they would have done if requested to by the police but as far as I know Miss F notified Action 
Fraud of the disputed cash machine withdrawals. Im not convinced there was an active 
police investigation, as this wouldnt be the norm in these cases.
I can confirm that I have considered the PSRs when reviewing these disputed withdrawals. 
Miss F is correct that both authentication and consent are required for transactions to be 
authorised. I also note Miss F has told us she didnt consent to the transactions.
Overall and based on the evidence, I think Miss F authorised the transactions most likely by allowing someone else to use her card. I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Fs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman