DRN-1597575
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2003 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing 
else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mrs R says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this over 16 years later. I say 
this because I say this because AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement for the 
store card. To get the PPI, Mrs R had to sign her name in a box for it. The box is signed and 
Mrs R has signed the form again at the bottom of the form for the credit, which most likely 
denotes her agreement with the forms contents. Ive noted that theres no language on any 
documentary evidence that suggests the credit is dependent on taking out PPI. So, it seems 
most likely that Mrs R chose to take the cover, and would have been given a choice about 
doing so. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
The information AXA gave Mrs R about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I think its likely Mrs R would have had some understanding that it would pay a 
benefit if she wasnt able to work because she was sick or became unemployed. And as I 
think Mrs R chose to take out the PPI, it seems like she was interested in this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Rs circumstances at the time it seems that she was eligible 
for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. And it appears that Mrs R would have benefitted from the cover. I say this because Mrs R 
told us that she had no sick pay and no other means she could rely on if anything went 
wrong. So I think the PPI could be useful for her.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs R off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman