DRN-3361710
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) unfairly terminated a hire purchase agreement for a car.
What happened
In August 2018 Mrs S entered into a hire purchase agreement for 48 months with VWFS for 
a car. Under the agreement Mrs S was to pay £295.97 for 47 months and in the 48th month 
she could pay a lump sum of just over £8,000 if she wished to keep the car.
Mrs S says that in April 2020 she contacted VWFS to seek a payment holiday due to the 
financial impact that covid had had on her. She says she was asked to complete an online 
form in which she set out a request for a two-month deferral. Mrs S also says she got a letter 
from VWFS saying that the holiday period had been granted and this would be added to the 
end of the account.
However, VWFS says that no payment holiday was agreed with Mrs S. It says that when Mrs 
S contacted it about a possible deferral in April 2020 it had responded by email seeking 
further information from her in order to assess her financial situation and how it could best 
assist her. VWFS says Mrs S didnt reply. VWFS says no further action was taken about a 
payment holiday.
Mrs S didnt make a payment in April 2020 for the car and adverse information about the 
missed payment was recorded on her credit file. Mrs S contacted VWFS in July 2020 about 
what had been reported. Mrs S says VWFS didnt inform her at that time that she was in 
arrears, but it had agreed to remove the adverse information. 
Mrs S made no payment towards the car in May 2020. She says she emailed VWFS seeking 
to extend the payment holiday for a further month but, on hearing nothing back from it, made 
a payment for the car in June 2020. Mrs S says she has continued to make payments under 
the account although there was a period when she had to do so via BACS following a 
problem with the direct debit that had been set up. The direct debit was reinstated in January 
2021.
In May 2020 VWFS sent Mrs S a notice of sums in arrears for the two missing payments. 
Reminders were also sent in June and July 2020. At the end of July 2020, a default notice 
was sent to Mrs S seeking the arrears to be cleared by August 2020 and warning her that 
failure to do so could result in the agreement being terminated.
In October 2020 another notice of sums in arrears was sent in respect of the two missed 
payments. And in February 2021 a reminder notice about the two months of arrears was 
again sent to Mrs S followed by a default notice in March 2021. A further notice of sums in 
arrears was sent in March 2021 and a new default notice was sent to Mrs S in April 2021.
VWFS says that in additions to the notices it sent Mrs S numerous text messages asking her 
to contact it as well as attempting to contact her via the phone. It says it received no 
response. 
In August 2021 a further default notice was sent and following its expiry with no payments 
made by Mrs S towards the arrears, VWFS made the decision to terminate the agreement in 
October 2021.
Mrs S says she didnt receive any of VWFSs letters and although she had received the text 
messages, she had thought these were fraudulent. She says she was only aware of the 
decision to terminate the agreement when she received a letter from the third-party company 
that had been instructed to collect the car. Mrs S complained to VWFS about its decision to 
terminate the agreement.
VWFS didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said it had made numerous efforts to contact Mrs 
S, but she hadnt responded. It said the account had been in arrears and Mrs S had been 
notified that she needed to clear these or a decision to terminate the agreement could be 
made.
Mrs S was unhappy at VWFSs decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that although there had 
been some confusion as to which months hadnt been paid this was because payments 
made by Mrs S from June 2020 onwards had been put towards the arrears rather than 
applying to the month they had been made. However, there was evidence that two payments 
had been missed in April and May 2020. Our investigator said Mrs S had been contacted 
many times by VWFS over the arrears but hadnt responded. He said the termination of the 
agreement was in line with the agreements terms and conditions. 
Mrs S disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said VWFS had agreed a payment 
holiday for April and May 2020. Mrs S also said she contacted VWFS in respect of her credit 
file, but it hadnt informed her at that time she was in arrears nor was she told there was no 
payment deferral in place. 
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says the reason she missed the two payments was because VWFS had agreed a 
payment holiday due to the impact of the pandemic on her financial situation. VWFS says 
that no such agreement was in place though it agrees Mrs S did make contact via email 
requesting one. Ive seen that VWFS responded to Mrs Ss enquiry by seeking further 
information from her and that it provided a form to be completed. Looking at the information 
that has been provided by VWFS I think its reasonable to say that it had a standardised 
process in place when payment holidays were requested. And that this process required the 
customer to provide various details about their income and expenses. I havent seen any 
evidence that Mrs S replied to VWFS. 
Mrs S says she called VWFS in May 2020 and again requested a payment holiday and this 
was agreed. She says the agent told her the payments for April and May 2020 would be 
deferred until December 2020 and January 2021. Mrs S says she was also given a website 
address to use and that it was this address that she used when asking for a further 
extension. Mrs S says VWFS didnt respond to her request for a further extension. Mrs S 
also says she was sent a letter confirming a three-month holiday had been agreed.
However, VWFS says, having checked its records, it can find no record of a call made by 
Mrs S in May 2020 and that the website address she has quoted isnt linked to it. I have also reviewed the notes created by VWFS for Mrs Ss account, and I cant see a record of her 
calling VWFS about a payment holiday though her email request and the sending her of the 
form to be completed in April 2020 are all shown. 
Looking at the evidence, I cant reasonably say that Mrs S completed and returned the 
finance form provided to her by VWFS as was required. And as that form was a necessary 
part of VWFSs process when considering requests for payment holidays I dont think VWFS 
had agreed for Mrs S to have a two-month payment holiday. Mrs S says she received a 
letter confirming this holiday, but I havent seen a copy of this letter or any email sent from 
VWFS to Mrs S informing that her payments had been deferred. 
I also havent seen any evidence that Mrs S sought to have the holiday period extended with 
VWFS. The email she has provided to show she made this request has an email address 
that VWFS says has no link to itself. And I havent seen any evidence that VWFS provided 
this email address to Mrs S to use. So, although this will be of disappointment to Mrs S, Im 
satisfied that she missed payments in April and May 2020 which were due under the 
agreement. I think VWFS was therefore entitled to treat her account as being in arrears.
Mrs S has raised that VWFS agreed to remove adverse information from her credit file when 
she later complained about it recording missing payments. She says that VWFS would have 
only taken this action if a payment holiday had been agreed. Mrs S also asks why VWFS 
didnt raise with her that time that her account was in arrears.
VWFS says that due to Mrs S contact in April 2020 which raised she was suffering a 
financial impact due to covid, it flagged her agreement to indicate this for the next three 
months. It says that it had been agreed that all flagged accounts would not experience a 
worsening impact on their credit file and monthly amendments were made to remove any 
adverse markers with credit reference agencies. So, I dont think the removal of adverse 
information from Mrs Ss credit file was due to VWFS acknowledging that there had been a 
payment holiday in place for Mrs S, but rather this appears to have been due to its policy 
about not recording adverse information that had arisen through financial difficulty caused by 
covid.
Ive seen from the contact notes that Mrs S called VWFS about an arrears letter in July 2020 
and she was passed to collections. I dont know what was said to her during this call, so I 
dont know whether Mrs S raised her belief about having had a payment holiday agreed at 
that point. However, I think its unlikely VWFS confirmed to her that there had been a 
payment holiday because there is no information on her account that would lead an agent to 
think that this was the case. 
Ive seen that there was then no further contact with Mrs S until the direct debits for 
December 2020 and January 2021 were returned by the bank. Mrs S then arranged to pay 
these instalments and a new direct debit was arranged. Again, VWFS agreed not to report 
any adverse information about this account on Mrs Ss credit file but I dont think this 
supports that a payment holiday had been agreed earlier in the year.
I appreciate that it appears VWFS wasnt as clear as it could have been with Mrs S at this 
time about the arrears. And there was some confusion as to which payments she had 
missed because of the process in place whereby any monthly payments she made went to 
clearing the arrears first. This appears to have given the impression the arrears had built up 
later than they had. However, as set out above, Im satisfied there were two monthly 
payments that hadnt been paid and that these werent due to the actions of VWFS having 
agreed a payment holiday and then not honouring that.
I also cant say VWFS didnt subsequently take steps to inform Mrs S about the arrears that had built up on her account when she spoke with it. But Ive seen that between February and 
October 2021, Mrs S was sent various text messages, had at least one voice mail message 
left and had various notices of arrears and default notices sent. Ive seen that Mrs S says 
that while she received the text messages, she thought they were a scam and took no 
action, but she didnt get any of the letters/notices.
I dont know why none of the notices were received by Mrs S as they were all properly 
addressed, I cant fairly say this was the fault of VWFS. I also think that as there had been 
issues with her account that it would have been reasonable for Mrs S to have checked with 
VWFS about the validity of the various texts she was receiving. I dont know whether she 
received the voice mail message.
Ive seen that due to the lack of contact from Mrs S, that in October 2021 the recoveries 
team attempted to contact her by both phone and email, but again without success. It was 
following this, that the decision to terminate the agreement due to the arrears was made.
Although this will be of disappointment to Mrs S, I cant say that VWFS acted unreasonably 
or unfairly when deciding to terminate this agreement. It had taken reasonable steps to make 
contact with her over several months and the account remained in arrears. Under the terms 
of the agreement, which Mrs S had signed and agreed to be bound by, it states missing 
payments could have severe consequences and make obtaining credit more difficult. It may 
lead to us serving a default notice on you, on the expiry of which we may terminate the 
agreement.  Im satisfied on the evidence that Ive seen, that VWFS was entitled to 
terminate Mrs Ss agreement when it did.
I understand that the default which is now recorded on Mrs Ss credit file has had a negative 
impact on her obtaining credit. But as I think VWFS was entitled to terminate the agreement 
due to the unpaid arrears then I cant fairly ask it to remove this information. VWFS is 
obliged to record accurate information about how a consumer manages an account to the 
credit reference agencies.
So, for the reasons given above Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint as I dont think VWFS 
has acted unfairly in terminating the agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and although I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs S, 
Im not upholding her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman