DRN-3944645
The complaint
Mr Zs complaint is about Metro Bank PLC. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. 
Having considered all the evidence provided, I agree with the conclusions reached by the 
investigator for these reasons: 
Metro Bank decided to close Mr Zs accounts following an internal review. While I can 
understand this may have been frustrating for Mr Z, it is a commercial decision for 
Metro Bank as to who it provides its services to. As in this case Metro Bank provided 
Mr Z with 60 days notice of the closure of his accounts, I find it gave him reasonable 
notice to allow him to make alternative arrangements. Therefore, as Metro Bank 
acted in line with the account terms and conditions and provided reasonable notice, I 
do not find I can say it did anything wrong in regard to the account closures.
There was still an outstanding balance on Mr Zs credit card account when the 
account was closed. It was Mr Zs responsibility to ensure the credit card balance 
had been repaid before the account closure, but this didnt happen. Given the 
account had been closed I do not find that Metro Bank did anything wrong by 
applying a restriction to the account at the closure date.
Mr Z tried to repay the outstanding balance on his credit card account but 
experienced issues due to the restriction on the account. Metro Bank has explained 
the process that needs to happen in these situations and that the restriction needed 
to be lifted before the repayment could be made. While I can see this did happen, 
and Mr Z was able to repay the outstanding balance, he was caused inconvenience 
before this due to receiving incorrect information. Metro Bank accepted that a 
mistake was made in regard to the information it gave Mr Z and this resulted in him 
being inconvenienced by visiting a Metro store and not being able to make his 
repayment. Given this it paid him £80. While I note Mr Z doesnt feel this 
compensation is sufficient, given the information provided and the impact this had I 
find this a reasonable response to the issues raised.
Mr Z says that the issues with his account have caused him stress, depression and 
other health problems. I am sorry to hear of the upset he has been caused. However, 
in this case as I do not find that Metro Bank did anything wrong in regard to the 
closure of his accounts, and that it provided reasonable compensation for the 
incorrect information provided in response to Mr Zs attempt to repay his outstanding 
balance, I do not require Metro Bank to do anything further in response to his 
complaint.
Mr Z said that he didnt receive all the information he should have following his 
Subject Access Request. As has already been noted, breaches of legislation such as 
the GDPR and the Data Protection Act, are the responsibility of the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO). However, we can consider how a business has handled 
the request and whether how it has dealt with an individuals personal data has 
caused any loss or distress. In this case, if Mr Z feels there is information missing 
from the data sent to him, he should contact Metro Bank about this. As, in this case, I 
have nothing to suggest that its handling of this process has caused Mr Z any loss I 
havent considered this any further. 
Mr Z says that the balances on his closed accounts havent been returned to him. 
Metro Bank has confirmed that there are £10 balances on three of Mr Zs accounts 
and that he can collect these funds from any store with his identification. 
Mr Z says that he didnt receive the compensation cheque that was offered. Metro 
Bank has confirmed this was sent to Mr Z but hasnt been cashed and so it has 
arranged for another cheque to be sent to Mr Z which I find reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Metro Bank PLC to do anything further in resolution 
of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman