DRN-3024247
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trusttwo) granted him guarantor 
loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
In January 2015, Mr M took out a loan for £3,000 with Trusttwo. The loan was to be repaid 
over 24 months with the repayments set at £173.98 a month.
In November 2017, Mr M took out a second loan with Trusttwo for £5,500, which was to be 
paid off over 36 months in repayments of £240.16 a month.
In July 2019, Mr M took out a third loan with Trusttwo. He borrowed £7,100 of which 
£3,524.37 was to consolidate his existing debt and £3,575.63 was in cash. The monthly 
repayments were £311.49 over a term of 36 months.
Mr M later complained that the lending was unaffordable. He said Trusttwo hadnt carried out 
sufficient checks prior to approving the loan and it should have seen from his credit file that 
he was in financial difficulty.
Trusttwo said it had carried out affordability checks which included gathering information 
from Mr M and credit searches. These showed that all three loans were affordable. 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ms concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Trusttwo had made fair lending decisions for the first and third loan. He didnt think Trusttwo 
had carried out sufficient checks before approving the second loan. But Mr M hadnt 
provided information to show that this was unaffordable.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He provided bank statements for the months 
leading up to the approval of the second loan. But he said he wasnt able to provide 
statements for his second bank account for that period. He said he thought the six defaults 
showing on his credit file prior to the second loan being granted were enough to show that 
Trusttwo shouldnt have lent him the money. So, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules, regulations and guidance required Trusttwo to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr M could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner.  
The checks needed to be borrower-focused. It wasnt enough for Trusttwo to think only 
about the likelihood of getting its money back. It also had to ensure that making the 
repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or have adverse consequences for him. 
 
There isnt a set list of checks that lenders need to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking a number of factors into consideration. These factors include the 
amount, type and cost of the credit as well as the personal circumstances of the consumer.
Loan 1
Trusttwo gathered information from Mr M before agreeing the first loan for £3,000 in January 
2015. It asked for information about his employment and housing costs and it checked his 
credit file.
Mr M told Trusttwo he was living with his parents and paying £300 a month in rent. He had 
no dependants. He said hed been employed for one year and was earning £2,000 a month. 
His reason for taking out the loan was for a car. The credit search showed Mr M had one 
loan with a balance of £399 and two revolving credit accounts with a total balance of £1,384. 
Trusttwo estimated Mr Ms living expenses to be £700 a month. It calculated that Mr M would 
have been left with a disposable of income of £739 after taking off a further £174 for the new 
loan repayment. 
I think the checks carried Trusttwo carried out before granting the first loan were 
proportionate and indicated that the loan repayments were affordable. So, I think Trusttwos 
lending decision for the first loan was reasonable.
Loan 2
In November 2017 Trusttwo granted Mr M a second loan for £5,500 to be paid back over 36 
months. Trusttwo says Mr M applied for the loan over the phone and said he was looking to 
purchase a van. 
Trusttwo says it reviewed Mr Ms bank statements and it used the lowest of the two entries 
for his salary, which was £1,456 a month. It estimated Mr Ms living expenses by using 35% 
of this.
Trusttwo says a credit search was carried out to establish Mr Ms credit history and 
outstanding debt. It carried out an affordability assessment and worked out that Mr M would 
have had approximately £590 disposable income remaining. 
Trusttwo has sent us information from Mr Ms credit file which shows defaults on six 
accounts from July 2015 to April 2016. Trusttwo says it discussed the defaults with Mr M in 
the application call and he said that these happened as a result of him losing his job 
following an injury.
Although Trusttwo says it reviewed Mr Ms bank statements, it hasnt provided us with copies 
of these. Our investigator asked Mr M to provide statements for the three months leading up 
to the loan application to establish what Trusttwo saw (or should have seen) if it had carried 
out proportionate checks. 
Mr M has sent us statements for one of his bank accounts. But these dont give a full picture 
of Mr Ms financial situation at the time. They show money being transferred between the 
account and another bank account belonging to Mr M. There are also some transfers to 
other people, cash withdrawals and small transactions to supermarkets, petrol stations etc. These statements dont give an indication of any financial commitments Mr M might have 
had (for eg. bills, loan repayments). Mr M says hes tried to obtain statements from his bank 
other account but has been unable to do so. Without these, Im unable to establish if 
Trusttwos estimate of Mr Ms outgoings was too low.
I appreciate Mr M feels that Trusttwo shouldnt have granted him the loan because of the 
defaults on his credit file. But this isnt enough to say Trusttwo shouldnt have granted the 
loan. Trusttwo says Mr M explained the reasons for the defaults and had said he was in a 
better financial position when he applied for the loan. And I havent seen enough evidence to 
persuade me that the loan was unaffordable for Mr M.
Loan 3
Trusttwo says Mr M applied for the third loan in July 2019 over the phone. It says Mr M said 
the purpose was for debt consolidation and a new van. It says Mr M said he was employed 
and earning £1,800 a month and this was verified.  He was living with a parent and paying 
£400 a month in rent.  Trusttwo used Office of National Statistics data to determine Mr Ms 
monthly living expenses which were estimated to be £538.
Trusttwo says Mr M said that previous defaults had occurred when he was younger, and he 
was paying the debts back. It carried out a credit search to establish Mr Ms credit history 
and outstanding debt. It calculated that Mr M would have had approximately £464 of 
disposable income remaining after taking the new loan into consideration.
Im not satisfied from the information Trusttwo has provided, that the checks it carried out 
before granting the third loan were proportionate. So, Ive gone on to consider what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Mr M has provided bank statements for the three months leading up to the approval of the 
third loan. The money coming in from Mr Ms employer is higher than the amount Trusttwo 
used for its affordability calculation. I cant see that Mr M had commitments or expenses that 
should have given Trusttwo reason to believe that he wouldnt have been able to sustainably 
repay the loan. So, I dont think additional checks would have shown the lending to be 
unaffordable.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr M. Its possible that the checks Trusttwo 
carried out for the second and third loan werent as thorough as they should have been. But I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that the lending was unaffordable for Mr M.
Although Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, Id like to remind Trusttwo of its duty to treat 
him positively and sympathetically if hes having difficulty repaying the remaining loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman