DRN-2612435
The complaint
A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) stopped its account.
What happened
On 18 October 2019, Barclays placed a block on As account  to complete a regulatory 
review. The block was removed on 4 November 2019.
A complains that because of the block, it was unable to trade. It was unable to pay suppliers 
and sub-contractors for two weeks. As director claims it lost £14,217.60 as a result of the 
restrictions.
Barclays said the account was suspended while an internal investigation took place. It could 
do this as it was in its terms and conditions. Also, its Business Customer Agreement said 
that Barclays didnt have to pay for any loss of business  so they wouldnt reimburse A. 
They had told A that the review would take ten working days  and because the account was 
blocked for an extra day - they paid offered to pay compensation of £75. They noted that As 
director had made a similar complaint in connection with his personal account and that they 
paid compensation of £225 there.
A brought its complaint to this service. Our investigator said Barclays were entitled to carry 
our such a review  in line with its legal and regulatory responsibilities. Nor did it have to 
explain its actions. And it wasnt liable to pay for any loss of business. 
A asked that its complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate where A is coming from. Barclays blocked its account without any notice  
and for two weeks, it couldnt pay its staff, suppliers or contractors. A told us it couldnt trade 
for that time. This must have been frustrating and worrying for A and its directors.
But - my role here is to decide whether Barclays have made an error or acted unreasonably. 
I dont think they have. Ill explain why.
A considers what happened seemed harsh. But, in considering what happened here, banks 
have a responsibility to carry out reviews of this sort at their discretion. They are required to 
do this by regulators and other authorities. And  they dont have to advise customers in 
advance. Ive looked at Barclays terms and conditions  called its Business Customer 
Agreement  dated 13 January 2018. This says they can suspend accounts for a variety of 
reasons  these are listed at section 4.13 it says However, we dont have to follow an 
instruction (to make payments) if:. 
 by carrying out the instruction we might break a law, regulation, code or other duty that 
applies to us, or it might expose us to claims from third parties or damage our reputation
 we reasonably believe that following it might expose us (or another Barclays company) to 
legal action or censure from any government, regulator or law enforcement agency. Well tell 
you if you try to make such a payment 
 we reasonably think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to fraud or any 
other criminal activity, including where the funds are being obtained through deception
And, the terms say the review may take time: While we are checking that none of the 
reasons above apply, there might be a delay in getting the payment to its destination  even 
if everything turns out to be fine 
They go on to say that Barclays arent responsible for any loss of business either. Section 
8.20 says You cannot claim back (a loss) if: you are claiming for loss of business, loss of 
goodwill, loss of opportunity or loss of profit  we wont be liable for these in any 
circumstances. So  under the terms, Barclays dont have to pay A for any loss of 
business.
A opened its account with Barclays in 2010. It has reasonably asked what terms and 
conditions applied to it. But in January 2018  these new terms were introduced and 
replaced those which were in place when A opened its account. Ive seen the letter dated 9 
October 2017 which was sent to A  and it says Updating your terms and conditions. There 
will be some changes to the way you bank with us from 13 January 2018. Your terms and 
conditions are being updated to reflect this, and theyll be available at any branch from that 
date  or you can get a copy online. So  these are the terms that applied at the time of 
the review in question. A says that its asked for a copy of this from Barclays  Id suggest 
that Barclays send a copy to A.
Barclays told A that their review would take ten working days. Unfortunately, they took 11 
days  so Barclays apologised for that and offered compensation of £75. I can also see that 
As director complained to Barclays about the restrictions on his personal account  and 
Barclays paid compensation to him of £225.
So  I have decided that Barclays were acting within their regulatory and legal 
responsibilities  and its terms and conditions - in carrying out the review of As account in 
the way it did. I can see that A feels strongly about this, and will be disappointed by my 
decision, but Im not going to ask Barclays to do anymore here. If A wish to accept Barclays 
offer of compensation of £75, they should get in touch with them so payment can be made.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman