DRN-4164752
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint concerns the sale of investments held in her Sterling Bond Portfolio with 
Santander UK Plc. She feels that the sale shouldve been made when she originally 
requested it in 2020 and as it wasnt she was then pressured into making the sale at a loss 
in October 2022.   
What happened
In 2010 Mrs C invested a total of £35,000 into the Santander Sterling Corporate Bond Fund 
(which later became the portfolio, administered through the Santander Investment Hub). The 
sum was split £5,100 into a stocks and shares ISA and £29,900 into a Direct Investment. 
In January 2020 Mrs C completed an ISA transfer form in a Santander branch to move that 
part of the investment to a cash ISA. The transfer completed successfully. She says at the 
same time, with the help of a staff member, she wrote a letter requesting that the Direct 
Investment also be sold. However, that sale didnt complete. 
Later, in October 2022, having received a statement for the portfolio, Mrs C attended a 
Santander Branch, and a call was arranged with Santanders call centre. The sale of the 
investment was completed on this occasion, but by this time its value had fallen from around 
£27,000 shown on the August 2022 statement to just under £25,000. Mrs C was very 
unhappy with this and wrote to Santander to complain.  
Santander didnt uphold the complaint and it was referred to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter but also didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She set out some 
general background to the investment, explaining that the sale of the portfolio appeared to 
have been carried out on an execution-only basis, so Mrs C had not been advised by 
Santander to take it out. The investigator said that information about various changes to the 
investment had been provided to Mrs C over the years, along with regular statements 
showing its ongoing value. And she noted that regular income payments had also been 
made to Mrs C. 
In respect of the main issue, the sale of the direct investment, the investigator explained that 
Santander had no record of receiving the sale instruction in 2020. She also felt that the call 
in October 2022 during which the sale had eventually been made was well handled and that 
the instruction was executed as it should have been.    
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators view. She explained in detail what had happened in 
2020 and expressed her disappointment that there was no record of the call made in branch 
at that time. She asked that the matter be reviewed in light of the stress and financial loss 
that had resulted from Santander not making the sale in 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I recognise Mrs C will be very disappointed, I find Ive come to the 
same conclusion as the investigator. I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
While it isnt the main reason for her complaint, Mrs C has, as noted, raised concerns about 
her understanding of the investment. So, I think that for completeness its worth me just 
touching on that issue first. 
Due to the time thats passed since she started the investment in 2020 theres little 
information available concerning how it originally came about. But I think its most likely that 
it was an execution-only sale, with Santander simply providing information about the 
portfolio, as opposed to assessing the investments suitability for Mrs C. 
As the portfolio focussed on corporate bonds, it wouldve been a lower-risk investment and 
while there were some changes made to it over the years, these seem to have been 
communicated to Mrs C. Overall, Ive not seen that Santander did anything wrong in respect 
of providing the investment to Mrs C in the first instance, or in its subsequent administration.
Which bring me on to the events of January 2020, which are at the heart of the complaint. 
Its apparent Mrs C did take steps to sell the investment at that time. As noted, she 
completed the transfer for the ISA element successfully. But the issue lies with the other part 
of the investment. Shes provided a copy of a letter she says was written with the assistance 
of a staff member in the Santander branch, which requests that the investment be sold and 
the proceeds paid to her regular saver account. The letter is dated 2 January 2020, the 
same date as the ISA transfer form was completed.
Mrs C has provided a lot of detail about the appointment she had in the branch in January 
2020 and Ive no reason to think her version of events is not accurate. However, the problem 
is that Santander has no record of receiving the letter and, understandably nearly three 
years on, Mrs C has no proof of it having been sent. This being so, while I understand its 
frustrating, I dont think I can reasonably hold Santander responsible for the sale not 
happening in 2020. 
Following Mrs Cs attempt to sell the investment the covid epidemic developed, causing 
great difficulties for many people, Mrs C included, and she has my sympathy for all that 
shes been through. But I think its fair to note that it wouldve been clear from the 
documentation she received after the successful ISA transfer that the sale of the direct 
investment hadnt also completed. The proceeds didnt arrive in her saver account as 
intended and she continued to receive regular statements that wouldve shown that she was 
still invested. Indeed, it as one of these statements, received in August 2022, that prompted 
her to act. 
I can entirely understand how the sale of the direct investment element not completing might 
have got overlooked given subsequent events. But it nevertheless did remain Mrs Cs 
responsibility to keep oversight of the matter. In all the circumstances, I dont think 
Santander are at fault for the sale not having happened earlier and therefore I cant direct it 
to pay the difference in value between when Mrs C first wanted to sell and when she 
eventually did. 
I know it will have been very disappointing for Mrs C to have received only just under 
£25,000 in October 2022, particularly given the value was higher only a few months earlier. 
But while I recognise itll be of little consolation, I think its worth just highlighting the fact that 
the ISA part was transferred in January 2020 at a value that originally invested, and Mrs C 
also received a regular monthly income throughout the period of investment.             My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman