DRN-3462661
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain through their claims management company (CMC) that they were 
mis-sold solar panels by a firm with the help of a second mortgage provided by Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax and that Halifax are jointly and severally liable for any breach 
of contract or misrepresentation under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A approached Halifax in 2016 for a further advance to complete some home
Improvements which were fitting solar panels which was hoped would provide them with an 
annual saving. Mr and Mrs A had been looking to raise £11,000 for installation of the solar 
panels.
During the application process Halifax completed checks with their underwriters to ensure 
theyd be no impact on their charge over the property and consented to the installation.
Mr and Mrs A got an offer on 16 December 2016 to borrow the £11,000 they required over 
seven years on a repayment mortgage loan. This went ahead in January 2017.
Mr and Mrs A have had several issues with the solar panels and the supplier. As the supplier 
is no longer trading, they would like Halifax to reimburse them as the CMC says that the 
lender is jointly and severally liable to Mr and Mrs A with the supplier under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Halifax declined the complaint saying that as regard the loan itself that 
at the time it was taken out, the product was affordable and suitable to Mr and Mrs A s 
needs and that any complaint about the solar panels purchased is the responsibility of the 
supplier. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt 
believe that Halifax had any responsibility for the actions of the solar panel supplier. Mr and 
Mrs As CMC disagreed saying that our investigator hadnt dealt with this as a Section 75 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs A have many complaints against the company that supplied them with solar 
panels. They say the product was misrepresented to them, the sales team used high 
pressure techniques and were aggressive to get them to sign the sales contract and the 
solar panels didnt produce the yield that was promised. Apparently. the company is no 
longer trading. Mr and Mrs As CMC bring this complaint against Halifax because it says that 
its jointly and severally liable to Mr and Mrs A under the Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act. 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act is a section that in certain circumstances allows a 
consumer to pursue a claim against a lender where a supplier fails to meet its obligations. 
Its often and perhaps mainly used where goods have been bought by credit card. But for it 
to apply there first needs to be a credit agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act and 
even then, Section 75 doesnt apply to all such agreements such as in the case of a 
personal loan. 
In this case Halifax provided a loan by way of additional borrowing on Mr and Mrs As 
existing mortgage. That loan is subject to the MCOB regulations that apply to mortgages. 
The documentation such as the mortgage illustration and mortgage offer comply with those 
regulations. This loan is a regulated mortgage contract but not a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and so Section 75 wouldnt apply to this loan. I cant see that Halifax can or 
should be held responsible for the actions of the solar panel supplier. It merely supplied a 
loan at Mr and Mrs As request which was added to the mortgage. So, for the above reasons 
I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman