DRN-2746318
The complaint
Mr B complained that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (FOL) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with FOL as follows: 
loan start date date repaidmonthly 
instalmentsloan 
amountinstalment 
amount
19/12/2018 Not paid 5 £110 £43.29
Mr B complained that FOL lent to him without doing sufficient checks into his credit history 
which he told us included defaults and a record of missed payments. At the time he took out 
this loan he said he already owed money to 15 other creditors and that the loan FOL 
provided pushed him further into debt. Mr B said that if FOL had asked to see his bank 
statements before lending to him it wouldve realised that he couldnt afford the loan and that 
lending to him was irresponsible. This has all impacted badly on Mr Bs mental health and 
left him struggling to manage his priority bills. 
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. In brief summary, he thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr B for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr B provided, or the information FOL 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that FOL shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr B had declared
the number of loans Mr B took, the amounts they were for or the period of time he 
was borrowing meant his loan history, on its own, wasnt enough to have shown FOL 
that he mightve been experiencing underlying financial difficulty. 
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mainly, he felt that although there was no 
obligation on FOL to do so, it shouldve looked at bank statements in his particular case - his 
credit record was poor and he had overstated his income on the application. Mr B said that if 
FOL had checked his bank statements it wouldnt have given him the loan. 
As the complaint hasnt been settled informally it comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr B that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. Ill explain why I say this.
FOL provided Mr B with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should 
have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. 
Theres no set list of checks that are proportionate. In general, what constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors including  but 
not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Bs income and expenditure. And, for a first loan, less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
As this was the first loan Mr B had taken out with FOL, Mr B didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted FOL to any underlying money problems. 
It wasnt an unusually large loan, given the take home pay he had declared. 
And Mr B was planning to pay the loan back over 5 months  which, broadly speaking, in 
Mr Bs circumstances was a reasonably foreseeable period of time. 
Before lending to Mr B, FOL asked him for information about his financial situation. FOL 
independently checked the amount of Mr Bs pay and had no reason to think that the figure 
Mr B had declared wasnt a broadly reasonable indicator of his likely monthly income. 
FOL asked Mr B about his outgoings, including what he was spending on other loans. Using 
this information, FOL was able to see what his monthly budget typically looked like.  
FOL gathered information that enabled it to work out how much money Mr B would have 
available to spend after paying his normal monthly outgoings  it calculated that his monthly 
surplus was more than £2000. So it was satisfied that the loan repayments for this loan 
shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr B.I agree that looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the 
information FOL had on record for Mr B, including what Mr B told FOL, this didnt point to the 
loan being unaffordable for Mr B. 
After taking into account all the information FOL had gathered, it looked like Mr B shouldve 
had nearly £2000 left each month after paying for this loan. 
Mr B had told FOL that he lived with his parents and he paid only £90 each month towards 
household bills and rent, his credit payments were just £50 and £70 in total was spent on 
travel, food and drink. So what Mr B told FOL about his circumstances went a long way 
towards explaining why he didnt appear to need to spend much of his monthly income. 
FOL mightve wondered why someone with that much disposable income wanted to apply 
for a high cost loan. But I think its fair to say there are lots of reasons why someone in 
Mr Bs position might want a relatively small loan quickly  possibly in an emergency 
situation or to cover a one-off unexpected cost for instance. So I cant fairly say this is a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint.
Im very sorry that Mr B had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this 
loan turned out to be difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Bs actual circumstances 
werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information FOL 
obtained. 
But wed expect FOL to decide Mr Bs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. And although Mr B feels strongly that FOL 
shouldve done more or better checks, I dont think proportionate checks in these 
circumstances wouldve required FOL to probe any more deeply into Mr Bs finances or ask 
Mr B to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he 
had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances.
In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect FOL to have asked to see the credit report or 
bank statements that Mr B has sent me. And since that wasnt information that Mr B told 
FOL about, then FOL couldnt have known about it and I cant fairly say that FOL shouldve 
known about it. In this case, I dont think that FOL acted unreasonably when it decided to 
lend this loan to Mr B. 
Ive thought carefully about whether FOL has acted in any other way that isnt fair and 
reasonable  but I havent seen enough to make me think that it has. So I havent seen 
anything to make me think this is a case where it would be fair and reasonable  for me to 
award any redress. 
I take this opportunity to remind FOL that if Mr B needs further time to pay what he owes 
then it should treat him positively and sympathetically in any discussions. Our adjudicator 
has already sent Mr B some useful contact information. But if Mr B would like to talk about 
how he can get help with managing his finances theres more information about ways to 
access free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a 
call. 
I am sorry that Mr B has been going through a difficult time. I understand that what Ive said 
will come as a disappointment to him. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done 
will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman