DRN-3240612
The complaint
Mr B complains about the decision by Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) to terminate 
his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr B is covered by his employers group income protection scheme, the aim of which is to 
pay an income if he cant work because of illness or injury. The scheme has a 26-week 
deferred period.
In June 2019, Mr B stopped work because of cardiac problems. He then had heart surgery in 
September 2019, and cardiac rehabilitation until January 2020. Mr B later made a claim to 
Generali in June 2020. 
Generali accepted the claim, but thought the evidence suggested that Mr B could return to 
work after his cardiac rehabilitation had ended. It therefore accepted the claim, but allowing 
for a graduated return to work, it only paid benefit until 30 April 2020. Unhappy with this, 
Mr B brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Generalis decision 
to end the claim when it did was reasonable.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines incapacity as:
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and 
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other Work or 
occupation.
As Generali accepted the claim, and then chose to end it on 30 April 2020, the onus falls to 
Generali to show that Mr B no longer met the policy definition of incapacity at that time. 
I note that Mr Bs employer has confirmed that his job included driving for around two to 
three hours a day. He also needed to walk from his car to the establishment he was visiting. 
Our investigator referred to the available medical evidence in some detail, so I dont intend to 
repeat this here. Whilst Ive considered all the available evidence, I see that Mr B was under 
the care of a consultant cardiologist (Dr R) following his operation. I consider the greatest 
weight ought to be placed on Dr Rs opinion, as a treating specialist. 
On 16 April 2020, Dr R confirmed Mr B had been off work for around a year. Dr R explained 
that following surgery, Mr B had completed his cardiac rehabilitation. Dr R noted that Mr B 
hadnt driven much over the last year as he found it quite stressful, and Mr B didnt feel hed 
be able to return to his role. Dr R said that Mr B was wondering about the possibility of early 
retirement on the grounds of ill health, but they had explained to him that the purpose of the 
surgery was to restore him to his previous level of fitness. Therefore, Dr R didnt think that 
Mr Bs cardiac condition would be grounds for early retirement, though they said it may be 
reasonable to consider reducing the long working hours and driving commitment if this was 
seen to be a barrier to returning to work. Dr R didnt arrange any further appointments or 
investigations for Mr B. 
In September 2020, Dr R provided some further information. They said that Mr B had made 
a good recovery following his surgery and didnt have any cardiac symptoms. Mr B had been 
discharged from Dr Rs care in April 2020. Dr R said the purpose of Mr Bs treatment was to 
preserve his longevity and to restore his previous level of physical ability, without limitation 
from cardiac symptoms. Dr R thought that had been achieved, and that Mr Bs prognosis 
was good. Dr R acknowledged that Mr B had reported that he didnt think hed be able to do 
the long hours of driving associated with his role, but said I do not think that his [Mr Bs] 
current cardiac condition should be a bar to his returning to work.  
Given that Mr B had undergone a successful surgery, and had completed his cardiac 
rehabilitation, I think it was reasonable for Generali to conclude that Mr B could return to 
work after this. Dr R confirmed that theyd discharged Mr B in April 2020 and that he wasnt 
experiencing any cardiac symptoms. It's apparent that Dr R was aware that Mr Bs role 
involved a lot of driving, yet they didnt think Mr Bs condition would prevent him from 
returning to work. 
The other medical evidence explains that Mr B had lost confidence in driving, or that he no 
longer felt able to drive long distances. Though as our investigator has explained, this isnt a 
medical reason which prevented Mr B from doing this aspect of his role. Mr B also 
underwent an assessment for increased government benefits, and this concluded he had no 
functional restriction identified.
Overall, I think it was reasonable for Generali to rely on Dr Rs evidence, and conclude that 
Mr B could return to work after his cardiac rehabilitation had ended and hed been 
discharged from Dr Rs care in April 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman