DRN-3682729
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited settled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy as split liability. He wants this changed to non-fault and his costs 
reimbursed. 
 
What happened
Mr S was involved in an incident with a lorry. He said the other driver admitted liability at the 
scene but later changed his stance. Admiral said it couldnt prove that the other driver was at 
fault and it would most likely have to settle the claim as split liability. Mr S was unhappy that 
he would have to pay his policy excess and that his premiums would be affected. He 
decided to have his car repaired privately. Admiral paid Mr S £30 compensation for its poor 
communication. But Mr S wants the incident recorded as non-fault and his expenses 
reimbursed.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
was entitled by the policys terms and conditions to settle the claim as it saw fit. There were 
no independent witnesses or CCTV footage of the incident. There was no evidence to show 
that the other driver admitted liability. 
So he thought it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral to settle the claim as split liability and to 
avoid taking the matter to court. He thought it was Mr Ss decision to pay for his car repairs, 
so he didnt think Admiral was responsible for this. And he thought Admirals compensation 
for its poor communication was fair and reasonable.
Mr S replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said that he was in the lorrys blind spot and it had hit him. He said the other driver 
firstly admitted liability, but he later said they had collided when both had changed lanes and 
then that Mr S had run into him. I can understand that this must have been a very frightening 
experience for Mr S. I can also understand that he feels frustrated that Admiral has settled 
the claim as split liability. 
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr S the same as someone else in his position. 
Im satisfied that Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr S to 
take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr S has to follow its advice in connection 
with the settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a 
common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take 
a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better 
to compromise.
The evidence that Admiral had to consider was the two drivers versions of events and the 
damage to the vehicles. It thought this was consistent with both versions of events. There 
were no independent witnesses and no CCTV images available. Admiral noted that the other 
driver had changed his story, and it queried this. But without any further evidence it was one 
drivers word against the others. And it thought it would have to settle the claim as split 
liability. 
I think this was a reasonable decision in the circumstances and I dont require Admiral to 
change it. I think Admiral explained to Mr S that most lane changing cases were settled as 
split liability. So I think it reasonably managed his expectations. 
Mr S thought Admiral wasnt representing him. But I can see from its file that it pursued the 
other insurer to settle the claim as non-fault in Mr Ss favour. It wouldnt be able to take legal 
action against the other insurer as it had no costs to recover. So I think it did all it could to 
defend Mr Ss position. 
I can see that Admiral agreed that it hadnt updated Mr S as often as it should have, and he 
had to contact it. It paid him £30 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as 
its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Mr S wanted Admiral to reimburse his expenses. But I think it was Mr Ss decision to not 
make a claim and to pay for his own repairs. So I cant reasonably hold Admiral responsible 
for his costs.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman