DRN-2865544
The complaint
Ms K complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt renew her motor insurance policy as 
she requested. She wants compensation for the stress and inconvenience this caused her.
What happened
Ms K called UKI to renew her policy, but this wasnt actioned. She was later stopped by the 
police, fined £300 and given six points on her licence. Ms K said she called UKI 27 times 
over a month to try and resolve the problem, but it still said she hadnt renewed. UKI finally 
located the renewal call and accepted it had made an error. To put things right for Ms K, it 
gave her a letter of indemnity, reimbursed the fine and offered her £100 compensation. But 
Ms K was unhappy with this.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKI had 
made an initial mistake that had led to the police stopping Ms K. And then he thought it 
should have been able to locate the call and put things right. So he thought UKI should pay 
Ms K an extra £250 compensation for her inconvenience and stress.
UKI agreed to do this. But Ms K replied that she wanted £1,000 further compensation for her 
time spent and to stop UKI repeating its mistake. She said she had to provide her own call 
log to show that she had called to renew her policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that it must have been shocking and embarrassing for Ms K to be stopped 
by the police. I can see that UKI has accepted that this was due to its error as her renewal 
acceptance hadnt been processed as it should have been. When a business makes a 
mistake, as UKI accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as 
far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
I think UKI acted to restore Ms Ks position once it recognised its mistake. It provided a 
policy at the price originally quoted at renewal and refunded the difference for a new policy 
she had taken out. UKI provided Ms K with a letter of indemnity so she could have the points 
removed. And it reimbursed the fine she had paid.
But it took Ms K some effort to reach this point. She counted 27 calls that she had to make to 
UKI over a month to pursue the matter. She provided her own call log that showed the call 
on the day she said she made her renewal. And UKI was then able to locate and listen to the 
call. I think this must have been very stressful, frustrating and time consuming for Ms K.
UKI apologised for the error and offered her £100 compensation. But I agree that this isnt 
sufficient for the consequences of the initial error and then the trouble Ms K had in proving 
her case. Ms K wanted a level of compensation that would stop UKI repeating the mistake. 
But its not our role to punish businesses.
UKI explained that human error led to the initial mistake and it explained the steps it had 
taken to redress this. From what I can see, the time taken to locate the call was due to it not 
knowing that Ms K had called it from her mobile number and an unclear understanding of her 
complaint. 
Ms K wanted £1,000 further compensation. I understand that Ms K has a busy job, but I cant 
reasonably expect UKI to treat her differently to other consumers because of this. I think 
£250 additional compensation, as recommended by the investigator, is in keeping with the 
level Id award in similar circumstances. I think this, and the initial £100 compensation 
offered, fairly recognises the impact the error had on Ms K. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms K an additional £250 (£350 in total) compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service, as its already agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman