The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC Bank (UK) PLC (HSBC) blocked their account for 12 
days. They say they experienced poor customer service during this time, and that not having 
access to their account caused them to incur losses of £15,000.
What happened
On 15 July 2019, HSBC blocked Mr and Mrs Ms joint account. They had concerns that Mr 
and Mrs M were the victim of impersonation and asked them to attend branch with proof of 
identification. When Mr and Mrs M did so, HSBC told them it would investigate and complete 
its review by 23 July 2019.
Mr and Mrs M complained to HSBC, saying say they experienced poor customer service as 
they had to call several different departments, each of which referred them to a different 
department, until they were referred to branch.
HSBC removed the block on 29 July 2019 and called Mrs M the next day. It apologised for 
the poor customer service and offered to pay £150 in compensation. Mr and Mrs M rejected 
the offer and brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought HSBC was entitled to block Mr and Mrs Ms account while it carried 
out its review. But acknowledged the poor customer service, and said the block had 
continued for slightly longer than it could have done. She noted that HSBC had increased its 
offer to £250, which she thought was enough to put things right for Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. They say they incurred £15,000 of losses because of the block, 
including incurring tuition fees for their daughter, delayed rent and loss of income. HSBC 
then said it could have completed its review three days earlier and increased its offer to 
£350. Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the increased offer, and asked an ombudsman to consider 
the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied HSBC acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and 
reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms account. And that it was entitled to review the account under the 
account terms and conditions. While I accept the block was frustrating for Mr and Mrs M, 
HSBC took the action to protect Mr and Mrs Ms account. Which, in my decision, was a 
reasonable use of its powers.
DRN-1943416HSBC has given me a timeline of events that took place during the block. I can see it told Mr 
and Mrs M it would complete its review by 23 July 2019 (having originally said it would take 
up to a month), and that it accepts it couldve completed the review in that time.
But, having considered all of the evidence both parties have provided me with, I think it has 
done enough to compensate Mr and Mrs M for the delays and trouble and upset they 
experienced, by offering to pay them £350.
Ive looked at the evidence Mr and Mrs M have provided, but Im not satisfied they incurred 
losses (beyond the trouble and upset HSBC has offer to compensate them for) owing to 
HSBCs failings.
HSBC was entitled to block the account and review the identification it received. So I cant 
reasonably compensate Mr and Mrs M for any losses they incurred as a result of the block 
itself. I can only reasonably ask HSBC to compensate Mr and Mrs M for losses flowing from 
the delay it caused, which it accepts was from 23 July 2019.
The losses Mr and Mrs M claim, though, dont flow from the delay and arent supported by 
evidence. For example, Mr and Mrs M claim £2,059 for home expenses. But they are all 
items Mr and Mrs M would have incurred, whether or not their account was blocked.
Mr and Mrs M also claim lost income of £7,700 and tuition fees of £6,000. But Im not 
persuaded they were unable to work, simply because their account was blocked for a few 
days longer than it might have been. And Ive seen no evidence to support that claim, or to 
demonstrate they incurred late tuition fees because of HSBCs failings.
I cant reasonably ask HSBC to pay every expense Mr and Mrs M incurred while the block 
was in place, because they are not losses that flow from a mistake on the part of HSBC. I 
also havent seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate Mr and Mrs M actually incurred such 
losses.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman