DRN-2924580
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and closed his bank account. Mr D says this 
caused him a lot of problems and he wants the bank to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr D had a current account with Santander. 
In May 2020, the bank decided to review Mr Ds account. Whilst it completed the review it 
blocked the account. Following the review Santander decided to close Mr Ds account 
immediately and sent him a cheque for his closing balance.
 
Mr D says he found out that his account was blocked when he tried to pay for shopping in a 
supermarket and his card was declined. He says this was very embarrassing for him and 
that he had to take his wife back to the supermarket to pay for their shopping, which was 
inconvenient. Mr D also says that the bank wouldnt let him access his wages and didnt let 
him know his account was blocked. And he had to go to the trouble of rearranging lots of 
direct debits set up on his account when the bank closed it.
Santander said it had blocked and closed the account in line with the terms and conditions. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She said the bank hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ds account. And had completed its review in a 
reasonable timeframe.
  
Mr D disagreed. So, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the block and review of Mr Ds account. As the investigator has already 
explained, Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that 
Santander acted in accordance with these obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ds 
account. And it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. 
The bank also wasnt obliged to tell Mr D that it was carrying out a review or why. Santander 
doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. So, I cant say its 
done anything wrong by not giving Mr D this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to require it do so. So, whilst I appreciate Mr D was embarrassed when his bank card 
was declined and inconvenienced, I cant say the bank has treated Mr D unfairly when it 
blocked his account.
I appreciate that the timing of Santanders actions was unfortunate. Mr D says he was in the 
middle of trying to buy his shopping in a busy supermarket when he discovered his bank 
account was blocked. So, I can understand why he found this experience with Santander 
upsetting and why he wants Santander to pay him compensation. But as Ive already 
explained financial businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and 
regulations. Ive seen the evidence provided by Santander and I can see that in blocking the 
account Santander were following an internal process which they carried out in order to 
comply with their obligations. This was a legitimate exercise. So, it wouldnt be appropriate to 
make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe Santander acted 
inappropriately and treated Mr D unfairly in taking the actions it did.
Mr Ds also unhappy about how long the bank took to complete its review and release his 
funds. Santander completed its review in 14 days. But I dont consider that it would be right 
for me to conclude it shouldnt have taken in excess of any particular or specific timeframe. 
Because Santander is entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it did in order to comply 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. Having looked at the information provided by 
Santander, Im satisfied that it hasnt been responsible for any undue delays and progressed 
its review as quickly as possible. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr D 
compensation.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ds account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Mr Ds account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his account and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Santander closed Mr Ds 
account without notice. For Santander to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the account as its already done.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman