DRN-3307364
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi Financial 
Services.
What happened
Mrs W has been represented by her husband throughout this complaint but for ease, and 
because Mrs W is named on the finance agreement, Ill refer only to Mrs W in my decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs W acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I understand that Mrs W is unhappy about the service received from the dealership. This 
isnt something Im considering here. I believe Mrs W has referred that complaint to the 
Motor Ombudsman.
I also understand that Mrs W is concerned she was mis-sold the car. VWFS are considering 
that complaint and I can see our investigator has correctly advised that, should Mrs W 
remain dissatisfied with VWFSs response, she can then refer her complaint to this service.
In this decision I am therefore considering whether the car that was supplied to Mrs W was 
of satisfactory quality.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs W. The car was only a few 
months old and had only covered about 1,550 miles when it was supplied, so I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect much, or any, wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when VWFS were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. The fault with the satellite navigation system wasnt 
referred to the dealership until April 2021. As more than six months had passed since the car 
was supplied to Mrs W the relevant legislation puts the onus on her to demonstrate there is a 
fault and that that fault was present at the point the car was supplied to her.
I dont think Mrs W has been able to provide sufficient evidence that there was a fault with 
the satellite navigation system, and the dealership were unable to identify any fault despite 
looking at the car on several occasions. 
I dont think, for instance, that the photograph provided by Mrs W shows there to be a fault. 
Whilst it shows the system trying to navigate to the address Mrs W says it did regularly, I 
dont think it shows it was doing so in error. 
Ive also listened to all of the call recordings Mrs W has provided. Its very clear during these 
calls that Mrs W and Mr W have been very frustrated by the problems theyve been having 
with the satellite navigation. The representative from the dealership explains that the system 
hasnt been reset and the address, Mrs W says the car is erroneously sending them to, is 
still in the system. He also explains that no faults have been logged by the cars software. 
Whilst the calls demonstrate the problems Mrs W has been having I dont think they 
evidence that there was fault with the system. As the car had been in Mrs Ws possession 
for so long the onus was on Mrs W to demonstrate there was a fault that was present at the 
point of supply and Im afraid I dont think she has been able to do that.
Even if I was prepared to accept there was a problem with the car, I dont think there is 
evidence that any fault was present when the car was supplied. Thats because it was about 
17 months before Mrs W reported the issue to VWFS and I think any problem present at the 
point of supply would have been likely to show itself before then.
And, even if I was prepared to accept that there was a fault, and that fault was present when 
the car was supplied, the relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to fix such a 
problem. VWFS reset the multimedia interface in August 2021, so, I wouldnt ask them to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman