DRN-1844594
Complaint
Mr V complains Revolut Ltd unfairly closed his account.
Background
Mr V opened an account with Revolut in July 2019. In August 2019 he made a payment to 
his son, who resides and studies in another country.
Following this, Revolut reviewed Mr Vs account and decided to close the account with 
immediate effect. Revolut informed him its reason was based on him not fitting its risk 
criteria.
Mr V complained to Revolut. He believes Revolut misapplied the criteria applicable to a 
politically exposed person (PEP), which he is not, and closed his account on this basis. Mr V 
thinks a PEP marker is registered against him, but he shouldn't be considered a risk in the 
same way that a politically exposed person might be. As a result, he says Revoluts decision 
does not represent a legitimate exercise of its commercial discretion.
Mr V also says Revolut is in breach of the Financial Action Taskforce (FATF) guidelines and 
principle six of the Principles for Businesses, which form part of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook, which states A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Revolut didnt uphold the complaint. It says it was able to terminate its relationship with Mr V 
under the terms of his account, and it followed those terms correctly, so it wasnt reversing 
its decision.
Unhappy with this response, Mr V brought his complaint to our service. When he did, he 
revealed he has a prior criminal conviction, which is now spent. An investigator decided to 
not uphold the complaint. In summary, they found:
It didnt appear Revolut considered Mr V as a politically exposed person, as he didnt 
hold political office or a prominent public position. There was no evidence to show a 
PEP marker existed.
Revolut was able to simply terminate its agreement with Mr V in the same way he 
could decide not to be its customer.
Its understandable why Mr V wanted to know the basis for Revoluts decision, but 
Revolut did not have to give its exact reasons.
Having looked at all the information available, nothing indicated Revoluts decision 
wasnt an exercise of its commercial discretion. The account was closed in line with 
its terms.
 
Mr V strongly disagrees with this outcome. He says hes being treated as if he was a 
politically exposed person. His sons account was unfairly closed, which is an action a firm 
might take in regard to such a person. Mr V also asserts that if Revoluts decision was based on his previous spent conviction, then 
this would be a breach of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 and data protection law.
The investigator responded in a similar vein to their previous view, repeating that nothing 
indicated Revolut considered him as a politically exposed person, and it was unlikely this 
was the case. They re-affirmed that Revoluts decision was in line with the terms of his 
account.
Mr V has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr V feels very strongly that Revolut had no proper reason to close his 
account. But Revolut can still make decisions on whom it wants as a customer, including 
existing customers. And in general, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to interfere with 
Revoluts decisions in this regard, as long as they represent a legitimate exercise of its 
discretion.
Ive considered very carefully what Mr V has said regarding Revolut treating him as if he is a 
politically exposed person. He appears certain that this is the case. I understand also that he 
thinks the closure of his sons account implies this, and that the closure of that account is 
also unfair. 
But, after considering all the available evidence and information I have, I find Revolut didnt 
review his account under the lens of a politically exposed person or in an otherwise improper 
way based on Mr V's circumstances. I also cannot decide whether Revolut appropriately 
terminated its relationship with his son, as this is not Mr Vs complaint  its his sons.
Mr V says that it would be a breach of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 and data 
protection law if Revoluts decision was based on his previous conviction. But I havent seen 
evidence to show Revoluts decision breached any such law or that it amounts to anything 
other than a legitimate exercise of its discretion.
Neither can I see that Revolut is in breach of the requirements of FATF or principle six of the 
Principles for Businesses. I dont find in Mr V's circumstances that Revolut deciding to 
terminate its relationship with him means he was treated unfairly. Im satisfied Revolut can 
review an account at any time, and this need not only be in relation to when an account is 
opened or to fulfil its know your customer obligations.
I understand of course why Mr V wants to know the exact reasons behind Revoluts 
decision, other than what hes previously been told. But I find there is no legal obligation for 
Revolut to reveal them. So, I find it unreasonable to require it to reveal its reasons now.
 
 
Revolut should still ensure it applies the terms of the account correctly when taking the 
decision to close it. I see it decided to close the account immediately after completing its 
review. And after considering the applicable account terms Im satisfied they were applied appropriately. I also see no funds were in the account prior to the account review and 
closure, so I dont think Mr V was financially disadvantaged as a result of Revoluts decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman