DRN-2291798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont release their charge from their 
property even though they redeemed it in November 2019.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C redeemed their mortgage in November 2019. They said they were told their 
title deeds would be sent in due course. They enquired again in December 2019 and again 
after Christmas when they still hadnt received them.  Mr C said that each time he contacted 
Barclays to query the title deeds, he was on the phone for 40 minutes which took up quite a 
bit of his time. He said he made two further attempts to query this in January 2020. He said 
he was then eventually told in March 2020 that Barclays didnt hold the title deeds and that 
they would need a letter from a solicitor in Scotland, where their property is, to get the 
charge removed. He said that Barclays informed them that the law in Scotland required Mr 
and Mrs C to appoint a solicitor in Scotland in order to send a letter to Barclays who could 
then remove the charge.
Barclays gave Mr and Mrs C £100 to apologise for the incorrect information they gave.
Mr and Mrs C believe that if Barclays arranged their mortgage for them, they should also 
remove the charge on the property. They also think its unfair that they pay the same fees for 
a mortgage as those who live in England or Wales who wont have this additional cost. 
Mr C said that his wife had Covid symptoms and they were worried that if anything had 
happened, they couldnt prove they had a mortgage free property. They also said they felt 
discriminated against because they had a property in Scotland. Mr and Mrs C said if they 
had been given the correct information to start with, they wouldnt have had to chase 
Barclays for the title deeds. They would like Barclays to remove the charge from the property 
and pay them £500 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused them.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with what Barclays had told them, so they brought the 
complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator 
didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with this. In summary they said:
The mortgage offer does not include any costs in relation to removing a charge on a 
property in Scotland and the need to appoint a solicitor  the fee Barclays did charge 
to redeem the mortgage does not specify what Barclays does to justify this fee
Barclays have a duty of care to explain the requirements to Mr and Mrs C and to 
others in similar circumstances 
They disagreed that our investigator initially said it had to be a solicitor that was 
needed to remove the charge from the property when it can actually be done without 
a lawyer
They believe the forms are straight forward and Barclays should be able to complete 
these for Mr and Mrs C
Our investigator did not address how Barclays have learnt from this experience and 
she did not address the risk to others
They have bought and sold various properties so are not inexperienced. And having 
lived in Scotland, its the first time they have heard that the lender needs to remove 
the borrowers charge in Scotland, let alone employ a Scots Lawyer to do this basic 
task
Our investigator has not addressed the difference between Scottish Law and English 
Law on the matter of the removal of a charge on a property
As Mr and Mrs C disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly and the points that Mr and Mrs C 
have made in far less detail than has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think is the heart of the matter here, being 
that Barclays havent discharged the charge on the property and gave incorrect information 
to Mr and Mrs C about the process. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument raised to be able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts.
I appreciate the concerns that Mr and Mrs C have, and they have concerns about this type of 
complaint setting a precedent and they believe it might have far reaching repercussions in 
terms of what financial businesses might be allowed to do.
Our role at the service is not to regulate, fine or punish businesses. We consider what is fair 
and reasonable in consumers individual circumstances and if we find that something has 
gone wrong, we aim to put things right.
When a mortgage or secured loan is advanced by the lender, the lender will register their 
interest in the property by placing a legal charge on the property title. In Scotland, this is 
registered with the Registers of Scotland.
Once the mortgage or loan has been repaid the lender will remove their legal charge 
because they no longer have any interest in the property. When it comes to removing the 
legal charge, or discharging it as its commonly referred to, the Registers of Scotland require 
a discharge deed to be produced. This is a bespoke document produced for the individual 
property. Because it has to comply with various legal requirements, legal knowledge is 
needed to be able to draft the document. A lender would usually recommend that a 
consumer seeks the assistance of a solicitor in order to have the necessary documentation 
produced.
The Registers of Scotland have confirmed that although it is recommended that a solicitor is 
used to discharge the property, it is not a legal requirement. This process can be done by a 
layperson if they have the correct information and necessary knowledge, but they would 
always recommend that a qualified professional such as a solicitor does discharge the 
property.
I know that Mr and Mrs C say they felt discriminated against because their mortgage is in 
Scotland, but I dont agree that they have been discriminated against. This is a process that 
has to happen and its the same for any consumer in the same position.
I do however, think that Barclays should have explained this to Mr and Mrs C much earlier 
on when they redeemed their mortgage in November 2019. They were led to believe that 
their title deeds to the property would be sent to them when this wasnt the case.I also think that Barclays should have informed Mr and Mrs C of the next steps and made it 
clearer when they took the mortgage out what additional cost they may have incurred later 
down the line. As Ive already mentioned, we cannot ask Barclays to change their policies or 
processes as this isnt what our service has been set up to do, but I do think it would be best 
practice for them to inform their customers at the earliest opportunity about what costs may 
be incurred when the mortgage is to be redeemed. However, even if Mr and Mrs C had been 
told about this when they took the mortgage out, I dont think they would have done anything 
different at that time.
Mr and Mrs C dont think that Barclays should have charged them the same amount of 
arrangement fees when they took out the mortgage because their property was in Scotland. 
They feel that had their property been in England or Wales, they wouldnt have had to pay 
the cost of a solicitor to get the charge removed.
Mr and Mrs C have said that our investigator has not commented on the differences between 
Scottish Law and what the requirements are in England and Wales. I dont think this would 
make a difference to this complaint. The requirements are different based on where a 
property is based and because Mr and Mrs C have a property in Scotland  those 
requirements must be met and this is what we have to focus on, not the law in England and 
Wales.
Barclays are entitled to set their own fees for the products they offer their customers. While I 
understand the point that Mr and Mrs C are making, Barclays havent treated them unfairly. 
Any other customers in the same position are treated in exactly the same way and the 
mortgage arrangement   fee that  they were charged was for taking out the mortgage itself. 
And as Ive already explained, its not because Barclays are choosing not to release the 
charge on the property  its because it has to be done this way because the property is in 
Scotland and the requirements are different. The cost of appointing a solicitor to write a letter 
to discharge the cost unfortunately falls with the borrower and it wouldnt be fair to ask 
Barclays to cover this cost.
In terms of the mortgage fees themselves, I think these were made clear to Mr and Mrs C. I 
have looked at the mortgage offer and under section 8 what fees you must pay, Barclays 
have explained the charges that were payable at the time the mortgage was taken out. The 
mortgage exit fee is a flat fee for general administration when the mortgage ends. This fee 
included Barclays part of the discharge process, but it didnt cover the cost of producing the 
necessary documentation. 
Mr and Mrs C would like Barclays to write the letter on their behalf, but this isnt something 
that I will ask Barclays to do. The process itself is that ideally a solicitor should do this 
because of what is involved. Once this letter has been drawn up, it can get sent to Barclays.  
There are guidelines which show how this can be achieved without a solicitor, but only in 
some circumstances. Details can be found on the Registers of Scotland website.
I appreciate that this process has been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs C and it took them 
nearly four months to find out what the correct process was. Barclays have accepted that 
they made an error and they have offered Mr and Mrs C £300 for the trouble and upset that 
has been caused. They said that £100 was for the trouble and upset and £200 was to be put 
towards the solicitor cost. We wouldnt expect Barclays to contribute to the cost of the 
solicitor to discharge the cost so overall, I think that £300 is a fair offer for the error that 
Barclays made so I wont be asking them to pay anything further.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with this outcome, but Im satisfied that 
Barclays have been reasonable and fair in these circumstances and that their offer of 
compensation is sufficient for the delays caused.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman