DRN-3224592
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J have complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
handled a claim under their home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J had an escape of water in their home that damaged their kitchen. RSA 
accepted the insurance claim and assessed the damage. Due to the level of works involved, 
Mr J and Mrs J had to move out of their home to alternative accommodation. They took 
some of their possessions with them, RSA moved other items to storage and some items 
were left in the house.
The claim took about three years to draw to a conclusion. During that time, Mr J and Mrs J 
contacted RSA on a number of occasions because the claim was taking so long to resolve, 
the builders werent treating their home with appropriate respect and the builders also 
caused damage to a range of items in the house.
When Mr J and Mrs J complained to RSA, it accepted that there were a range of issues with 
the claim. It said Mr J and Mrs J could arrange for their own contractors to complete the 
work, offered a total of £3,200 compensation and also refunded some costs Mr J and Mrs J 
had paid, such as for a skip they had hired to dispose of items damaged by rats.
Mr J and Mrs J then contacted this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said 
there had been around 17 months of delays during the claim, communication issues and a 
range of issues with damage to the property caused by the builders carrying out the repairs. 
She said that what RSA had said it would do to deal with the issues was reasonable, but 
given the ongoing issues with the claim, she said RSA should pay an additional £750 
compensation.
As Mr J and Mrs J did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 17 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
This has been a very lengthy claim which Im aware Mr J and Mrs J have found to be a 
distressing experience. This isnt just because of the distress that might be the result of any 
claim of this nature, but also because of the way RSAs contractors treated their home and 
the damage they caused, as well as the finish of some of the repairs. Since this complaint 
has been with this service, RSA and Mr J and Mrs J have been in discussion at times about 
how some of these issues might be resolved. But RSA seems to have stopped engaging in 
those discussions for reasons that arent entirely clear. So, I have now considered how to 
fairly resolve this complaint in the circumstances.
It isnt in dispute that RSAs contractors caused damage to Mr J and Mrs Js home and that 
there were other issues, such as rats. RSA has already paid to deal with some issues, but 
there are still several outstanding, including some where it isnt clear to what extent RSA 
might be responsible for those issues. I think it has been difficult for RSA to assess some of 
the damage because Mr J and Mrs J are no longer happy for RSA to visit their home given 
the range of issues theyve experienced. I can understand that, but I still think there is a 
need for the damage to be assessed to bring this claim to a close.
As a result, I currently intend to say that an independent surveyor must be appointed to 
review the claim. This is to ensure that the outstanding issues are appropriately assessed to 
identify which issues are down to the actions of RSA and to restore Mr J and Mrs J to the 
position they were in before the claim. So, I currently intend to require RSA to provide Mr J 
and Mrs J with the details of three independent surveyors so that Mr J and Mrs J can choose 
one of them. RSA will then be required to pay for the surveyor, but they will be jointly 
appointed. Both parties should provide evidence to the surveyor for consideration. The 
surveyor can then inspect all of the outstanding damage and issues and report on what RSA 
needs to deal with in order to bring this claim to a close. Both parties will be bound by the 
independent surveyors findings.
Im aware that when RSA replied to Mr J and Mrs Js complaint that it acknowledged that it 
had already asked Mr J and Mrs J to arrange their own contractors to complete some 
outstanding work. In the circumstances, I think that is likely to be the most appropriate way 
for any work then to be carried out. This is likely to require Mr J and Mrs J either to allow the 
damage to be assessed by RSA for costing purposes or for Mr J and Mrs J to provide 
quotes. Im aware that Mr J and Mrs J have explained how wearing this process has been 
for them and their reasons for this. But I do think the works need to be properly costed to 
ensure that a fair settlement is made for them. I also intend to say that RSA should pay 
interest on any cash settlement amount because Mr J and Mrs J have lost use of that 
money.
But, to be clear, Im not requiring that Mr J and Mrs J let RSA into their home. It isnt my role 
to do that. Im highlighting that there does need to be a way for the costs to be agreed and I 
cant see a way of this happening without the co-operation of Mr J and Mrs J to some 
degree. I say this mindful of the natural sympathy I have for the difficult experience that Mr J 
and Mrs J have had over a lengthy period of time.
I have also thought about compensation. Im aware that RSA doesnt dispute that there were 
about 17 months of avoidable delays during the claim and that the works led to a range of 
issues, including rats. As a result, it paid a total of £3,200 in compensation. Our investigator 
recommended that RSA paid an additional £750 compensation because of the issues that 
remained outstanding, which I understand RSA might have already paid. Ive thought about 
this carefully, but I dont currently intend to require RSA to pay any more compensation in 
addition to this. This is because I can see that there has been significant disruption to Mr J 
and Mrs Js lives.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 15 December 2021.
Mr J and Mrs J replied and said they were pleased I agreed with the earlier findings but were 
disappointed there was no further compensation offered and that there was no mention of 
false advertising by RSA about the policy. They said a claim that should have taken six 
months had taken three years eight months, for no other reason than the failure of RSAs 
employees. They explained how stressful and exhausting it was to keep going through the 
quotation cycle.  They said the loss adjuster had responded to them again saying that the 
amount they had quoted for some of the works was excessive and had said they had 
reached the policy limit for the garden when the damage was the fault of RSA.
Mr J and Mrs J then sent a further response. This included commenting again on the 
compensation and RSAs false advertising. They said the compensation was the equivalent of what they had continued to pay in premiums. They said RSA had accepted it was 
responsible for 17 months of delays and they continued to live with the consequences of 
RSAs errors. They had an expectation that they would be awarded at least £1,000 for each 
month of delay before they moved home and £500 for each month since moving home for 
the delay in paying for the outstanding remedial work. They thought £25,000 to £26,000 
would be a fairer amount of compensation. Mr J and Mrs J also said they were considering 
other potential options to achieve a resolution to the issues with the claim and the impact on 
them.
RSA queried whether Mr J and Mrs J had replied and asked for a brief extension to the 
deadline for responses to my provisional decision as negotiations were ongoing. That 
deadline has now passed.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive considered the comments made by both parties and remain of the 
view that the way I have said this complaint should be resolved is the most appropriate in the 
circumstances.
Im aware that Mr J and Mrs J would like significantly more compensation and their reasons 
for this. In my view, the amount awarded is a substantial amount of compensation and, 
having thought about it again, Im not persuaded to increase it.
Mr J and Mrs J have also said they are considering other options to resolve the issues. They 
might therefore wish to seek legal advice before deciding whether to accept my decision. 
  
Putting things right
RSA must offer the details of three independent surveyors to Mr J and Mrs J so they can 
choose one and a full assessment of the outstanding issues, with both parties being bound 
by their findings. RSA must also provide a cash settlement for any outstanding damage and 
issues and pay interest on that amount. RSA must also pay an additional £750 
compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint is upheld. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Offer the details of three independent surveyors to Mr J and Mrs J so they can choose 
one and a full assessment of the outstanding issues in their home and garden can take 
place. Both parties will be bound by the independent surveyors findings. Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc must pay the cost of the surveyor.
Provide a cash settlement for any outstanding damage and issues for which it is 
responsible based on its own costings or quotes provided by Mr J and Mrs J.
Pay 8% simple interest on any cash settlement from the date on which the claim was 
made to the date of payment.
Pay a further £750 compensation, in addition to the £3,200 it previously offered, if this 
has not already been paid.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman