DRN-3361320
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs H complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc were unfair in rejecting their household 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs H had home insurance with AXA, and when they noticed their septic tank 
wasnt draining as quickly as it had previously, they submitted a claim. Although not before 
first contacting a drainage company.
The drainage company theyd contacted said excavation work would be required to properly 
inspect what was causing the problem. They quoted £500 for that work.
Instead of going ahead with that Mr C and Mrs H decided to see if their insurance would 
cover the inspection and any possible repairs.
AXA appointed another drainage company who also said excavation work would be required 
to discover the cause  and to assess whether any damage was covered by the insurance.
A visit was arranged and while the drainage company say they carried out a small 
excavation, Mr C and Mrs H say they didnt. The drainage company reported to AXA that 
they couldnt find the cause. They speculated on some possibilities but couldnt be sure.
Mr C and Mrs H were unhappy with that and said some of the proposed causes could be 
ruled out, but AXA and the drainage company maintained the damage wasnt covered  
although AXA paid them £50 compensation for some service-related issues. Mr C and Mrs H 
remained unhappy, so they brought their case to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They said they were satisfied that an inspection 
had been carried out by the drainage company, since they provided CCTV footage of the 
inside of some pipework. In view of that, the investigator said while no likely or definite cause 
had been identified, they couldnt ask AXA to deal with the claim  noting that theres an 
element of responsibility on the insured to demonstrate they have a loss thats covered.
Mr C and Mrs H disagreed. They maintained that no excavation took place and they felt it 
was most likely the damage occurred when a garage had been built in the vicinity. They said 
the slow draining started following that.
Agreement couldnt be reached so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C and Mrs H, but I dont think AXA has treated them unfairly.
Its correct that theres a general premise that consumers are required to prove they have a 
valid claim for the insurer to then consider it. But sometimes consumers dont know quite 
where to start with doing that, so insurers will often arrange for inspections to be carried out.
AXA has done that in this case and has relied upon the explanation from the drainage 
company that no insured cause has been found. I appreciate that isnt great for Mr C and 
Mrs H, but I think a reasonable course of action has been followed here. I accept there 
remains uncertainty as to what the true cause is, but once an insurer has been reasonable in 
relying on an expert report it tends to be for the consumer to provide counter evidence.
Mr C and Mrs H say they have evidence to counter some of the points made by the drainage 
company, such as the suggestion the problem relates to a high-water table. But I havent 
seen anything to support that, and opportunities to provide it have been allowed.
And even if a potential cause can be ruled out, it doesnt automatically follow that a claim 
should be covered. Ultimately, the likely cause has not been found and unless that happens 
it is difficult to say that AXA should do any more than theyve already done.
Of course, it is open for Mr C and Mrs H to arrange their own inspections, to find the cause 
of the problem. And were they to do so  and provide reports to AXA  Id expect the claim 
to be reconsidered. I also might say that AXA should cover the cost of any report that leads 
to the claim being covered, but I cant be definite about that as it isnt a consideration for this 
case.
So, if Mr C and Mrs H do obtain further evidence, they should be aware it could be at their 
own cost, and they may not get it back  regardless of what it finds.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman