DRN-1862382
The complaint
Miss C complains that a third party appeared on her Equifax credit report.
What happened
Miss C complains that Equifax recorded incorrect data relating to a third party on her credit 
report. She says the negative information impacted on her ability to obtain finance to lease 
equipment for her business, and that as a result she had to rent the equipment at a higher 
rate. 
Equifax upheld Miss Cs complaint. It acknowledged that it had incorrectly attached another 
persons information to Miss Cs credit report and said it would remove the information. It 
offered to pay Miss C £150 in compensation. 
Miss C remined unhappy and complained to this service. She feels that she should receive 
more compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Equifax had acted promptly to resolve 
the issue and that the compensation offered was fair. The investigator said that although 
Miss Cs application for finance had been declined by the leasing company because of 
negative information on her credit file, it wasnt possible to conclude that this was due to 
Equifaxs error because Miss C had some negative data in relation to her own accounts. 
Miss C didnt agree. She said the error had impacted on her business and that her mother 
(the third party) had received more compensation than her for the same complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Credit reference agencies such as Equifax store and retrieve data primarily by name, date of 
birth and address. Mistakes with credit profiles are relatively rare and when errors occur, its 
usually because the credit reference agencies matching system has been unable to 
separate the two profiles given the built-in allowances for differences with names and dates 
of birth.
Theres no dispute that theres been an error here. Ive looked at the impact of the error to 
decide whether Equifax has done enough to resolve the complaint.
I can see that Miss C contacted Equifax about the incorrect information on her credit file in 
early November 2019. I can also see that Equifax added a notice of disassociation to Miss 
Cs credit file two days later. The information relating to the third party was fully removed 
around one month later. Looking at the timescales, Im satisfied that Equifax acted quickly 
and appropriately to correct Miss Cs credit file.
Ive taken into account what Miss C has said about the effect on her business. I understand 
that she wouldve been disappointed when her application for finance was declined by the 
leasing company due to negative information on her credit file.
Ive looked at Miss Cs credit file and I can see that as well as the information which related 
to the third party, there is negative information about accounts which belonged to her. So, I 
cant be certain that her application for finance was declined because of the error by Equifax.
I appreciate that Miss C feels very strongly about this and I dont doubt that shes suffered a 
financial loss because of having to pay higher rental costs for her business equipment. But 
as Ive said, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant be sure that this was due to Equifaxs 
error.
Miss C has expressed disappointment that her mother received more compensation than 
she did for a similar complaint. Im only able to look at the circumstances of this complaint 
and assess the impact of the error on Miss C. Im unbale to take into account the outcome of 
other cases, even if they appear to be based on similar facts.
Taking everything into consideration, I think Equifax has done enough to resolve Miss Cs 
complaint. Miss C hasnt persuaded me that she was declined for finance as a result of the 
error by Equifax. In the circumstances, I think the offer by Equifax is fair and reasonable for 
the trouble and upset caused to Miss C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman