DRN-1700584
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in 1995 in connection with a mortgage.
What happened
Market Harborough Building Society (MHBS) says that a broker, John Herlihy at Dakings 
Financial Services (Dakings), was responsible for the sale of the mortgage and associated 
PPI. So MHBS says that it is not responsible for the sale of the PPI. 
An adjudicator has looked at the case and agreed that MHBS wasnt responsible for the sale 
of the PPI. Mr and Mrs W disagree with this so the case has come to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to decide is whether MHBS is responsible for the sale of the policy. If I 
decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened as it shouldve done. If I dont think 
MHBS was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mr and Mrs W, then Im not going to be 
able to look at a complaint about the PPI sale against it.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided and at what MHBS and Mr and Mrs W have told us 
about the sale. Mr and Mrs W have said that the sale took place at Dakings, on behalf of 
MHBS. They have said that they spoke to the advisor John Herlihy and were told that they 
needed the insurance. MHBS have said that the PPI was a compulsory requirement of the 
product which was chosen and that the mortgage was arranged through an independent 
financial advisor, John Herlihy of Dakings Financial Services. 
So both parties appear to agree that Dakings sold the mortgage and PPI. I have also seen a 
number of other documents which indicate that Dakings sold the policy.
I have seen the mortgage application form which has a section at the bottom to be 
completed by the introducer. This has been filled in with Dakings details and signed by John 
Herlihy on 10 July 1995. 
There is then a letter from MHBS to Dakings on 13 July 1995 in relation to the application. 
Within this letter it states that accident, sickness and unemployment insurance (a type of 
PPI) was a condition of the type of mortgage. I have seen a letter from Dakings to MHBS 
dated 15 July 1995 responding to this and enclosing a completed PPI application form and 
saying Mr and Mrs W hadnt yet decided whether to go for an interest only or repayment 
mortgage. There is an application for PPI signed by Mr W on the same date.
There is a further letter from Dakings to MHBS dated 30 November 1995 enclosing Mr Ws 
application for PPI and apologising for the delay in sending as our client was not too sure 
whether to go for the cover or not. I have also seen a further PPI application form which 
appears to have been signed by Mr W on 17 November 1995.
In light of the above, I am satisfied that the broker was responsible for the sale of the PPI. Mr 
and Mrs W have suggested that Dakings was acting as an agent at the time of the sale. 
However, there is no evidence to support that they were either an agent or appointed 
representative of MHBS at any point.
I am satisfied on balance that at the time of sale, Dakings was not acting as an agent of 
MHBS for the purposes of the sale of the PPI. As MHBS didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt 
responsible for the broker who did sell it), I dont find that MHBS was responsible for the 
sale. It follows that it wasnt responsible for carrying out the sale properly. So, I therefore 
cant look into a complaint about the sale of the policy against MHBS.
It appears that Dakings was responsible for the sale of the PPI, so Mr and Mrs W would 
have to complain to them about the mis-sale. I can see that they have already made a 
complaint to Sesame, for whom Dakings were acting as an appointed representative. 
However, I can only consider a complaint if it falls within certain criteria laid down in our 
case-handling rules, which are found in the DISP section of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook (available online). 
The event that Mr and Mrs W have complained about is insurance intermediation, that is, the 
marketing, advising and selling of insurance, etc. This did not become a regulated activity 
until 14 January 2005. 
This sale took place in 1995 and neither Dakings or Sesame were subject to our compulsory 
jurisdiction at this time. The rules do allow me to consider some complaints about the sale of 
insurance before January 2005 where the business was subject to a former scheme at the 
relevant time. But Dakings and Sesame were not a member of any of these schemes at the 
time the policy was sold (and did not need to be because they were mostly voluntary). So it 
follows that I wouldnt be able to consider this complaint against them either if Mr and Mrs W 
did complain about them.
I can only consider complaints which fall within my jurisdiction under the case-handling rules
which I must apply. Therefore, Mr and Mrs W can complain to Dakings (via Sesame), but if 
they dont like the answer, this service wont have the power to look at the complaint against 
it.
I know Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we 
cant help them on this occasion.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
In light of this MHBS (in its role as lender as opposed to because it sold the policy) has paid 
back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
 MHBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because MHBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair.  To put that right, MHBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I cant consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint 
about the mis-sale of their PPI policy against MHBS because it wasnt MHBS who sold it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman