DRN-3800497
The complaint
The executors of Mrs Ys estate believe that Key Retirement Solutions Limited (trading as 
Key Equity Release) mis-sold her a lifetime mortgage. They dont believe Mrs Y understood 
the terms of the mortgage and that her son misappropriated the funds. 
The executors are concerned that Key failed to exercise due diligence with respect to 
Mrs Ys sons third-party presence during the application process. Or, that sufficient checks 
were carried out to ensure Mrs Y needed the funds she was applying for. They say 
information provided in the recommendation letter was misleading and incorrect and all the 
beneficiaries of the estate were not consulted as suggested.
The executors say the matter has been referred to the local police and is under investigation. 
To put things right, they would like Key to reimburse all the funds borrowed including any 
fees paid, to the estate. 
What happened
In late 2019 Mrs Y arranged to meet with an adviser from Key to discuss releasing equity 
from her home. Information and advice about the mortgage were given by Key, as the broker 
who sold the mortgage. Mrs Y was advised to take a lifetime mortgage to the value of 
£15,000, with an Equity Release mortgage provider.
A fact find exercise took place during an initial meeting with Key and Mrs Y on 13 November 
2019. Key subsequently met with Mrs Y a couple of days later to talk through its 
recommendation with her.
The recommendation letter detailed that Mrs Y was widowed, living alone at her property 
and receiving a monthly income of £1,482. She thought her home was worth around 
£160,000 and she wanted to release some funds for home improvements, estate planning 
costs and for an emergency fund.
Mrs Y confirmed that she wanted to remain living in her property and wasnt considering 
downsizing as an option to raise the funds she required.  She didnt want to remain 
financially dependent on her family and had no other savings, investments or any other 
assets she could use instead. 
Mrs Y said she did not want a conventional loan or mortgage because she did not want to 
make any regular monthly payments during her lifetime. 
It was noted that a third party (Mr Y) was present during the initial meeting. And, that Mrs Y 
had discussed her plans to release equity from the house with her four children  who were 
in favour of her plan. The executors say Mrs Y had five children, not four. And Mr Ys relation 
to Mrs Y was not made clear in Keys documents. 
Before the mortgage could complete, Mrs Y had to meet with a solicitor to ensure she 
understood the mortgage she was planning to take out. The solicitor issued its certificate on 
8 January 2020 confirming that the terms of the mortgage had been explained, as had the 
implications of taking it. This included, but wasnt restricted to, an explanation of the effect 
the mortgage would have on her estate after death. The solicitor also certified that it was 
reasonably satisfied that Mrs Y was of sufficient mental capacity and not under duress or 
undue influence to enter into the mortgage. 
It was following a deterioration in Mrs Ys health, the executors say they found details about 
the lifetime mortgage. They complained to Key. A short time later Mrs Y sadly passed away. 
Key responded to the complaint which it didnt uphold. It detailed what information it had 
about Mrs Ys circumstances and needs in 2019. Key explained its process when giving 
advice, including suggesting that family is involved. It went through its recommendation, its 
explanation of the product that had been given to Mrs Y and reasons for the 
recommendation. Key was satisfied that the recommendation was appropriate for Mrs Y at 
the time. It also said that there was no evidence to suggest that the adviser should have had 
cause to question Mrs Ys capacity in 2019. It confirmed that had there been any concerns 
about her capacity or a sense that she was being coerced into releasing money for reasons 
other than shed stated, this would have been flagged and she wouldnt have been allowed 
to proceed with the mortgage.
An investigator considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld, she said she 
hadnt seen enough to suggest Key mis-sold the mortgage or acted unreasonably during the 
sales process. 
The executors disagreed. They didnt think our investigator had fully explored the allegation 
of coercion by Mrs Ys son. They referred back to the evidence that they feel supports the 
complaint and asked for matters to be decided by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the executors have strong views about this matter. I want to assure them Ive 
read and carefully considered everything theyve provided. However, Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have 
raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by 
the parties, and address the crux of the complaint, to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Taking into account the relevant 
regulation that applies here. This simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Mrs Ys mortgage was a regulated product. So Key was required to comply with the 
regulators rules and guidance when it advised Mrs Y. Ive considered whether thats what 
happened here. 
The Equity Release Council sets the standards and safeguards that it considers should be 
practised by lenders and advisors alike for the protection of equity release consumers. Key 
is a member of the Council and has agreed to be bound by them. While the Councils rules 
and guidance are not regulatory requirements, I think they represent good industry practice. 
So, Ive taken them into account alongside the rules of mortgage regulation in deciding what 
I think is fair and reasonable in this case.
I note that the executors have implied that Mrs Y wasnt competent to enter into the
mortgage contract. They believe Key should have been aware of this and it shouldnt have 
sold her the mortgage. But they have since confirmed that the signs of dementia or Alzheimers werent evident until the early part of 2021 following an accident. As this was 
after the mortgage was taken, I am not persuaded Key should have had any reason to think 
or suspect there might be competency issues at the time of the sale of the mortgage.
It is also a requirement for all equity release borrowing that lenders expect borrowers to get
independent legal advice before taking out the loan. The solicitor does not advise on the
suitability or amount of the mortgage  they do not offer financial advice. But they do ensure
that the borrower understands the nature of what they are agreeing to and the terms they will
be bound by. I can see that the lender required that to happen in this case and that a
solicitor met Mrs Y, gave her that advice and signed the appropriate certificate  meaning
the solicitor had no concerns that Mrs Y didnt want or understand the mortgage. This
reinforces my conclusion that there was nothing around the time of the sale that ought
reasonably to have led Key to conclude that Mrs Y didnt understand the mortgage, didnt 
agree to it or want it, or was being manipulated by her son.
The executors have questioned Keys due diligence around establishing the relationship 
between Mrs Y and the third-party present during the meetings. They say none of her 
children listed in the application were consulted about the mortgage as implied and only her 
eldest son, who was present, had knowledge of the mortgage and it was in fact he, who 
coerced her into taking the mortgage and transferring all the funds to him.
I acknowledge that the executors say theyve reported the matter of fraud to the police. As 
far as Im aware the police are still investigating things. Even if what follows, is a prosecution 
for fraud, this doesnt immediately suggest Key did anything wrong. For the purpose of this 
complaint and when considering Keys responsibilities during the sales process, I must 
consider whether the advisor ought reasonably to have known there was an issue that 
meant the sale should have not gone ahead.
The Equity Release Council says that advisors should discuss with borrowers whether they 
want to consult with their family before taking out a lifetime mortgage. So, I wouldnt expect 
Mrs Ys son being present during the meeting to, on its own, trigger any concern to the 
advisor. Had he not been there, its likely Mrs Y would have been asked whether she 
intended to discuss her plans with her family as part of the advice process. 
I would however expect the advisor to be alert to anything concerning about Mrs Ys and/or 
the third partys demeanour. Unless there were any obvious signs of unusual behaviour from 
either of them, then its difficult for me to say that the advisor ought to have known 
something could possibly be wrong. And I have no evidence to suggest that there was 
anything about Mrs Y or the third party that ought to have given the advisor cause for 
concern.
And as Ive already mentioned, Mrs Y was required to receive independent legal advice, at 
which time, the solicitor also confirmed there were no signs of vulnerability. So, I dont 
conclude that Mr Ys presence, would cause Key any concern.
Ive considered the executors concerns about only four of the five children being named 
under the children/family section and there being no mention of Mr Ys relation to Mrs Y. I 
accept that may be the case, but it has no real bearing on the outcome of the complaint. It 
was clear the third party was somewhat related to Mrs Y as they share the same surname. 
Regardless of whether Mr Y was listed in the relevant section as being Mrs Ys son, his 
presence (not unusual in the circumstances) was enough to suggest she had at least 
consulted one member of the family of her plans. Mrs Y also further declared that she had 
made her children aware of her plans. That was enough to satisfy Key and it was not 
expected to verify this by checking this further with the beneficiaries listed.  Although its recommended to involve family members in the decision-making process, the 
decision to proceed with the application ultimately lies with the homeowner. The executors 
say Key should have carried our further checks into the suitability of the mortgage, including 
the purpose of funds. Id only expect Key to be concerned about the appropriation of the 
funds if something stood out as significantly concerning. 
Equity Release amongst the older population is not uncommon. Mrs Y said she wanted to 
borrow a modest amount (in proportion to the value of her property) for plausible purposes 
and she confirmed she had no other alternative means or ability to repay a conventional 
loan. Theres nothing that suggests to me that Key ought to have been concerned here.
When considering everything, I dont think Key acted unreasonably when recommending the 
lifetime mortgage to Mrs Y.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the executors, on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs Y, to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman