DRN-1967979
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (as the insurer) should accept responsibility 
for the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs W says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs W took out at the same time as she applied for a 
store card in July 2003 whilst shopping in the store. The policy covered her in case she was 
off work sick or she lost her job unexpectedly and became unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs W mainly says that the PPI was added to her store card without her knowledge or 
informed consent. 
Mrs W told us that she had no need for the policy and she wouldve declined it if the policy 
had been discussed with her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and independently come to the same view as our 
adjudicator. Ill explain why.
Ive no doubt that Mrs W feels certain about everything shes told us. But it isnt reasonable 
to expect Mrs W to remember exactly what was discussed when she took out PPI so long 
ago. This means that what she says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this 
complaint just based on the way Mrs W says she was sold PPI. 
I must be impartial and I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think 
is most likely. Theres more information about the way we make our decisions on our 
website if Mrs W would like to read more about this.
I think AXA made Mrs W aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. Heres why I say this.
AXA has given us a copy of the store card application from the time of sale. There were 
some optional extras offered. Mrs W has signed in the PPI part of the form, next to where it 
says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account CoverPlease debit my Account 
with the relevant monthly premium until further notice. 
I've taken into account that Mrs W told us that she just signed the form where the store 
assistant had indicated. And I dont know what (if anything) mightve been said about the PPI. 
But I think it wouldve been clear from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs W to say if she 
wanted to have PPI added on. 
Mrs W signed the completed application next to where it says Sign it only if you want to be 
legally bound by its terms. I think its reasonable to expect Mrs W wouldve first read through 
anything she was asked to sign. So it seems to me that by signing the form she was indicating 
that she agreed with the information on the form at the time  even if, understandably, she has 
forgotten this now. 
On balance, I havent seen enough information overall to be able to say that AXA didnt make 
Mrs W aware that the policy was optional or that it was added to her account without her 
consent. I think the policy was added to Mrs Ws account when she chose to have it alongside 
her store card.
No PPI recommendation was made by AXA. This means that AXA didnt have to check if the 
policy was suitable for Mrs W. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs W enough clear 
information to decide if the policy was right for her, taking into account her personal 
circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs W wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. 
Mrs W was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half pay through her 
employer. This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs W was off work sick or 
disabled. So it couldve paid out for longer than Mrs W was entitled to sick pay through work 
 and cleared her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. 
This benefit was also available to Mrs W in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and 
was out of work. 
So its fair to say that PPI offered Mrs W better protection than she couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs W with a 
useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
Having the policy gave Mrs W more dependable cover than relying on someone else to help 
out in the event of money problems as circumstances can always change. 
Mrs W told us she had no significant other means (like substantial savings or other 
insurance) that she couldve relied on to cover her monthly card repayments if she wasnt 
working. 
For all these reasons, I think the policy offered Mrs W useful benefits in her particular 
situation. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like any of the main policy 
limitations or exclusions wouldve affected Mrs W. So I dont think its likely that having more 
information about these policy terms wouldve led her to change her mind about taking out 
the PPI.I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs W clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But the information Ive seen suggests that she chose to take out the policy when 
she didnt have to. 
And it looks like she was happy to pay for it at the time as she agreed to pay the monthly 
premium when she filled in the application form. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for her. 
Looked at overall, given the useful benefits PPI offered Mrs W, I think it unlikely she 
wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. 
So I dont find that Mrs W has lost out as a result of anything that AXA did wrong  and 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mrs W. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman