DRN-3259626
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in March 2018.
Mr A says that the account was mis-sold because Halifax sold the packaged bank account to 
him with a generous overdraft and switching bonus. Over the course of time Mr A says 
Halifax drastically reduced the overdraft. Mr A says he was told he had to get the account in 
order to take out a loan/overdraft.
Mr A also says that Halifax reduced his overdraft and started persecuting him over a 
personal loan he took out by reversing his direct debit to another creditor.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the URCA was mis-sold. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
In addition to the mis-sale complaint, Mr A has also raised dissatisfaction that Halifax later 
reduced his overdraft limit and, as he says, started persecuting him for a personal loan he 
took out (in 2019) by reversing a Direct Debit. As explained by the adjudicator, if Mr A wants 
our service to consider those points, they will need to be looked into under a separate 
complaint. Therefore, this decision will only address whether the URCA was mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I 
dont think that the URCA was mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr A says that he was led to believe he had to take out a fee-paying URCA to take out a 
loan or overdraft. However, Mr A has not said what exactly it was that made him think this. 
Nevertheless, as Mr A applied for the account online, I have looked at an archived copy of 
Halifaxs website from March 2018 to gain an understanding of what Mr A was likely to have 
seen when he switched his account to the URCA. And Ive not seen anything that suggested 
that loans or overdrafts were only available on the fee-paying URCA. 
On the contrary, the website makes it clear that a customer who wants to switch their bank 
account to Halifax and receive a £125 reward (which Mr A received), can choose from three 
different accounts. These accounts were a fee-free Reward account, a fee-free Current 
Account and a fee-paying URCA  the latter of which is what Mr A chose.  
Furthermore, the part of the website you are taken to, to apply to switch accounts, has a 
specific section that addresses overdrafts. This says:
If youre opening an account and you switch your main current account to Halifax, well give 
you an overdraft with no daily overdraft fees, subject to status, for the first six months. After 
this time, daily overdraft fees will apply based on the account youve chosen.
So based on what I have seen from Halifaxs website from the time that Mr A applied for his 
URCA, I think that it was made quite clear that Mr A did not have to have a fee-paying URCA 
to have an overdraft, and that overdrafts were in fact available (subject to status) on all three 
accounts included in the switching bonus offer. And given that there was no mention of loans 
being conditional on Mr A having a certain type of account either, I am unable to conclude 
that Halifax did mislead Mr A into thinking he had to have a fee-paying URCA to have an 
overdraft or loan.
Mr A says that the account was recommended to him. However, as Mr A applied for the 
account online, via the switching service, Im satisfied that the account was sold on a non-
advised basis without the direct input from a member of staff of Halifax. This means that 
Halifax was not required to assess whether the URCA was suitable for Mr As 
circumstances. Instead, it was up to Mr A to decide this for himself.
To help Mr A decide whether the account was worth taking out, Halifax was required to 
provide Mr A with the important information about the account. 
Unfortunately, Halifax has not been able to provide our service with copies of what Mr A saw 
during the actual application process when he took out the URCA online. So its difficult for 
me to say with any certainty that he was presented with all of the important information about 
the account. But having said that, I can see that Halifaxs website did provide a summary of 
the account benefits  which included a summary of what was covered and what the key 
exclusions were for each benefit. So I think Mr A was given key information about the 
account and its benefits before starting the application process. And Mr A was clearly given 
some information about the account benefits as he went on to claim on the breakdown cover 
twice, not too long after the upgrade.
I note that Mr A says that Halifax failed to make important information clear to him. For 
example, he says it wasnt made clear that he needed to register phones for them to be 
covered by the URCA mobile phone insurance. But as there was no need to register phones 
for them to be covered by the URCA mobile phone insurance, I dont think that Halifax did 
anything wrong in relation to this. 
Mr A also says that he was not told that hed need to declare pre-existing medical conditions 
to the travel insurer, for them to be covered by the URCA travel insurance. However, I can 
see that this information i.e. the need to contact the insurer, was contained on Halifaxs 
website in the summary that explained what benefits were included with the URCA. And 
even if this information had not been made clear to Mr A during the sale, he has not said 
anything that makes me think he has lost out from being unaware of this information. For 
example, hes not said he had any travel insurance claims declined as a result. And it 
doesnt seem that Mr A wouldve been put off from agreeing to the account had this 
information been made clearer during the sale. I say this because Halifax reminded Mr A of 
the eligibility criteria (including the need to declare medical conditions to the travel insurer) 
on the 13 March 2019 i.e. a year after he agreed to the account. And despite being sent this 
information, he still chose to keep the account beyond this point. 
Finally, Mr A says that he has many of the benefits elsewhere, so he says he had no need 
for the URCA. However, as I said above, I think it was made quite clear on the switching 
section of Halifaxs website that the URCA was optional; that fee-free alternatives existed; 
and that there was no obligation to specifically have an URCA, to be able to obtain a loan or 
overdraft. 
I can also see that Halifaxs website explained what benefits were included with the URCA 
too. Also, as the URCA was sold as a package, Mr A was unable to pick and choose what it 
came with. Therefore, taking all of this into account, I cant reasonably hold Halifax 
responsible because Mr A chose to take out a fee-paying packaged account that included 
benefits he didnt ultimately need. My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that the URCA was mis-sold. I therefore 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman