DRN-1437659
 
Complaint
Mr B complains that his new insurance provider has increased his premium because of a 
non-fault claim recorded against him by his previous insurer  Aviva Insurance Limited.
Background
Mr B said that in August 2018, whilst he was stationary, another car drove into the rear of his 
car. The claim to repair the damage caused by this was initially settled by his insurer  Aviva 
 which then recovered its cost from the third-party insurer. The claim was recorded as a 
non-fault claim.
Following this, Mr B took out a new insurance policy with a different insurer. Mr B believes 
the premium for the new policy has increased by £20 per year due to this claim. He is 
unhappy he will have to declare this claim and pay this increased premium for the next five 
years. 
Mr B asked Aviva to claim this amount from the third-party insurer, as he was unable to 
himself. But Aviva has said that it isnt able to do so. Aviva said it correctly recorded the 
incident as a non-fault claim and allowed Mr B to keep his no claims discount (NCD). Aviva 
said there could be numerous reasons that the new insurer charged a higher premium. It 
explained that any premium increase by a new insurer isnt covered by his policy. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr B's complaint. She didn't think that Aviva was 
responsible for Mr B's new insurer setting the premiums it had. She explained that premiums 
can vary depending on a range of risk factors which each insurer will consider before setting 
their own premiums. Because of this she didn't think it would be fair to recommend Aviva 
should take any further action such as recovering any losses from the third party insurer.
Mr B didn't accept our investigator's opinion. So because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration, as he believes he has suffered a financial loss as a result 
of this claim. But I also need to consider whether Aviva has actually made an error.
It is not in dispute that there has been a collision between Mr B and a third party. Repairs 
were paid for by the third-party insurer and Aviva accurately recorded this as a non-fault 
claim, allowing Mr B to keep his NCD. So, I think Aviva handled and settled Mr Bs claim 
fairly and reasonably.
Mr B subsequently decided to take out an insurance policy with a new insurer. He says this 
policy is £20 more expensive due to the non-fault claim with Aviva. He also says hell need to declare this claim for five years which means hell suffer further losses. Mr B feels he 
should be put back in the position he was in before the accident, so he wants Aviva to 
recover £100 from the third-party insurer. 
I think its important to highlight that its for each individual insurer to set the premiums they 
charge for their policies. There are a range of factors that insurers may take into 
consideration when setting the price of an insurance premium. These can include details 
about the vehicle, the driver, the local area and details of either fault or non-fault claims. 
Premiums can increase, for example, if there are a high number of claims for accidents or 
thefts in a certain area, whether or not an individual policyholder actually made a claim. This 
is because premiums are set to reflect the level of risk to insurers, and a high number of 
claims indicates a higher level of risk. So, theres no guarantee that this particular claim is 
the sole reason for Mr Bs new insurer charging a higher premium.
In any case, the potential increase in future premiums following a non-fault claim isnt 
something that is typically covered by a standard motor insurance policy  and indeed it isnt 
covered by Mr Bs. Avivas responsibility to Mr B in this case was to indemnify him against 
the damage to his vehicle  which it did. So, I wouldnt expect Aviva to pay, or to approach 
the third-party insurer to pay, for any increased premiums following a claim as this isnt 
covered under the insurance policy.
Mr B may have been unable to claim what he considers is an increased premium from the 
third-party insurer himself. But I dont think Aviva has acted unreasonably in not reclaiming 
this for him. 
Overall, I dont think that Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. So, 
I dont think it needs to pay any compensation to Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr B's complaint about Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Adam Golding
Ombudsman