DRN-4235778
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that delays they say were caused by Nationwide Building Societys 
solicitors meant their lifetime remortgage didnt complete before the offer expired.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C spoke with Nationwide in May 2022 with a view to applying for a lifetime 
mortgage to repay their existing mortgage. They submitted an application in June 2022 and 
a mortgage offer was issued on 5 July 2022. The offer was valid until 6 August 2022.
Mr and Mrs C had chosen solicitors from Nationwides panel, but the solicitors chosen 
werent able to act for remortgages in Scotland. Nationwide emailed Mr and Mrs C on 
21 July 2022 to tell them theyd need to instruct new solicitors. Mr C provided details of the 
new solicitors on 25 July 2022. The mortgage offer was extended to 17 September 2022. 
This was later extended until 22 September 2022.
Nationwides solicitors say that all documents were provided to Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors on 
17 August 2022. The documents were returned by Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors on 
7 September 2022 and received the following day by Nationwides solicitors. Nationwides 
solicitors werent able to request a redemption statement from the existing lender until this 
was received as it needed the existing account number.
Nationwides solicitors requested a redemption statement from the existing lender on 
9 September 2022. But the redemption statement wasnt sent until 20 September 2022 and 
received by Nationwide until 26 September 2022.The mortgage offer expired and 
Mr and Mrs C complained due to the rate they were being offered increasing.
Nationwide accepted that there had been a minor delay caused by it not passing on details 
of the new solicitor in a timely manner. It paid Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation for this. But 
Nationwide said the delays which meant the mortgage couldnt complete before the offer 
expired were down to Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors and delays in the redemption statement 
being received. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs C referred the complaint to our Service where one 
of our Investigators looked into matters. Our Investigator didnt think that delays by 
Nationwide meant the mortgage couldnt complete in time. He said the £200 compensation 
already paid was fair and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be considered by an 
Ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the timeline of events within the background section here. Ive based this 
on information provided by both Mr and Mrs C and Nationwides contact notes and email 
train.
I think that an error was made by Nationwide in allowing Mr and Mrs C to select a solicitor 
who couldnt act for remortgages in Scotland. However, it seems this was resolved within 
around three weeks from the offer being issued. Nationwide also extended the offer for 30 
days, and later another five days. So, I think any error here has been put right by this 
extension.
Nationwide has also recognised that it couldve passed details of the new solicitors acting for 
Mr and Mrs C to its own solicitors sooner. This is why its paid them £200 compensation.
All documents were sent to Mr and Mrs Cs solicitors on 17 August 2022. These documents 
werent returned until 7 September 2022. Its unclear what caused this delay. But I cant say 
that Nationwide was responsible for this. It seems that it still wouldve been possible for the 
remortgage to complete before the offer expired at this point. But Nationwide still required 
the redemption statement from the existing lender. 
I can see that the redemption statement was requested on 9 September 2022. 
Unfortunately, this wasnt produced by the lender until 20 September 2022 or received until 
26 September 2022. By this point, the offer had expired. Ultimately, its this delay that I think 
meant the remortgage couldnt complete before the offer expired. And as this isnt the fault of 
Nationwide, I cant say it should be responsible for any loss incurred here.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed by this decision. And, as Ive said, I 
agree there have been some delays caused by Nationwide. But I dont think these delays 
were the reason the remortgage couldnt complete before the offer expired. 
It was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to extend the offer by over 30 days in order that it 
could possibly complete in time. And I think the £200 compensation its paid to recognise the 
delays it did caused is fair in the circumstances. So, Im not going to ask it to do anything 
further.    
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman