DRN-2913582
The complaint
Ms Ks complaint is about a lifetime mortgage she has with Pure Retirement Limited. She 
says she found the process extremely frustrating and felt that Pures solicitors were inflexible 
and sometimes downright obstructive. The issues with the solicitors caused her purchase to 
fall through and left her with only a few days to find accommodation before she became 
homeless. 
Ms K would like to be reimbursed for the costs associated with the proposed purchase, the 
early repayment charge (ERC) and general costs. 
What happened
In late 2020 Ms K was selling her home and had applied to transfer her lifetime mortgage to 
her new home.  The application was agreed and Pure instructed its solicitors (which I will 
refer to as A) to deal with the transfer. A few days later it sent Ms Ks solicitor (which I will 
refer to as B) a pack detailing the process that would be gone through and various forms 
that it might need to complete as part of the process.
The mortgage offer was created by Pure on 10 November 2020. The offer was passed on to 
A, which then forwarded it to B for Mrs K to sign.  The signed offer was received by A on 16 
November 2020, along with a copy of the title for the property being bought and the 
searches that had been completed. 
A week later A contacted B. It had reviewed the documents it had received and asked for 
originals of some to be sent to it. It also asked some questions about the property and the 
identification process completed on Ms K. 
The following day B confirmed that it hadnt been able to see Ms K face-to-face.  It was sent 
a new form for the identification process to be used in such circumstances  stay at home 
identification. 
B contacted Ms K around the same time to confirm the details that it would need to provide 
to Pure about the insurance policy she was putting in place for the new property. This 
information would be needed for exchange of contracts. B confirmed that it had told A that 
the information wasnt available at the present time because Ms K would be using the same 
insurer to insure the new property as she used for the current one. 
On 30 November 2020 Ms K spoke to Pure and told it that she wanted to exchange that 
week in order to complete the purchase on 8 December 2020. Pure asked A to update B as 
to where the process was at.
A received further information from B on 1 December 2020 along with copies of some signed 
documents. Pure was made aware of this and that A was awaiting the originals of those 
documents before it could authorise exchange and a completion date could be set. 
Both Pure and B chased A on 3 December 2020 about whether exchange could take place. 
It appears that Ms K had told Pure that all of the information needed had been given to A. 
On 4 December 2020, A went back to B and reminded it that if it couldnt see its client 
face-to-face, it needed to use the stay at home version of the identification form. It reminded 
B that the original signed documents were required, and it was confirmed exactly what 
documents were needed. At the same time, the answers to the questions about the property 
title were forwarded to Pure for its consideration. Pure confirmed that it was satisfied with the 
answers and the purchase could continue.
Three days later B called A to confirm the outstanding documents were being posted that 
day. The payment of the Land Registry fee was discussed, and payment details were given. 
B asked if completion could be agreed for 14 December 2020. Agreement wasnt given. This 
appears to the first time a completion date had been mentioned. 
B confirmed on 8 December 2020 that the Land Registry fee had been paid by BACS. It also 
checked with A whether the original documents had been received. At the time of the call, it 
was confirmed the documents hadnt been logged on As system.  However, it was 
confirmed on 9 December 2020 that the documentation sent by B had been received. 
The same day A emailed B and reminded it that the identification form was inadequate as 
the stay at home form needed to have been used. A further copy of the form was attached. 
A pointed out that the buildings insurance certificate hadnt been completed or signed, which 
was needed to be submitted with the certificate of title. In addition, it said that the Land 
Registry fee hadnt yet been received. 
On 10 December 2020 B provided a scanned copy of the stay at home form and the 
buildings insurance form.  The two sets of solicitors spoke that day and it was confirmed that 
the originals of the documents would be needed. B told A that Ms K had agreed with the 
parties above and below her in the purchase chain, that completion would take place on 
Monday 14 December 2020. A said that it would see whether it could progress the mortgage 
with just scanned copies of the documents (given the originals were being posted tracked 
delivery that day), but it said that it was being put in a difficult position.  
In a further telephone call on the same day between the two firms of solicitors, it was 
confirmed that Ms K had arranged removals for the completion date shed agreed with her 
buyer and vendor. A reminded B that a mortgage offer, dated on the completion date, would 
need to be issued and accepted before completion could take place. It was said A would 
submit the certificate of title using the scanned documents, but the originals would need to 
be received before completion. However, even if this was done, it couldnt guarantee how 
quickly Pure could produce the new offer document. 
In relation to the identification form, B emailed a video showing Ms K at its office on that day 
signing the form. In light of this, the non-face-to-face identification form was not the relevant 
one to be used. As it had the earlier original identification form, A asked B for its 
authorisation to remove from the original the comment about not having seen Ms K in 
person.
However, that same day  Thursday - Ms K was told by Pure that her porting application was 
unlikely to complete the following Monday. Pure said when responding to Ms Ks complaint, 
that this information was correct, but that it should have offered Ms K support and offered to 
liaise with its solicitors to find out what was happening with the port of the mortgage. 
Ms K emailed B late that afternoon to confirm that she was withdrawing from the purchase, 
but would continue with her sale. B replied an hour later. It confirmed that it would exchange 
on the sale the following day and that it had informed her vendors solicitors that she might 
not be completing on the purchase because of problems with Pure. It said that once the exchange had completed on the sale, it would inform A that she wasnt proceeding on the 
purchase and would simply be repaying the mortgage on the following Monday. 
On 11 December 2020 Pure informed A that it had prepared the new mortgage offer for 
completion on the following Monday, just in case the port could go through. The offer was 
sent to A and Pure was made aware that A was still waiting for confirmation that the 
comment on the identification form could be removed and for the Land Registry fee.
Pure called Ms K later that afternoon to inform her that the mortgage offer had been 
produced. She questioned this as she had been told the previous day that this couldnt 
happen and so shed decided to pull out of the purchase. She said there was no way she 
could undo all the arrangements shed made and cancelled, as it had taken her all day to do 
so. She was asked by Pure if the purchase could be resurrected and Ms K said she didnt 
think she had time to do so. Pure confirmed that completion could be done with an emailed 
copy of the signed mortgage offer. Ms K said she would speak to her solicitors. 
Pure called Ms K again later that afternoon. It confirmed that it had checked with A and it 
was ok to proceed with completion on the following Monday. Ms K again said that she didnt 
think she had time to unpick all the onward arrangements. However, she asked that the offer 
be issued to B. Pure told her that if she sent it back on Monday morning the port could be 
completed. Ms K said she would think about it and let Pure know what shed decided.
The following day (Saturday) the mortgage offer was emailed to B. It responded by telling A 
that it was awaiting Ms Ks instructions. B informed A that Ms K was fed-up with how long 
the process had taken. She thought there was no possibility the offer could be returned in 
time, so she might just redeem the mortgage and not progress the purchase. 
On 14 December 2020, A confirmed that the Land Registry fee had been received, but it was 
still waiting for confirmation about the original ID form and the signed offer acceptance. It 
confirmed that it could progress with a scanned copy of the latter. However, B confirmed that 
Ms K wasnt going to progress with the purchase and the existing mortgage was to be 
redeemed.  Subsequently, the Land Registry fee was refunded to Ms K.
Ms K complained about what had happened and asked that Pure reimburse the costs 
associated with the failed purchase and the ERC shed had to pay.
Pure responded to Ms Ks complaint in early January 2021. It confirmed that it had told Ms K 
that her port wouldnt complete the following Monday because it hadnt received a request to 
complete by its solicitors. That was correct at the time, but it should have offered support 
and liaised with A to find out what was going on. It correctly told her the following day that 
completion could go through on the Monday. Pure said it understood why she redeemed her 
account as a result of her experience. It offered her £500 for the poor experience and the 
distress this may have caused her. It assured her that it had taken action to reduce the 
chance of this happening again in the future. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He acknowledged that the agreement for the port of the mortgage had been late in 
the day, but he was satisfied that Ms K could have gone ahead with her purchase had she 
wanted to. He was also satisfied that the £500 compensation offered was appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
Ms K disputed that she could have gone ahead with her purchase when she was told it could 
happen late on the Friday afternoon. This was because her solicitors would have had to 
immediately send the additional documentation Pure needed, she would have had to 
re-organise the insurance on the new property, cancel her new accommodation, re-arrange furniture removals, cancel her storage and the linked insurance. She didnt believe she could 
have done that so late on a Friday afternoon. In addition, she would have been on 
tenterhooks the whole weekend wondering if the mortgage would go through. If it then 
hadnt, shed have had nowhere to live or store her possessions. 
In relation to our investigators comments that there had been proposed dates for exchange 
that hadnt been met, she confirmed that was the case and that was the reason she had no 
faith in Pure. She said that each time Pure had told her that exchange was about to take 
place, its solicitors found something else was missing. The wrong ID form was Bs fault as it 
sent A the wrong form  the one it wanted was created at a later date.  
Our investigator considered Ms Ks further comments, but they didnt change his 
conclusions. Ms K remained adamant that she had no option other than to pull out of her 
purchase, given shed been told the day before there was no possibility of it happening. 
Our investigator remained satisfied the purchase could have completed. As such, it was 
decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms K decided to pull out of her purchase when she was told it was 
unlikely that it could happen on 14 December. Indeed, Pures member of staff suggested a 
miracle would be needed for it to happen. However, Ms K was directed to speak to her 
solicitor with the questions she had about what could be done about the situation, as Pure 
couldnt answer her questions. 
I dont know what that conversation resulted in, however, B doesnt appear to have been 
convinced the purchase couldnt happen. It confirmed to Ms K that it had warned the 
vendors solicitors that the purchase might not go ahead. B also told A that it was waiting for 
instruction from Ms K. It doesnt appear that confirmation was given that the purchase wasnt 
going ahead until the proposed completion date. 
The evidence indicates that the purchase could have completed on 14 December 2020, but 
for Ms Ks decision to pull out. As I say, I can understand the uncertainty about whether the 
purchase could complete would have made Ms K want to pull out. However, in order to 
require Pure to pay the costs of the failed purchase, I must find that it had done something 
wrong which led directly to the loss. I think the communication from A wasnt as good as it 
could have been and the timescales for it checking the information and evidence could have 
been better; that said it was a busy time of year, evidenced by both sets of solicitors working 
over the weekend.  I dont think the timescales for reviewing information were unreasonable 
in the circumstances.
That said, Pure wasnt unreasonable in requiring original signed documents and this is quite 
a normal requirement. I would also comment that even when requirements were set out 
clearly, the responses from B were not as quick as they could have been. Furthermore, it 
was not until the end of the working day before Ms Ks proposed completion date that the 
Land Registry fee was received. So I cant find that Pure was responsible for Ms K being in 
the position where she made the decision to pull out of her purchase. 
Pure offered Ms K £500 compensation for the poor service it provided her with. I have 
considered what happened carefully and I think it is an appropriate amount in the 
circumstances.My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms K to accept or reject my decision before 
7 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman