DRN-1770919
 
Complaint
Mr C and Miss P say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr C and Miss P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. Mr C and Miss P paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case 
either of them lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C and Miss P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr C and Miss Ps case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. So 
while I completely understand why Mr C and Miss P would like to see the documents from 
the sale, I think its also understandable that neither side still have them after all this time. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, Santander were required to dispose of Mr C and 
Miss Ps data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most 
likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Santander to have misled or unfairly pressured 
Mr C and Miss P into having PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what 
Santander did here. Nor have I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time 
 from what I can see, it looks like in order to get the policy, Mr C and Miss P wouldve 
needed to actively apply for it separately to applying for the lending itself. And this sale was 
too long ago for me to reasonably expect Santander to be able to produce documents from 
the time to defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that 
Santander misled or unfairly pressured Mr C or Miss P. I think its more likely that it followed 
a relatively normal sales process, offered them PPI, and they chose it at the time  though 
I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr C and Miss P, so it had to check it was right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr C and Miss P were eligible for the cover and werent affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations. They didnt have any significant alternative cover in 
place, which potentially left them at serious risk without PPI. Its worth bearing in mind that if theyd fallen behind on their mortgage payments, Mr C and Miss P couldve lost their home. 
So the PPI couldve really been useful for them in protecting their home.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mr C and Miss P about PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to 
have changed their minds. But as I said above, Mr C and Miss P werent affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr C and Miss P could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr C and Miss P mentioned in their correspondence that weve found many other 
policies to have been mis-sold, and I understand why they raised this. But different policies 
worked in different ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different 
methods at different times, and so on. So though some policies were mis-sold, it doesnt 
necessarily mean that another particular one was, too. Ive explained above why Ive not 
found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I set out above, I dont uphold Mr C and Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss P 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman