DRN-2893112
The complaint
Mr H, a sole trader, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly demanded repayment of two 
secured loans and failed to meet its obligations under the rules governing regulated 
mortgages.
What happened
Mr H has two business loans from Lloyds, both secured on a property in mixed commercial 
and residential use. Over 40% of the property is residential and is occupied by Mr H and 
members of his family. In a number of letters from 2006 onwards, the bank confirmed to 
Mr H that the lending was subject to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules for regulated 
mortgage contracts.
In August 2019 Lloyds sent letters to Mr H demanding repayment of the two loans because 
they were in default. 
Mr H complained to the bank, saying that Lloyds had rejected his proposal for a period of 
interest-only payments and it had made no other contact regarding his short-term financial 
difficulties. He felt the bank was taking an aggressive course of action and hadnt followed 
the rules in respect of a regulated mortgage contract. Mr H was unhappy with the banks 
response and he referred his complaint to this service.
Mr H has also complained about a number of other matters which are related to his personal 
guarantee for the borrowing of a limited company. To avoid any misunderstanding, I should 
make it clear that my decision here is entirely about Mr Hs complaint about his sole trader 
loans, and not about his complaint as a guarantor for the companys borrowing.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said I was minded not to uphold the complaint  for 
reasons I give below. I asked the parties if they wanted to send me anything further in 
response to my provisional findings.
Lloyds said it had nothing further to add.
Mr H didnt think my provisional findings were fair. In summary, he didnt believe the bank 
had been truthful  he said Lloyds answers were flat out lies and the banks approach 
answering our questions had made it more likely that the case would go against him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the two loans are regulated mortgage contracts and are therefore subject to 
the FCAs handbook rules set out in MCOB. The bank regards the loans as regulated 
mortgage contracts and has written to Mr H regularly since 2006 to confirm that.
Mr H has said that Lloyds failed to comply with its obligations under MCOB  specifically 
those in MCOB 13.4. For this reason, I asked the bank to send me evidence regarding its 
actions regarding the rules in MCOB 13.4. I also asked Mr H what problems were caused for 
him by the alleged non-compliance with the rules.
Mr H said the bank had sent only the final notice with no warning or any other information, 
after one missed payment. He said the harm suffered was the dispute it caused within his 
household and the resulting stress for his parents, who viewed Lloyds actions as a 
precursor to the bank trying to make them homeless.
In reply to my request, Lloyds sent me copies of the letters sent to Mr H in January, February 
and June 2019 concerning his payments and arrears on the loans, in advance of the formal 
demand letters in August 2019.
MCOB 13.4 sets out requirements for lenders to send specified information to borrowers 
when there are arrears. In summary, lenders should send a list of the missed payments, the 
total shortfall, the total debt excluding redemption charges, and an indication of the charges 
likely to be incurred if the shortfall isnt cleared. They should also send a copy of an advice 
leaflet about problems paying a mortgage. The rules are slightly complicated, in that not all 
the information needs to be repeated each time if the arrears arent cleared between notices.
Ive looked carefully at all the letters Lloyds sent to Mr H about shortfalls in 2019 and, as far 
as I can see, they gave the information required by MCOB 13.4, as listed above, including 
the advice leaflet. Im satisfied that the bank complied with the formal requirements of 
MCOB 13.4 regarding the information about arrears. 
More important, in my view, than simple compliance with the rules, is whether the bank 
acted to alert Mr H about the repayment arrears and shortfalls in terms that were clear. I find 
that Lloyds did inform Mr H clearly about the arears on his loans and that it therefore acted 
fairly and reasonably.
MCOB 13.4 also specifies the steps that lenders must take before action for repossession. 
But Lloyds didnt act to repossess the property, so these provisions didnt come into play.
I therefore conclude that Lloyds didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in respect 
of the requirements in MCOB 13.4. I think the bank provided the information that Mr H 
needed and was entitled to.
In addition, Mr H has said that confusion was caused by other letters sent around the same 
time. But the letters hes referring to were about the debts of the limited company and about 
his personal guarantee. As I said above, those are not matters I can deal with in this 
decision, which is about his own loans.
Mr H has also complained that his arrears werent serious enough to have warranted a 
formal demand for repayment. But the loan accounts had a history of arrears and previous 
capital repayment holidays, and Mr H had requested another interest-only period. 
Furthermore, the bank had issued an additional repayment demand  quite separately from 
Mr Hs loans  for another sum which was also secured on the same property. That event 
had brought into question the security position of his own loans. Taking all the circumstances 
into account, I dont think Lloyds actions to seek repayment of the loans were unfair or 
unreasonable.
Mr H believes the problems have been compounded by the bank regarding him as a sole 
trader. But its clear from the loan documentation that the lending was for purposes of his 
business. Furthermore, Mr H has told us of the plans he made to purchase fixtures, fittings and stock to set up a new business during the events in the complaint. I dont think its unfair 
or unreasonable of the bank to regard Mr Hs loans as sole trader loans, albeit subject to the 
rules for regulated mortgage contracts. 
Mr H believes Lloyds hasnt provided full or truthful answers to the questions asked by the 
ombudsman service. Ive looked carefully at the submissions and Ive seen nothing that 
leads me to conclude the bank has falsified any information or withheld any material 
evidence. Im satisfied that the evidence provided by both parties has enabled me to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments, I dont depart from my provisional 
decision.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties in Mr Hs family and the stress suffered by his parents. I 
appreciate that problems with loans secured on residential properties can cause great 
anxiety. Having said that, I dont think the bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably, for the 
reasons given above. As yet, the bank has not pursued recovery of the property. Lloyds has 
said it would prefer to seek an amicable settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman