DRN-1429323
The complaint
Miss P complains that Brightside insurance Services Limited cancelled her motor insurance 
policy and charged her a cancellation fee. 
What happened
Miss P took out a policy through Brightside and it asked her for information to validate the 
policy. Miss P said she provided this, but Brightside then cancelled her policy. Brightside 
said it had sent emails, a text and a letter to Miss P asking her for further information. It 
cancelled the policy when it didnt receive any response and took the outstanding balance 
from her card. It later returned this and reduced its £60 cancellation fee to £30. Its now 
seeking the outstanding balance.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Brightside 
had recorded the wrong email address for Miss P, and so she didnt receive its requests. 
Miss P said she hadnt received the text or letter. And he thought that she would have 
responded if she had. So he thought Brightside hadnt provided fair warning of the 
cancellation of the policy. To put things right, he thought Brightside should remove records of 
the cancellation, deduct the cancellation fee from the balance owed and pay Miss P £100 
compensation for her trouble and upset. 
Brightside replied that it had confirmed the email address with Miss P. It said it had provided 
evidence that it had sent the letter and text message. Brightside asked for an ombudsmans 
review, so the complaints come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the brokers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably. 
Miss P took out her policy through an online comparison site. She then had a telephone 
conversation with Brightside to confirm various details, during which she notified it of a 
change in her email address. But Brightside also wanted further information about her 
driving licence and No Claims Discount in order to validate the policy. I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Brightside to contact Miss P to ask for this information.
Miss P had stated that her preferred means of contact was email. But Brightside now 
accepts that her new email address was recorded incorrectly. So Miss P didnt receive any 
of its emailed requests. 
Miss P said she also didnt receive its text or letter. Ive no reason to doubt that Brightside 
sent these. But these werent Miss Ps preferred method of contact. I think Miss P would 
have responded if she had been aware that Brightside wanted further information. But I cant 
see that she was made aware of the information Brightside was seeking. 
So Miss P didnt receive any notification in the preferred medium shed recorded that there 
were issues with her policy. This was due to Brightsides error as it had incorrectly recorded 
her new email address. So I think the policy was unfairly cancelled.
Putting things right
Brightside refunded the outstanding balance it had taken from Miss Ps account. It also 
waived half its cancellation fee, reducing the amount owed. I think its fair and reasonable for 
Miss P to pay for her time on cover and the commission, but I require Brightside to do the 
following to restore Miss Ps position:
Remove all of its cancellation fee from the amount owed.
Remove any records of the cancellation from any databases where its been recorded.
Pay Miss P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
cancellation of her policy without fair notice and deduct any outstanding balance from 
this sum. This is in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Brightside insurance Services Limited to put things right for Miss P as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman