DRN-3766141
The complaint
Mr G complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege undervalued his car
following his claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
After Mr Gs car was damaged in an accident Privilege decided that it was uneconomical to 
repair. So they offered him an amount for its market value, which they said reflected its pre-
accident damage. This was £3090, less his policy excess.
Mr G said that wasnt his cars true value as it wasnt enough to buy a replacement car. He
thought that his car was worth £6000 to £7000. He felt that Privilege had mislead him into
taking out the policy and it was unfair for them to rely on their engineers personal opinion of
its value.
Privilege said that theyd made deductions from his valuation as his car had pre-accident
damage. They said they were entitled to rely on their engineers opinion about that, and Mr
G hadnt provided any expert evidence to contradict that.
The investigator thought that Privilege hadnt fairly valued his car in line with motor trade
guides, taking into account their deductions for Mr Gs cars pre-accident damage. So she
recommended that Privilege should increase the amount for his cars value and also pay him
compensation for his distress and inconvenience. Neither Mr G nor Privilege agreed, and so
Mr Gs case was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 31 August 2022. Both Mr G and Privilege responded, 
and as a result I asked them for some further information. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows :
Mr Gs car insurance policy says that Privilege will pay his cars market value which The
cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model, and of a similar age
and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
The investigator explained to Mr G our approach regarding complaints about car valuations.
They also explained that Privilege arent required to put him back in the same position that
he was in before the claim took place. We dont decide what the market value of a car is; we
merely consider whether the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having
regard to the valuations in the trade guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may
provide, and that might include advertisements detailing the sale prices of similar cars. 
He also said that second-hand car prices had gone up since the accident and so Privilege
should pay him more. But he hadnt sent any persuasive evidence to show how that applied
to his own car. And we bear in mind that cars usually sell for less than the advertised price,
so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any advertised prices. And although Mr G says he
wants his cars true value, we think that assessing the value of a used car isnt an
exact science.
Ive looked at how Privilege say they worked out his cars market value. Privilege at first
explained to us that they had used Mr Gs cars trade value from the trade guides, rather
than its retail value. This was because they felt it better reflected the pre-accident damage
they said his car had. This isnt in accordance with our guidelines as Mr Gs policy wasnt a
trade car insurance policy.
However Privilege then said theyd made deductions to his cars retail market value for pre-
existing damage to the car as follows :
Front bumper £1068
OSR door and  panel damaged £600
NSF door damaged £442
Privilege said that these deductions represented 50% of the cost of repairing these items
and so was in line with the Financial Ombudsmans broad-brush approach re valuing and
deducting for pre-existing car damage.
As the investigator explained, as pre-existing damage will often have a detrimental effect on
a vehicle's market value, our approach is that there is nothing necessarily wrong with an
insurer making a deduction because of pre-existing damage. And its true that taking 50% of
the repair cost of pre-existing damage to a car and deducting that from its market value is in
line with our Services established broad-brush approach. However we would expect to see
an engineers report detailing pre-existing damage, and why they believed them to be pre-
existing, as well as an itemised estimate of the costs of their repair.
Privilege had sent us their total loss report dated February 2021. It said the £3090 was
agreed with Mr G. It includes photographs and it says that Mr Gs car pre-accident condition
was poor, its tyres were unavailable, and it was dismantled and unroadworthy. It said it had
damage to the centre front, mechanical and underbody. 
But the report didnt explain how the market value offer was reached. It didnt distinguish 
between what damage was accident damage and what was pre-existing damage, and its 
not possible to tell from the photos whether the damage they show was pre-existing or not. It 
also didnt mention the above specific deduction amounts that Privilege claimed, or itemise 
the repair costs for accident damage or for pre-existing damage.
Although Privilege say their engineer did work out the above deductions they claimed, the
February 2021 report doesnt show that. So Privilege havent shown that they told Mr G how
theyd reached their market value offer, or the deductions theyd made and why. And I dont
think thats fair. Privileges final response letter to Mr Gs complaint doesnt show that either.
As Privilege had not produced an itemised estimate of the repair costs for what they said
was pre-existing damage, the investigator asked them for that. Privilege then said that Mr
Gs cars market value was the retail values from two trade guides, which I will call A and B.
Guide A valued the car at £5200 and Guide B valued the car at £5350. The average of these
valuations is £5275. The investigator has checked these and found them to be correct for Mr
Gs car.Privilege then sent us an estimated repair report dated October 2021 which showed the pre-
existing damage repair costs as being over £4000. I dont think its necessary here to detail 
all the figures. But in short, Privilege said that taking 50% of that amount (in line with our
stated approach) away from the £5275, gave a figure which was slightly more than the
£3090 theyd offered, but not too far from it. So they maintained that their £3090 remained
an acceptable market value offer.
However I dont think that approach for the deductions works because the October 2021
repair estimate for the pre-existing damage does not itemise a cost for each item of it. And it
also doesnt tie in with what Privilege said they did in fact deduct for pre-existing damage.
Thats the specific figures above (£1068, £600 and £442). And so I think in this case it is
more appropriate to take each of those Privileges figures individually and see if it was fair for
Privilege to make the deductions for them that they did.
Regarding the bumper, Privilege said that Mr G had made a previous claim for damage to
that in 2018.Theyd paid him cash to settle that claim, so that he could pay to repair it
himself, but he hadnt repaired it. So they deducted half of that, which was £1068. I think its
unlikely that Privilege would mispresent a previous claim made against them or what they
did to settle it, so Im willing to be persuaded by that. I think it would be fair for them to
deduct that amount from Mr Gs market value settlement on this current claim, as otherwise
theyd be paying twice for the same damage.
However as regards the OSR door and  panel damaged £600 and the NSF door
damaged £442 I dont think that Privilege have adequately shown that these matters were
pre-existing damage and not accident-related, or that their deductions for them were fair or
reasonable. They are not proven by the photos; they are not supported by an engineers
report and the repair estimate report of October 2021 does not itemise their stated repair
costs. So I dont think they have acted fairly with regards to the valuation, and I dont think
its reasonable to make any deductions for those items.
I think Privileges last suggested approach to the starting point for the cars market valuation
is a fair one. Thats the average of guides A and B above, which is £5275. Deducting £1068
from that leaves £4207.
£4207 is £1117 more than the £3090 they have already offered Mr G. So I think that
Privilege should pay him £1117, plus interest on it, as he has lost the use of that money. Its
not clear if Privilege have paid him the £3090 less policy excess, although the investigator
asked him to confirm that. But if Privilege have not paid him that yet, they should obviously
do that too.
I see that since Mr G brought this complaint to us, he has mentioned that if Privilege didnt
pay him what he thought was his cars true value, he would like Privilege to give him his own
car back. However Privilege said that his car had been disposed of. I havent seen anything
in the evidence provided to suggest that Mr G did ask Privilege to have his car back, in the
course of his claim. If he had wanted to buy back his car, or (or enquire about the option to
buy it )then it would have been up to him to raise the issue with Privilege. So I dont think
Privilege have done anything wrong there. And if Mr G had bought his car back, Privilege
would have been entitled to deduct any salvage value from the market value they offered
him.
Mr G tells us hes been unwell for some time and that Privileges actions caused him stress,
and inconvenience and he still hasnt bought another car. I can see that Privilege didnt show
or explain their deductions to Mr G either in their total loss report of February 2021,or in their
response to his complaint. I think that this was unclear and that Mr G has been worriedbecause he doesnt understand how Privilege have come up with the settlement offer. I think
this increased his stress and inconvenience. I think Privilege should therefore pay him £200
compensation for this.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive discussed above, its my provisional decision that I uphold this
complaint and I require U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege to do the following:
 pay Mr G £3090, less policy excess, if they have not already done so
 pay Mr G £1117
 add interest on the £1117 at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of total loss
to the date they pay it to him
 pay Mr G compensation of £200.
Mr G and Privilege both responded to my provisional decision.
Mr G thought that this new total loss claim shouldnt have anything to do with his previous 
claim for the bumper damage that Privilege had paid him for already. He said it was history 
and it was his discretion to accept a cash settlement for that and do the repairs himself, or 
not. Thats true, but pre-existing damage does reduce the overall value of his car and if 
Privilege have paid for that damage already, they arent required to pay for it again. So 
theyre entitled to make a deduction for it from their market value settlement. 
Mr G also said that he hadnt bought a new vehicle and had spent £2,000 on taxis. But 
Privilege have shown us that they paid him the market value settlement, less his policy 
excess, in March 2021. So he would have been able to buy a vehicle with that, and we 
would expect someone to do that to mitigate their loss. 
Mr G repeated that used car values had gone up and similar cars to his were now being 
advertised online for £6,500. However as I said in my provisional decision, Privilege fairly 
valued his car at the date of the accident, and we would see any interest award as making 
up for any loss of use of money.  
Mr G have sent us some additional photos of his car taken in 2019 and these do support that 
there was some pre-existing damage to it, including the bumper. However Privilege have 
given us yet another completely different set of figures for the various items of pre-existing 
damage and say they have paid Mr G those as cash payments. 
These figures do not correspond to the information Privilege previously gave us, nor are they 
supported by any objective evidence such as screenshots of their payment records of those 
payments. They also arent supported by the engineers report or any repair cost estimate 
report. 
So I still dont think that Privilege have adequately shown that all their deductions for pre-
existing damage were fair and I dont think its reasonable to make the deductions they claim 
for those items. The one exception is the claim for bumper damage. Thats is because Mr G 
said that Privilege did make payment to him for the bumper. Privilege now say that payment 
was £1027, less than what they previously claimed, but theyve been unable or unwilling to 
provide objective confirmation of that despite many opportunities. And as Mr G has said he 
doesnt want to comment any more, I dont intend to ask him about it. So I will use that figure 
of £1027 and take that from the market value stated above of £5275. This leaves £4248. 
Thats £1158 more than the £3090 Privilege offered Mr G in settlement and so I think that Privilege should pay Mr G £1158. I think thats a fair approach overall and I make no other 
changes to my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require U K Insurance Limited trading as Privilege to :   
 pay Mr G £1158
 pay Mr G interest on the £1158 at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of total loss
to the date they pay it to him
 pay Mr G compensation of £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
If Privilege consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr G how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mr G a tax deduction certificate if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
