DRN-1476736
 
complaint
Mrs D complains that she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc (HSBC).
background
Mrs D took out a mortgage with HSBC in 1996. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy 
which wouldve covered the repayments on her mortgage for up to a year at a time if she 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mrs D says she didnt know the PPI was optional. She says it wasnt explained and if anyone 
had asked her about her needs it would have been clear she didnt need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Mrs D disagrees, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
The PPI was sold nearly 24 years ago, so its not surprising that neither party has any 
documents from the time. Mrs D says that the mortgage, and therefore likely the PPI, was 
sold during a meeting. HSBC cant be sure how it was sold, but Mrs Ds explanation seems 
reasonable to me. 
Mrs D says she didnt know the PPI was optional. HSBC says Mrs D would only have PPI if 
she had made an active choice to buy it. HSBC has provided this service with a sample copy 
of the application form that Mrs D would have needed to complete. And HSBC explains that 
Mrs D would also have had to complete a separate direct debit mandate to pay for the 
premiums. I dont think its likely that Mrs D wouldve had the PPI policy without completing 
these forms. 
Given the length of time that has passed and the lack of supporting evidence for Mrs Ds 
complaint, I cant safely say that Mrs D was led to believe that the PPI wasnt optional.
Its not clear whether HSBC gave Mrs D a personal recommendation to take the PPI, but Ive 
worked on the basis that it did, because it holds HSBC to a higher standard  it would have 
needed to take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for Mrs D.
Looking at Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale I think that any such recommendation 
would have been suitable for her. I say this because: 
Mrs D was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any terms which 
mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as those 
related to existing medical conditions or self-employment. Mrs D has provided 
evidence that she had medical problems from 1998 onwards. But this was after the 
policy was sold and she could have claimed under the policy if shed needed to.
Mrs D wouldve only received statutory sick pay if she was too ill to work. Its unlikely 
this wouldve covered her mortgage and other household expenses for long, if at all. 
The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to the sick pay and for up to 12 months at a 
time. As Mrs D was solely responsible for the mortgage I think it was important she 
had alternative means to meet her repayments;
Similarly, Mrs D was only entitled to statutory redundancy pay. Again, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months at a time. Its likely that 
Mrs Ds redundancy pay wouldve only amounted to a few weeks pay, so I think it 
was important Mrs D had another way to make her repayments;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market at the 
same time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled or amended at any time without a 
financial penalty.
 
Its possible HSBC didnt give Mrs D all the information she needed about the policy. But I 
dont think even if Mrs D had all the information she needed that shed have made a different 
decision about buying the policy, because it was suitable for her in the way Ive already 
described. 
So I dont think Mrs D lost out as a result of anything HSBC might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint so it follows that HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman