DRN-3028285
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) irresponsibly and unfairly allowed 
credit limit increases on his credit card.
Mr M has been represented when bringing this complaint. For ease, any reference I make to 
him includes his representatives unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties so Ive summarised events.
Mr M took out a Vanquis credit card in January 2011. Across the life of the card the 
credit limit was increased in June 2014, December 2016, and May 2017.
Mr M says Vanquis failed to carry out sufficient checks at the sale of the card and at 
each credit increase. And as the limit was unaffordable for Mr M, it was inevitable he 
would default on his repayments and go into debt.
An objection was received from Vanquis on the jurisdiction of our service to 
investigate this complaint. Our service issued a decision which determined the initial 
sale and June 2014 increases were brought too late, but we were able to consider 
the subsequent credit increases. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said both in 2016 
and 2017 Mr M appeared to be maintaining his debts. While hed been over his credit 
limit for a period in 2016, this was rectified some months prior to the December 
increase. Following this (up until the next increase) hed managed the account well 
within the credit limit, and his external lending had decreased. 
The investigator also said shed been given no evidence to indicate (such as a credit 
report) Mr M was in financial difficulties more widely, nor that hed told Vanquis of any 
financial concerns. So, she was satisfied Vanquis increases were reasonable and it 
had carried out sufficient checks.
Mr Ms representative disagreed. He said Mr Ms bank statements showed he was in 
difficulty and further lending was unaffordable. As an example he said in November 
2016 it was clear Mr M had withdrawn around £2,700 in cash to pay for his essential 
monthly expenses and priority bills. The representative also asked for weight to be 
placed on Mr M making only minimum payments.
The investigator looked again, but disagreed, saying it would be unusual to pay 
priority and monthly expenses in cash and there was no evidence of this, and Mr M 
had used that account for items and expenses more generally. She also didnt agree 
making minimum payments was a sign of financial difficulty. 
So the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.
Lenders dont have set checks that they have to undertake when considering an 
application for credit. But they do have a responsibility to carry out appropriate and 
proportionate checks to ensure that the consumer can afford the lending.
For both increases, Vanquis carried out searches for CCJs, recent previous defaults, 
and overall external lending. These searches didnt show anything concerning. And 
in light of the sums involved, Im satisfied these were proportionate searches.
December 2016 increase  I agree with our investigator that Mr Ms bank statements 
around this time do not indicate any financial difficulties. And Im not persuaded by 
his representatives claim that a sum of £2,700 was used in cash to pay essential and 
priority bills  I say this because this hasnt been supported by any evidence.
May 2017 increase  again, I agree with our investigator that Mr Ms financial position 
appeared to improve in light of his reduced external debt. 
Im not persuaded Mr Ms use of minimum repayments shows he was in financial 
difficulty  particularly in light of all the surrounding evidence mentioned above.
So overall, Ive seen nothing to persuade me Vanquis actions were unfair or 
unreasonable in providing further credit.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman