DRN-3127699
The complaint
Mr B complains Metro Bank PLCs didnt warn him that it was about to change its processes 
and, as a result, he wasnt able to update his mobile number or access his account online.
What happened
Mr B has a current account with Metro Bank. He opened the account in 2016 and was living 
in the UK at the time. He says he had to open the account in order to get a Metro Bank 
mortgage. He set up a couple of direct debits and made payments towards his credit card  
issued by another bank. He says he has a current account with another bank and that his 
Metro Bank account isnt his main account.
In August 2020 Mr B wanted to log onto his online banking but found he couldnt do so as he 
needed a one-time passcode in order to log on and the mobile number Metro Bank had for 
him was out of date. So, he called Metro Bank to update his mobile number  from an old 
UK mobile number to a foreign mobile number as he was abroad at the time. He answered a 
number of security questions  all successfully so  and was then asked for the number on 
the front of his debit card. Mr B said he didnt have his debit card with him  hed destroyed it 
as he never used it so felt it was risky keeping it. Metro Bank said that without the number on 
his debit card it wouldnt be able to update his mobile no. Metro Bank said that the only other 
way Mr B could update his details was to come into branch  something he said he couldnt 
do as he was overseas. Metro Bank also said it had updated its processes for online banking 
and that hed need a one-time passcode in order to log into his account.
Mr B complained to Metro Bank saying that it hadnt warned him that it was about to change 
its processes meaning hed not been able to change his details beforehand and was now 
unable to access his account. Mr B tried to change his number again after Metro Bank had 
identified an exceptions process, and was able to add a foreign number to his account which 
Metro Bank said it was happy to call him on to speak about his complaint, for example. 
Metro Bank said, however, that in order to log into his online banking or make online 
payments hed need to provide a UK mobile number as it could only send one-time 
passcodes to a UK number. Metro Bank said Mr B could use its telephone banking service 
as an alternative. Mr B was unhappy with Metro Banks response  saying that it would be 
incredibly expensive for him to call from overseas  and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and said that they thought Metro Bank 
could have done more to help. Our investigator recommended £100 in compensation. Metro 
Bank didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look into this complaint. So thats what 
Ive done. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B complained to Metro Bank in November 2020 that he wasnt able to access his online 
banking because Metro Bank was saying hed need to authenticate using a one-time 
passcode sent to a mobile phone  and he didnt have a mobile phone. Mr B complained 
that this was in breach of clear guidance that the Financial Conduct Authority had issued.
Metro Bank said that it had made changes to its online banking in order to implement new 
regulations that came into effect in September 2019  namely the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) 
to apply strong customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are 
set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a payment 
service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as PSD2  define strong customer authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that the 
breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with the 
elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The changes that Metro Bank made to its processes  and the difficulties they 
caused Mr B because hes abroad  is at the heart of this complaint.
Metro Banks approach to implementing strong customer authentication
Metro Bank has, broadly speaking, three ways in which its customers can authenticate, but 
all of them involve at one stage or another their customer having a UK number. Mr B doesnt 
think thats fair. Before I say more, it probably helps to explain what the FCA has said on 
strong customer authentication.What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical 
understanding of the requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will 
experience regulatory supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate 
ways (but not the only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and 
rules. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas 
without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly 
authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Should Metro Bank have done more for Mr B when he originally complained?
Mr B has told us that he doesnt own a UK mobile phone. So Ive taken the papers the FCA 
has published on strong customer authentication and its thoughts  particularly in relation to 
people who do not possess a mobile  into account when deciding whether or not Metro 
Bank should have done more when Mr B originally complained and whether or not its actions 
were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In addition, Ive taken the Payment 
Services Regulations  in particular, Article 100  into account as well as FCA Principle 6  
that firms must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. Ive also 
taken into account Metro Banks argument that its accounts are meant for UK residents.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Metro Bank could and should have done 
more here.
Putting things right
Following my involvement, and at my suggestion, Metro Bank agreed to pay Mr B £250 in 
compensation. Mr B has told me hes happy to accept that on the basis that hell have to use 
telephone banking instead.
Metro Bank has said that it is considering exiting its relationship with Mr B as its accounts are meant for UK residents and Mr B appears to be living abroad. I havent factored that into 
this decision as Metro Bank hasnt taken steps to exit its relationship with Mr B. Should it do 
so, Mr B might complain, and that complaint might come to us. But that would be a new 
complaint, so Im going to say no more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr B £250 in compensation in full 
and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman