DRN-2542693
The complaint
Mr L complains that Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance 
(Close Brothers) should not have repossessed a car he had been financing through an 
agreement with them and that they havent reduced the balance on the account since they 
sold the car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The finance agreement allowed Close Brothers to terminate the agreement if Mr L didnt 
keep up with his payments and that was the case when the account was defaulted.
The terms also allowed Close Brothers to terminate the agreement if the vehicle was 
removed from the UK without the business prior consent. Ive reviewed the business case 
file and can see Mr L told them he was moving to a new UK address in June 2016. But 
theres no record of him telling the business he was moving to Spain and taking the car with 
him. I think there would have been if he had told Close Brothers of his intentions. So, I think 
Close Brothers were acting fairly when seeking to terminate the agreement. 
The terms of Mr Ls finance agreement said:
If you do not keep your side of the agreement but you have paid at least one third of the 
total amount payable under this agreement that is £6,003.87 we may not take back the
goods against your wishes unless we get a court order. (In Scotland we may need to get a 
court order at any time). If we do take the goods without your consent or a court order,
you have the right to get back any money that you have paid under this agreement.
I dont agree with the way Mr L has calculated total amount payable under the agreement.
The total amount payable under the agreement consisted of the total cash price of the goods 
and the total charge for credit. That came to £18,011.60 and meant that at least £6,003.87 
needed to be paid against the agreement if Close Brothers were to require a court order to 
repossess the vehicle; if its terms were not complied with. 
I can see that, including the deposit, Mr L had paid £5,890.40 when the car was 
repossessed so I dont think Close Brothers needed to get a court order or that they did 
anything wrong when repossessing the car.
Mr L complained that Close Brothers had not deducted the sale price from the outstanding 
debt, but it seems that was because they hadnt sold the car at that point. Close Brothers 
have confirmed that they have now sold the car and that they have written off the balance on 
the agreement and have notified the credit reference agencies of the new position. I dont 
think they need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman