DRN-4020195
The complaint
Mr P complained because he feels TS Capital Limited provided poor investment advice and 
investment management.
Mr P is being represented by a claims management company however, for ease, I will just 
refer to Mr P throughout my decision.
There have been numerous businesses involved in this matter and I think its helpful to set 
out the ones Ill be referring to here:
The Financial Factory Ltd  this is the business who advised Mr P to switch his self-
invested person pension (SIPP) and to use a discretionary fund manager (DFM)
TS Capital Limited  this is the business who this complaint is against
Horizon Stockbroking Limited (also known as TS Capital Wealth)  this is a business 
who provides discretionary fund management services
Although the names are similar, TS Capital Wealth and TS Capital Limited are separate 
legal entities and arent the same business. Because the names are similar, to avoid 
confusion I will refer to TS Capital Limited as TS Capital and to Horizon Stockbroking 
Limited/TS Capital Wealth as Horizon Stockbroking.
What happened
In 2016 Mr P received an unsolicited telephone call and was offered a review of his pension. 
He was put in touch with The Financial Factory, who persuaded him to switch his existing 
SIPP to another SIPP and to use a DFM to manage the underlying investments. The SIPP 
was switched in October 2016.
In December 2016 Mr P completed a form for Horizon Stockbroking. This confirmed he was 
applying for an advisory account, and the following information was noted:
his attitude to risk was assessed as moderate
he wanted to invest his funds over the next three to seven years
he was inexperienced in investing.
In January 2017 Mr P signed a power of attorney which gave Horizon Stockbroking authority 
over the SIPP and the investments that were to be made.
 
In March 2017 just over £88,000 was transferred from Mr Ps SIPP to the DFM. Mr P said he 
didnt know where the funds would be invested. He believed TS Capital had full control of 
his investments on his behalf.
In 2018 Mr P withdrew £20,486.44 from the SIPP as a tax-free lump sum. The remainder 
stayed invested. In February 2020 he switched the SIPP to a different provider  just over 
£45,000 was switched.
Mr P complained to TS Capital in 2021 as he felt the investment of his funds wasnt in line 
with its discretionary mandate. Amongst other things, he felt there had been:
inadequate diversification of the investments
excessive fees
a high rate of investment switches
an unsuitably high risk strategy.
TS Capital didnt consider the complaint as it felt it should be referred to Horizon 
Stockbroking. It said TS Capital was the custodian and settlement agent for the transactions 
whereas Horizon Stockbroking was the DFM for Mr Ps account. Mr P remained unhappy, so 
referred his complaint to us.
I previously issued a decision confirming that Mr Ps complaint fell within our jurisdiction as 
he had a direct customer relationship with TS Capital (which was one of the requirements for 
a consumer being able to bring a complaint to us).
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt there was 
insufficient evidence to show that TS Capital was Mr Ps DFM and, therefore, that it was 
responsible for the investments made on his behalf. Although Mr P felt the discretionary 
mandate had been breached, our investigator didnt think any evidence had been provided 
to show there was a discretionary mandate with TS Capital.
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He said Id already decided that TS Capital was 
responsible for the management of his funds and that our investigator had now reconsidered 
that issue and over-ruled me. He also didnt think our investigator had considered the 
substantive merits of his complaint ie the adequacy of TS Capitals investment management.
As such, the complaint has been passed back to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr Ps response to our investigators assessment is essentially that Id previously decided 
that TS Capital was responsible for the management of his funds and that shed decided 
something different, I want to firstly confirm and clarify my earlier findings.
The sole purpose of my previous decision was to decide whether or not Mr Ps complaint fell 
within our jurisdiction. I wasnt making any judgement on whether Mr Ps complaint about TS 
Capital had any merits. One of the many criteria that Mr P had to meet for his complaint to 
be within our jurisdiction was that he had a customer relationship with TS Capital. Having 
considered the available evidence I cited that fact that TS Capital executed trades on Mr Ps 
behalf and had assisted with the investment of his funds. And I concluded that Mr P did 
therefore have a customer relationship with TS Capital.
To be clear, I made no comment or judgement on whether Mr Ps customer relationship with 
TS Capital was in respect of any DFM arrangement between the two parties that was in 
place or on whether TS Capital was responsible for any advice or trades being within any 
mandate or authorisation that Mr P gave. The strength of Mr Ps complaint and the outcome of it in my opinion hinges on the answers 
to two questions. First, was TS Capital responsible for the management of Mr Ps investment 
and the advice/trades that were made? If yes, was the management of the investments and 
the advice/trading etc in line with the mandate given?
Was TS Capital responsible for the management of Mr Ps investment and the advice/trades 
made?
Ive seen various documents which, in my view, clearly show that Mr P didnt appoint TS 
Capital to be his DFM and didnt provide it with any mandate. I refer to:
a Horizon Stockbroking application form 
a Product Provider Acceptance Form/Power of Attorney that Mr P signed on 12 January 
2017  this was Mr Ps specific authorisation for a third party to act on his behalf and 
said
oit needed to be completed if Mr P wanted someone else to be able to give 
instructions on his account
oMr P accepted the [Horizon Stockbroking] Best Execution Policy and he gave his 
consent that [Horizon Stockbroking] may execute orders on his behalf
oMr P applied for a [Horizon Stockbroking] Discretionary Account
oand was countersigned by a Mr M on behalf of Horizon Stockbroking.
a SIPP Dealing Account Transfer Form that Mr P signed on 27 January 2017
othis said that Mr P wished to appoint Horizon Stockbroking having Power of 
Attorney over the new account
oit asked for the form to be returned to Horizon Stockbroking.
an email (part of a wider email trail that Ill comment on further below) from the SIPP 
administrator to Mr M which said
othe SIPP administrator had recently received documents stating that Mr P no 
longer wanted Horizon Stockbroking to be his investment manager.
Ive also seen information and documents that muddy the waters slightly:
it appears Mr M was registered as having permission to give advice for both TS Capital 
and Horizon Stockbrokers.
the email trail I referred above was between the SIPP administrator and Mr M, and 
concerned Mr Ps apparent wish to change investment managers
oMr M was communicating with the SIPP administrator from a TS Capital email 
address in his capacity as an advisory investment manager
oother reference was made simply to TS Capital but its not clear whether that 
reference was in respect to TS Capital Limited or Horizon Stockbroking.
an email Mr M sent to Mr P (from a TS Capital email address in his capacity as an 
advisory investment manager) said we are regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority but went on to quote Horizon Stockbrokers reference number.
Ive also seen a contract note that shows details of a particular trade. This is a TS Capital 
document and says that as agent it bought some shares on Mr Ps behalf. At the bottom it 
says the transaction was executed by TS Capital.The fact Mr M could give advice for TS Capital and Horizon Stockbrokers and him 
communicating to both the SIPP administrator and Mr P from a TS Capital email doesnt 
make things entirely clear. However, in my view, the weight of documentary evidence from 
the time of the transfer shows on the balance of probabilities that TS Capital wasnt 
appointed or authorised by Mr P to manage or otherwise advise on the investments held 
within his SIPP. Im particularly persuaded by the content of the Product Provider 
Acceptance Form/Power of Attorney and the SIPP Dealing Account Transfer Form. And to a 
lesser extent by the SIPP administrators specific reference to Horizon Stockbrokers.
Im not persuaded by the contract note  if anything this supports TS Capitals position that it 
simply executed the transaction on someone elses instructions.
So, for the reasons outlined above, I conclude that TS Capital wasnt responsible for the 
management of Mr Ps investment or for any advice/trades that were made.
Was the management of the investment and the advice/trading etc in line with the mandate 
given?
Given my above conclusion I havent investigated, considered and/or decided this issue. 
Thats because the outcome of the complaint doesnt now hinge on the answer to this 
question  because even if Mr Ps allegation is correct and the advice/management 
breached the mandate, that mandate wasnt between Mr P and TS Capital.
Sundry
Mr P said he required a clear decision as to which business acted as his DFM. Thats not for 
me to decide. My role is simply to consider the merits of the complaint that Mr P brought to 
us against TS Capital. And as outlined above, my conclusion based on the evidence Ive 
seen is that:
Mr P didnt give any authority/mandate to TS Capital for it to act on his behalf as a DFM
TS Capital isnt therefore responsible if any investment advice he received or 
investments made on his behalf breached any mandate.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman