DRN-4236011
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a travel insurance policy attached to their packaged bank account. The 
policy is underwritten by UKI. 
They went on holiday and unfortunately Mr B lost his medication. He begun to feel unwell 
and required medical assistance.  They contacted UKI to make a claim on their policy to 
cover Mr Bs medical expenses. 
The medical report from Mr Bs treatment abroad said he had had been treated for 
hypertension. UKI requested Mr Bs medical history and found he had been diagnosed with 
hypertension in 2013 and been prescribed medications for this condition.
UKI declined cover. They concluded Mr Bs medical situation abroad was related to a pre 
existing medical condition that they werent aware of. And their policy doesnt provide cover 
for any pre-existing medical condition, unless UKI have already been told about the condition 
and theyve agreed to cover it. 
Mr and Mrs B said they told UKI about Mr Bs hypertension during a telephone call, in either 
2015 or 2019. And UKI advised them it wasnt an issue. However, neither party had any 
evidence of this call taking place. 
UKI said due to the time that has elapsed they are unable to locate any calls from so long 
ago. But in any event Mr B should have disclosed his condition every 12 months to ensure 
had had the correct cover in place. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. Initially he thought UKI should reconsider 
the claim to see what impact the misrepresentation had on the policy. Then on further review 
of the case, he changed this position. He said as Mr B hadnt made a medical disclosure 
every policy year, it was fair for UKI to apply the exclusion for pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. In summary they said: 
Since returning home from his trip, Mr B has been diagnosed with anxiety and they 
believe it is this condition that resulted in him needing medical assistance.  
They werent aware of this condition before so couldnt have disclosed it.
They also provided a letter from his GP to support that his episode abroad was due 
to undiagnosed anxiety. 
So the case was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The terms of the policy say Mr B can claim for emergency medical treatment while abroad. 
But claims relating to existing medical conditions arent covered unless UKI have been made 
aware of the condition and agreed to cover it. 
Customers are expected to declare all medical conditions each policy year so UKI has the 
opportunity to consider if they will cover the condition. Mr and Mrs B said they declared Mr 
Bs hypertension condition to UKI during a telephone call, in either 2015 or 2019  before 
another holiday. And UKI advised them it wasnt an issue. But neither party has any 
evidence of this call or a disclosure of a change in health taking place. 
UKI said due to the time that has passed, they are no longer able to locate any calls from 
2015 or 2019. I dont think its unreasonable there isnt any record of a call from that long 
ago. Im also mindful that I wouldve expected UKI to have added a note if Mr B had 
disclosed a diagnosis and that hed been prescribed medication. But there is no record of 
any notes regrading Mr Bs health.  So Im unable to conclude a relevant disclosure took 
place. 
However, even if Mr B had disclosed this condition in 2019, he was still obliged to do so 
again each policy year. Its not unusual for insurers to expect policyholders to keep them 
updated at the point of renewal about all health conditions. This is because an insurers 
underwriting criteria is updated regularly, so their decision on what conditions theyll cover 
may change. 
In this case, its not in dispute that Mr B didnt disclose or discuss his condition with UKI 
before his trip.  So even if there was a disclose in 2019, Mr B still shouldve spoken to UKI at 
his last renewal to discuss his condition and check he still had cover before going abroad.  
As there is no evidence the condition was declared, or that UKI agreed to cover it, I think it 
was fair for UKI to apply the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr and Mrs B have suggested his hypertension wasnt the reason for Mr Bs need for 
medical assistance. But the medical evidence says the reason for his medical visit was chest 
pains. And he was diagnosed with hypertension. So I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely 
on the medical report and conclude the incident abroad was related to his pre-existing 
condition. 
I note the additional evidence Mr and Mrs B have provided in relation to Mr Bs anxiety. But I 
dont think that makes a difference. For the reasons Ive already explained, I think UKI was 
fair to conclude the claim for medical expenses was related to Mr Bs pre-existing condition, 
based on the medical information available to them at the time of claim. 
Taking everything into account, I think in the absence of any evidence of disclosure, UKI was 
fair to apply the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions and declined cover for this 
claim. My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman