DRN-3172942
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Mortgage Lender Limited (TML) unfairly recorded an entry about 
her on a fraud prevention database (CIFAS) in connection with a mortgage application.
What happened
In 2020, Mrs S applied for a mortgage, through a broker, with TML. She sent her documents 
to a third party who then passed them to the broker who made the application. 
TML declined the application and registered a marker with CIFAS. This is a cross-industry 
fraud prevention database which allows financial services providers to share relevant 
information, subject to safeguards.
Mrs S complained. She said that her bank statements were altered without her consent by a 
third party and that she didnt see the documents before they were submitted to TML.
TML rejected the complaint and declined to remove the marker.
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator considered the matter and 
thought that the marker should now be removed.
TML disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a mortgage application is made, a lender will assess it and conduct relevant checks 
against the information provided and use its own lending criteria to help decide whether to 
lend. 
Here, TML said it found that bank statements had been altered and so it decided to enter a 
marker with CIFAS. Having considered the information, I dont think that the decision to enter 
the markers was unreasonable. 
Mrs S has explained that this was her first application and that she trusted the third party to 
apply on her behalf. But regardless of the source of the information, I dont think that TML 
acted unfairly when it decided to apply the marker. And as the application was made in 
Mrs Ss name, it follows that the marker would be registered against her. 
Its not in dispute that the documents provided in the application had been altered. The 
question is whether Mrs S was involved in this. 
When Mrs S complained to TML to ask for the marker to be removed, she explained that she 
sent her documents to a third party who she thought was a broker and that she didnt alter 
the statements. TML further investigated the matter but decided not to remove the marker. 
Ive seen evidence to show that when Mrs S sent them to the third party - they were not 
altered. The broker that made the application has conducted its own investigation - the result 
of which concluded that it did not receive the statements directly from Mrs S, but from the 
third party. 
Having thought carefully about this and reviewed the information provided, I dont think that 
Mrs S was involved in altering documents. I think that Mrs S trusted a third party posing as a 
broker and as this appears to be her first mortgage application, was not familiar with the 
process. Mrs S recalls signing a declaration form but didnt see the documents provided to 
support the application. I find this plausible. 
Ive kept in mind the principles CIFAS sets out for its members, which are publicly available 
on its website. One of the principles sets out the standard of proof for making an entry  
which is that there must be reasonable grounds to believe there has been a fraud or 
attempted fraud, supported by clear relevant and rigorous evidence that could be reported to 
the police. There are various criminal offences that amount to fraud, but a common feature is 
seeking to gain financially through dishonesty. 
I can understand TMLs concerns over the application. But I think given Mrs Ss explanation 
of events and further evidence provided to show that she sent the statements to the third 
party unaltered Im not persuaded, on balance, that its still fair to say that the required 
standard is still met. 
I say this as I dont think the evidence shows that Mrs S herself provided false information. 
And without this, I dont consider there is a reason for the entry to remain in her name.
Ive thought carefully about what both TML and Mrs S have said and in all the circumstances 
I think the fair outcome is for it to now remove the entry it made.
Putting things right
I dont think it was unreasonable at the time of the application for TML to have made the 
entry to CIFAS.
But now that Mrs S has explained the situation and provided evidence which supports her 
account, I dont think I can fairly say that the threshold is still met, so the rationale for the 
entry falls away. 
And I therefore think its fair for TML to remove the entry now.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct The 
Mortgage Lender Limited to remove any fraud prevention database entry it has made about 
Mrs S in connection with this mortgage application. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman