DRN-3790183
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy a claim made under their home insurance policy has been 
declined by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral).
What happened
In June 2022 Mr and Mrs P were abroad. Whilst filling their car with fuel, Mrs Ps handbag 
was stolen from their car. They reported the theft to the Police. 
On return to the UK, they made a claim to Admiral, their home insurance provider, for the 
stolen handbag and contents.
Admiral declined the claim. They said the vehicle was unattended at the time of the theft, 
and the policy only provides cover for theft of contents from unattended vehicles if the items 
are hidden from view in a boot, glove or luggage compartment. Admiral say the handbag 
wasnt, so they declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs P dont agree their vehicle was unattended, so they dont think Admiral has 
acted fairly by declining their claim. 
As Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy, they approached this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt agree the car was unattended at the time of 
loss, so he didnt think Admiral had acted fairly by applying the exclusion and declining the 
claim. He said Admiral should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and add 
8% simple interest.
Admiral didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy with Admiral provides cover for personal possessions away from the 
home. The policy terms also outline:
What is not covered
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft from an unattended motor vehicle 
unless the items are hidden from view in:
the boot
a closed glove compartment, or
a concealed luggage compartment
and all windows are closed, all doors are locked and the boot is locked. We will not 
pay more than £1,000 for any theft from a motor vehicle.
Admiral say Mr and Mrs P left their car unattended at the time of the theft, and as Mrs Ps 
handbag wasnt hidden from view as the policy requires, they declined the claim based on 
the exclusion.
Having taken everything into account, I dont agree with Admirals claim decision here. Ill 
explain why.
At the time of the theft, Mr and Mrs P were at a petrol station. Theyve explained it was a self 
service pay at pump petrol station, so at all times they were with their vehicle, refuelling it, 
and they never left it. They also say there were no other facilities at the petrol station, so 
they had no reason to leave their car either. Mr and Mrs P have also provided images of the 
petrol station which support that - which our investigator also forwarded to Admiral.
Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, Mr and Mrs P didnt leave 
their car when refuelling it and they remained with it. So, I dont think theyve left it 
unattended as Admiral says.
Part of Admirals argument is that it must have been unattended as Mr and Mrs P didnt see 
the theft take place. However, Mr and Mrs P were both on the fuelling side of the vehicle at 
the time of the theft, filling their car up. Theyve also explained that the height of their vehicle 
wouldnt allow them to see over it. They also said that after refuelling it was noticed the 
opposite rear passenger door was lightly closed on the first click, but not fully secured, 
further supporting what may have happened  this information was also sent to Admiral by 
the investigator.
Based on all the information provided, on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ps vehicle was 
unattended at the time of the theft. Consequently, I dont think Admiral has acted fairly or 
reasonably in relying on the above exclusion to decline the claim.
With this in mind, Admiral need to deal with the claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. 8% simple interest should also be added for any cash settlement from date 
of loss to date of settlement.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to:
Deal with the claim in line with remaining policy terms
Add 8% simple interest* to any cash settlement from date of loss to date of 
settlement
*If Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman