DRN-4089476
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited settled a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Mrs and Mr H held a home insurance policy, which is underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Ltd (RSA).
On around 10 January 2022, Mrs and Mr H noticed an escape of water around the front 
steps to their porch. They instructed their own contractor, which Ill call A, to investigate the 
source of the leak and undertake repairs. 
A attended Mrs and Mr Hs property on 12 and 13 January 2022 to detect the leak and 
undertake repairs. A wasnt able to detect the source of the escape of water despite its 
investigations but observed increased water levels within the porch, downstairs toilet and 
entrance hall.
Mrs and Mr H stated that A recommended instructing a second contractor to perform camera 
testing. This took place on 17 January 2022. The second contractor thought there may be an 
issue with a pipe providing services to and from Mrs and Mr Hs home and recommended 
removal of a proportion of the front steps to the property and some driveway paving to 
further investigate the source of the leak.
As a result of the second contractors recommendation, Mrs and Mr H contacted RSA to 
report their claim. They say they contacted RSA during the week of 17 January 2022 but 
RSA says it wasnt contacted until 24 January 2022.
When Mrs and Mr H contacted RSA to notify their claim they requested help with the claim 
process as this wasnt something they were familiar with. RSA said it told Mrs and Mr H it 
would usually appoint its own contractors to undertake work. But as, Mrs and Mr H had 
already done that, prior to registering their claim, RSA said it told them it would review any 
invoices already paid in line with the policy terms. It said it told them that reinstatement or 
repairs that went beyond the repair of the damaged pipe would need to be pre-authorised.
The second contractor returned to Mrs and Mr Hs property on 20 January to undertake the 
recommended work. Mrs and Mr H stated that they paid just under £8500 inclusive of VAT 
for the trace and access work and just over £17700 inclusive of VAT for the reinstatement 
works undertaken by A and the second contractor.
RSA appointed a surveyor, which Ill refer to as B to assist it in managing the claim. B 
attended Mrs and Mr Hs property on 26 January 2022. It took photographs, made 
contemporaneous voice recordings and provided a report on the damage it observed to 
RSA. And it recommended that RSA appoint a loss adjuster to manage the claim.
Mrs and Mr H said that, just after Bs visit to their property, they spoke with RSAs appointed 
loss adjuster who gave authority for them to use A to progress their claim. They say the loss 
adjuster agreed to reimburse the costs theyd already incurred having seen images taken by 
B of the property during its site visit and its report. RSA dispute this. 
When Mrs and Mr H provided RSAs loss adjuster with a copy of invoices theyd received 
from A, which totalled over £26000, it forwarded the invoices to a drainage expert C. It 
asked C for an opinion on the work undertaken and validity of the trace and access claim.
On 17 March 2023, C validated Mrs and Mr Hs trace and access claim and reported its 
opinion on the cost and scope of work undertaken by A to RSA. This report was compiled 
without a site visit and stated that the invoices paid by Mrs and Mr H were grossly excessive 
for the work that had been necessary in the trace and access claim. C recommended RSA 
settle the claim based on what it would have charged to undertake the trace and access and 
repair to the damaged pipe. And it said the settlement figure should be £963.67.
Based on Cs report, RSA offered Mrs and Mr H £963.67 to settle their claim. But they were 
unhappy with the settlement offer and complained to RSA that the amount was unfair and 
disproportionate to the reinstatement works that had been necessary following what was, in 
their view, a complex escape of water. 
On 18 May 2023, RSA issued its final response to Mrs and Mr Hs complaint. It said it wasnt 
upholding the complaint because it thought the settlement offered had been fair and in line 
with the policy terms. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mrs and Mr H were dissatisfied with how RSA was proposing to resolve their complaint. So, 
they referred their complaint to our service. Mrs and Mr H wanted RSA to reimburse the cost 
of the work theyd paid their contractor to undertake. And they told our service theyd spent a 
significant amount of time chasing up and discussing their claim, which had impacted their 
family life. They said theyd also had to rely on credit cards to fund the work. 
Our investigator assessed the evidence provided and empathised with Mrs and Mr H. But 
they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. They thought RSA had acted fairly and 
settled Mrs and Mr Hs claim in line with their policy terms. So, they didnt recommend it take 
any further action. 
RSA accepted our investigators view of this complaint, but Mrs and Mr H didnt agree. So, 
Ive been asked to decide the fairest way to resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mrs and Mr H and RSA that, in 
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
My role is to assess whether I think RSA made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr H unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. I can see all parties have gone to some trouble to 
provide our service with some detailed points about this complaint. Ive read everything 
theyve sent us. But I hope theyll understand if I dont address every comment theyve made 
in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to this complaint.Here theres no dispute that there was an escape of water at Mrs and Mr Hs property. But 
theres disagreement between them, RSA and its agent as to the correct outcome of the 
claim.
Mrs and Mr Hs complaint to RSA is about the offer it made to settle their claim. This offer 
was based on the opinion and calculation C provided. The calculation included trace and 
access costs and the costs of repairing the damaged pipe which caused the escape of 
water. The calculation didnt include the cost of damage to Mrs and Mr Hs property or any 
reinstatement work undertaken by A. 
Mrs and Mr H appear to believe that more work was required to trace and access the leak 
that was acknowledged by C in its quote to RSA. Ive therefore thought about whether the 
settlement offer was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mrs and Mr Hs policy with RSA provides cover for trace and access. This covers the cost of 
finding the source of an escape of water and the policy states:
If its necessary to remove and replace any part of your buildings to find the sources of a 
waterleak from a heating or water system, well pay the cost. The most well pay is the 
trace and access limit shown on your policy schedule.
The policy schedule stipulates that the trace and access limit is £5000 per claim. And the 
policy goes on to explain that the cost of repairing the source of the leak is only covered if 
the damage was caused by damage covered under [the] policy.
As this is one claim, the most that RSA would be obliged to pay under the policy for trace 
and access work would be £5000. Under the trace and access part of Mrs and Mr Hs policy, 
they wouldnt be covered for the cost of reinstatement or repair. This would only be covered 
under the policy if an insurable peril had caused the leak.
In this case, Mrs and Mr H instructed A to attend their property prior to contacting RSA to 
notify it of a claim. I recognise that Mrs and Mr H say theyd used A previously. But Id expect 
them to have contacted RSA at the outset of the claim before instructing their own 
contractor. This would have enabled RSA to explain the claim process fully to Mrs and Mr H 
in terms of cost recovery before any costs were incurred. It could also have appointed its 
own contractors, and this would have meant it could have controlled costs.
Mrs and Mr H say they contacted RSA to report the claim during the week commencing 17 
January 2022. They say this was their earliest opportunity to notify RSA of their claim. But 
Ive listened to the call recording where Mrs and Mr H initially reported their claim. Its dated 
24 January 2022. Im satisfied this date is accurate and this was the first notification of the 
claim.
During Mrs and Mr Hs telephone discussion with RSA on 24 January 2022, they said the 
escape of water had happened 2 weeks earlier. I think, on the balance of probabilities, that 
Mrs and Mr H could have notified RSA earlier of the escape of water.
During the first call, RSAs representative gave clear guidance on the claim process and 
stated its preference would be to appoint its own contractors. But it said that, as Mrs and Mr 
H had already appointed a company, it would consider any invoices presented. RSA didnt 
offer a commitment to pay the costs already incurred and informed Mrs and Mr H in clear 
terms that once the escape of water had been traced the pipe could be repaired but any 
work that went beyond that would have to be approved before being undertaken.Mrs and Mr H have told our service that RSAs loss adjuster authorised them to proceed with 
the reinstatement work and agreed to cover the costs incurred. They say this was during a 
telephone call just after Bs visit  although they cant recall the date or provide a recording 
of the call. RSA disputes what Mrs and Mr H say here. 
In efforts to resolve this dispute, RSA has been asked to provide the recording of the call 
where authority for work was provided. Its told our service that, having checked its business 
records, theres no call where authority was given to Mrs and Mr H to proceed with the works 
undertaken by A. 
RSA has also told our service that the 2 call recordings its shared with us are the only calls 
it has recorded which are relevant to Mrs and Mr Hs claim. Ive listened carefully to each call 
recording and Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr H but theres no mention of authority for A 
to undertake work beyond the repair of the damaged pipe in either recording.
I recognise that Mrs and Mr H may believe the call, where they say authority was provided, 
might not have been disclosed by RSA deliberately to frustrate their claim. But Im satisfied 
our service has made proper efforts to try and obtain all relevant call recordings and that we 
have RSAs complete business file. I havent seen enough to suggest that call recordings are 
being withheld by RSA. 
In assessing what most likely happened here, I think that if RSAs loss adjuster had given 
authority to Mrs and Mr H to proceed with repairs beyond the repair of the damaged pipe, 
thered be a written endorsement in its business records, in addition to a call recording, 
confirming this. 
As, Im satisfied the full business records relating to this claim have been shared with our 
service by RSA, Im afraid that the absence of a record supports RSAs argument that 
authority wasnt given to Mrs and Mr H in this case to instruct A to undertake the repair work 
it invoiced.
In addition, the evidence satisfies me that, by the time that Mrs and Mr H say they spoke 
with the loss adjuster, theyd already instructed A to undertake the work theyre asking RSA 
to reimburse. I say this because thered been several site visits by A to Mrs and Mr Hs 
property by the time B visited their home, extensive excavation work had already been 
undertaken, and they say their discussion with the loss adjuster was afterwards. I think its 
unlikely RSA would have given retrospective authority for work that had already been 
completed  particularly work that went beyond the repair of the damaged pipe. 
Its possible that Mrs and Mr H may have misunderstood what was said to them at the outset 
of the claim. I say this because RSA told Mrs and Mr H it would review any invoices already 
paid in line with the policy terms. I can appreciate how this could have been interpreted as 
an insurer agreeing to reimburse invoices already paid to someone whos unfamiliar with the 
claim process. But its not the same thing. 
In considering whether the trace and access settlement offered to Mrs and Mr Hs is fair and 
reasonable, Ive looked at the terms of their policy to understand how cash settlements are 
dealt with by RSA where work has already been undertaken. 
The policy outlines in clear, unambiguous language:
Where repairs are carried out, the amount well pay will be either:
 the cost of the work if it was carried out by our nominated contractor, or 
 the cost of the work based on the most competitive estimate or tender you got from yournominated contractors.
Well pay whichevers the lower amount. 
So, if RSA offers Mrs and Mr H a cash settlement its entitled to limit its cash settlement to 
the cost it would incur if it were to use its preferred supplier or tradesperson for example. 
And this is the case even if the maximum claim limit for trace and access is £5000 as it is 
here. So, the settlement offered can be less than that maximum claim limit or the cost Mrs 
and Mr H would incur if they were to use company of their choice  as happened here.
The invoices Mrs and Mr H have provided from A are considerably higher than the costs C 
quoted in this case. And this is why theres such a difference between the offer RSA made 
and what Mrs and Mr H would like it to pay. 
In relation to the trace and access work, Mrs and Mr H stated that they paid just under £8500 
inclusive of VAT. Ive seen the leak detection survey report A provided to Mrs and Mr H. So, 
Im aware of the work it undertook in relation to the trace and access part of the claim.
RSA has provided our service with a settlement breakdown, showing why Mrs and Mr H 
were offered £963.67 for their claim. This breakdown shows that, had C investigated the 
source of the leak, it would have charged RSA £337.55 plus VAT. It said this would have 
included an investigation of the leaking water supply pipe and a CCTV survey of the drains 
incorporating the front gully. Ostensibly, Im satisfied that this is in line with the work 
undertaken by A for trace and access.
Mr H stated that they paid just over £17700 inclusive of VAT for the reinstatement works 
undertaken by A and the second contractor. But its clear this went beyond the cost of 
repairing the damaged pipe. The invoices Mrs and Mr H shared dont itemise the work 
undertaken or explain why this work was necessary to detect the leak  as our service, and 
an insurer, would expect to see. The invoices refer, instead, to deposit for job, phase final 
for job and parts and materials with no specific information about the scope of work, why it 
was necessary or the cost of each step of the repair work.
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr H have attempted to obtain more detailed invoices from A and 
its not their fault that hasnt been possible. But in the absence of itemised invoices, its very 
difficult to understand why the work undertaken by A and the second contractor should be 
considered under a trace and access claim and how the costs became so high. 
C, on the other hand, said it would also have charged RSA £465.51 plus VAT for the 
necessary repairs to the damaged pipe. Im satisfied that this valuation has been based on 
images taken by B, its voice recordings and the content of its report. C has confirmed it 
would have charged RSA a total of £963.67 inclusive of VAT for all trace and access related 
works that were required under the claim.
Mrs and Mr H dispute the reliability of Cs estimate. Theyve told our service C didnt attend 
their property before submitting its report to RSA and appear to think this renders its 
valuation and report questionable. But I dont agree; Ill explain why. 
C was instructed after work had been undertaken by A. So, Im not persuaded anything more 
would have been gained in C assessing this claim by it visiting Mrs and Mr Hs home 
address. Prior to calculating the cost breakdown, C had access to As invoices and the 
information B had provided to RSA. Having seen these documents, I think C was able to 
offer a fully informed opinion on the validity of a trace and access claim and its likely cost.Cs view was that the work undertaken and costed by A was grossly excessive. Its opinion 
was that the necessary works should have been limited to the installation of a new gully and 
a bend to connect this back up. And it raised questions over the necessity of rebuilding the 
front step, which it said wasnt part of the drainage repairs.
Mrs and Mr H have argued that rebuilding the front step was necessary work undertake by 
A. They say the step sustained damage as a result of the escape of water because it had to 
be removed to access the leak. But I havent seen enough evidence to persuades me this 
was a necessary part of the claim.
Overall, its difficult to understand how over £26000 was incurred in tracing the escape of 
water and preventing any further damage. Its likely that a large proportion of this cost 
involved reinstatement work, which Ive already explained wasnt authorised by RSA. Given 
the significant cost difference, Im persuaded C, and RSA, acted reasonably in questioning 
why the work undertaken by A was necessary trace and access work.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the work included in Cs calculation is in 
line with the content of Bs report, its voice recordings and the images it took of Mrs and Mr 
Hs property. Im therefore satisfied that the necessary work has been identified in Cs 
settlement calculation for trace and access costings. And Ive no reason to doubt that the 
work stipulated by C in its calculation appropriately reflects what it would have charged RSA 
had it been instructed to undertake the trace and access works and repair of the damaged 
pipe. So, Im not persuaded the settlement offer was unfair or contrary to the policy terms.
I recognise that A charged Mrs and Mr H significantly more than the amount RSA offered to 
settle this claim. But as this appears to largely be reinstatement work, which Mrs and Mr H 
were told would have to be pre-authorised by RSA, I cant fairly conclude it should be 
responsible for As invoices. 
I can see that Mrs and Mr H asked our investigator to assist them in pursuing a complaint 
against A. But, as our investigator explained, A isnt a business that falls under our 
jurisdiction. So, we dont have the power to consider a complaint against A. Our investigator 
has offered some guidance to Mrs and Mr H on how they may be able to pursue any 
concerns they have about A, which I think was useful.
I recognise that RSAs cash settlement offer is frustrating for Mrs and Mr H. But in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied RSA has agreed to pay the cost it would have 
incurred had C traced the escape of water and undertaken the necessary repairs to prevent 
further damage. As its offered to settle their claim in line with the terms of their insurance 
policy, I cant say RSA has done anything wrong in the approach its taken here. 
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, but theres nothing to 
persuade me that RSA has treated them unfairly or unreasonably. And Im not persuaded 
there are any grounds for me to fairly and reasonably require RSA to change the settlement 
offer its made here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Julie MitchellOmbudsman