DRN-1766157
Complaint
Ms F says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Allianz Insurance 
Plc have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to Allianz in 
this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Ms F bought the policy in 1998 to cover a personal reserve. It covered her in case she was 
off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Fs case.
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over two decades ago and the accounts long since closed, so I think its 
understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the sale. But from 
what Ive seen of Allianzs sales process from the time, it wouldve been made clear that the 
PPI was optional, and in order to get the policy Ms F would need to have actively chosen it. 
Ive not seen any wider problems with the sales process from the time, nor any evidence 
which shows that Ms F was misled here. So I think its most likely that Allianz made Ms F 
aware she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  
though I can certainly understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Ms F, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Ms F enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information Allianz gave Ms F about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of Ms Fs circumstances at the time, it looks like she was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. She 
didnt have any other significant protection in place, so the PPI couldve been useful for her 
in case something went wrong. And the PPI was cheaper than comparable policies and had 
a higher benefit. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put 
her off taking it out.
Lastly, Ms F mentioned that weve found many other PPI policies to have been mis-sold, and 
I understand why she raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were 
suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and 
so on. So though some policies were mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that another particular one was too. We look at each case on its own merits, and Ive explained above 
why Ive not found that this particular policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Ms Fs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman