DRN-2436158
The complaint
Mr K complains that TSB Bank plc refused his request to withdraw money from his account. 
He also complains that staff at the TSB branch were rude and TSB have ignored his letters 
of complaint. Mr K wants TSB to apologise and pay compensation.
What happened
Mr K went into a TSB branch in April 2018 to request withdrawal of money. Mr K says he 
asked to withdraw £8,000 but his request was refused. He says staff at the branch wouldnt 
give him a reason and were rude. He says TSB contacted the police and they escorted him 
out of the branch. Mr K says he wrote to TSB to complain and had to chase on several 
occasions to get a response.  
TSB responded to Mr Ks complaint and said the staff at the branch couldnt recall Mr K 
asking for £8,000 from his account. Instead, the staff said Mr K had asked for £24,000 from 
his granddaughters account. TSB said Mr K had previously raised a separate complaint in 
April 2018 in which he had complained about TSB not allowing him to withdraw money from 
his granddaughters account. TSB said this complaint wasnt upheld by our service.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr K. TSB told us that, during Mr Ks visit to the 
branch in April 2018, he had asked to withdraw £24,000 in cash. TSB said the branch 
manager explained he couldnt authorise this amount as they hadnt received any prior 
notice and it wouldve left the branch with insufficient funds to serve other customers 
requests for withdrawals. TSB said they offered £15,000 which Mr K accepted but upon 
receiving this in cash, Mr K asked to withdraw a similar amount from another account. TSB 
said they did offer to order the cash in for him to collect at a later date. TSB explained the 
branch did call the police as Mr K refused to leave the branch.    
Our investigator thought TSB hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably. Mr K disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr K will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
I think its important for me to clarify first that Ive only looked at Mr Ks complaint about his 
request for £8,000 being refused. I havent looked at any issues relating to his request to 
withdraw money from his granddaughters account as this has already been decided by our 
service. 
Ive looked at the customer account notes provided by TSB and this shows Mr K did visit the 
branch in April 2018 but theres no record of him having asked for £8,000. The notes record 
he requested £23,000 and, as mentioned above, this has already been decided by our 
service. One point I will make however is that the information from TSB shows a slight 
discrepancy in relation to the sum requested by Mr K from his granddaughters account. The 
final response says it was £24,000 but TSBs notes say it was £23,000. I think its more likely 
than not the sum was £23,000 because not only do the notes  which are a 
contemporaneous account of the event  record this, but when the £15,000 Mr K received is 
deducted from this, it leaves £8,000. And, that is what I believe relates to Mr Ks complaint. 
Ive looked at TSBs personal banking terms and conditions and this does refer to limits on 
payment amounts. I cant see there is a section which refers specifically to withdrawing cash 
from a branch so Ive looked at whether TSB have acted fairly and reasonably here. I can 
see from the information provided by TSB that Mr K, on receiving £15,000, asked to 
withdraw money from a separate account. TSB refused and theyve told us the reason for 
this was because it wouldve left them in a position where they would have insufficient funds 
to meet other customers requests for withdrawals. I cant see Mr K gave any advance notice 
to TSB about visiting the branch and wanting to withdraw cash. Its understandable that a 
bank will hold a limited amount of money at a branch. So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for TSB to decline Mr Ks request to withdraw further money. And, I can see from notes 
provided by TSB they did offer Mr K the option to order further funds or they could give him a 
bankers draft. The notes say Mr K declined these options. 
I note Mr K says staff at the branch were rude. I understand this event will have been 
frustrating for Mr K and we would expect a bank in such circumstances to help their 
customer. I can see that TSB did give other options but I havent seen any evidence the staff 
at the branch were rude. I do appreciate Mr K has his own account of what happened but for 
me to uphold this part of the complaint I would need to see evidence. And, from the 
information I have seen, I think TSB did try and help Mr K. I have noted Mr Ks comments 
about being escorted out of the branch by the police and the impact this had on him. I can 
only base my decision on the evidence I have seen and TSBs notes set out their reasons for 
calling the police and I cant say theyve acted unreasonably.   
Mr K also complains about TSBs handling of his complaint. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the 
complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. Where 
complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into account 
complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this case, I cant say 
there has been any error by TSB in relation to the issues which relate to regulated activities, 
so I cant look into the complaint handling part of the complaint.     
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman