DRN-4300900
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lendable Ltd is holding him liable for a loan that he says was opened 
fraudulently in his name. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
On 17 June 2022 a £5,000 loan was applied for in Mr Ds name with Lendable, via a third-
party comparison website. Mr D contacted Lendable about a week later informing them he 
didnt apply for the loan. He said hed been scammed by an investment firm, G, and they 
had made the loan application without his knowledge. 
Lendable rejected the fraud claim. They acknowledged Mr D had been the victim of a scam 
but they said Mr D was aware the Lendable payment into his bank account was for a loan in 
his name, and he transferred the money to G to be invested. They said the mobile chat 
messages, between Mr D and G, showed he believed the loan would be repaid using the 
investment profits. Lendable directed Mr D to his bank to try and recover the payments. And, 
to support Mr D, they offered to waive the loan interest and gave the option of a reduced 
payment plan. 
Mr D complained to Lendable but they didnt change their position. In short, they said:
When they received the loan application, their fraud checks were carried out 
successfully and they didnt have any concerns it was fraudulent. 
Upon reviewing the information provided, they concluded Mr D was aware the funds 
were from a loan and that he believed it would be repaid once he received the 
investment profits.
Theyd provided Mr D details of debt help charities and, given the difficult the position 
the scammer had left him in, offered to freeze interest on the loan indefinitely. And 
so, theyd treated Mr D fairly considering the difficult circumstances he was in.
But as a gesture of goodwill, and in full and final settlement of the complaint, they 
were also willing to waive the loan fee and the interest applied prior to it being frozen. 
This meant Mr D would only repay the amount borrowed  with no fees or charges 
repayable. 
Mr D referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our Investigator considered the 
complaint but he didnt think Lendable had to do anything further. This was because he was 
satisfied  from the messages between Mr D and G  that he knowingly took out the loan (as 
well as loans with other lenders too) with the intention of investing the funds. So, while he 
appreciated Mr D had fallen victim to an investment scam and was tricked into sending the 
funds from the loan to G, he didnt think Lendable was acting unfairly by holding Mr G liable 
for the loan. 
Lendable agreed with our Investigator but Mr D didnt, so the matter has been passed to me 
to decide. Mr D has, in short, added:
He provided a timeline of events for the scam  setting out how he came across G on 
a social media website and was contacted by them the next day, with a minimum 
£290 investment amount stated. After this, he later received various credits into his 
bank account of a significant value. G gave several reasons for this, including that 
the money came from their own bank account and also apologising for taking out a 
loan in his name in error (which they assured they would pay back).
Prior to the £5,000 loan being taken out with Lendable, he told G he wanted to stop 
trading and close his account. And when the loan was paid into his account, G told 
him to send the funds to them as this was the procedure to close his account. 
He later realised, after visiting his local bank branch, that G had lied to him and all 
the deposits were from loans taken out in his name without his knowledge or 
consent. At this point, he reported the matter to the police and contacted the loan 
companies. 
His intention was to only invest £290 but G took advantage of him and his 
vulnerability was exploited by them. He was struggling with his health at the time, 
worked in a demanding and stressful environment and received numerous phone 
calls from G at all times of the day  often while at work. 
Everything moved very quickly and he struggled to keep up. G badgered and 
harassed him, and he was made to believe all the money deposited into his bank 
account was from G (not loans). He trusted G to pay the loans back from the money 
in the trading account as they promised but, instead, he found it empty. 
A fake email address was used for the loan application and for the documents to be 
sent to. He had no knowledge the loans, including the one with Lendable, were 
applied for and was simply instructed by G to forward the money as per their 
instructions. 
He didnt click on any of the links sent to him by G  which referred to loans  as he 
was scared it was another ploy to get more money from him. 
This whole ordeal has been distressing, affecting his mental health and led him to 
take time off work due to sickness.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr D has fallen victim to a scam and I want to reassure him that I dont 
underestimate the impact this had on him. Ive given careful consideration to everything hes 
said in support of his complaint. But while I appreciate Mr D feels very strongly about what 
happened, and that he says he didnt take out the loan, Ive reached the same outcome as 
our Investigator and for similar reasons. Ill explain why I think Lendable has acted fairly by 
holding Mr D liable for the loan. 
Ive reviewed the message history between Mr D and G. And this includes Mr D sending the 
following message:
This should have ended over a week ago transfer what is owed and pay off the 
loans you pressured me to take out with the promise you will have paid out and I see 
none of that
Ive noted Mr D says G told him the money credited into his bank came from their own bank 
account as well as a loan they accidently took out in his name. But while I dont doubt G 
gave Mr D false promises, I dont think the above message supports Mr Ds claim he didnt 
apply for the lending himself. I think the message is clear in that Mr D says he was pressured into taking the loan(s) by G. And I think its unlikely Mr D wouldve referred to 
being pressured into taking the loans if, in fact, they were applied for by G  as he claims - 
without his knowledge or consent.
The message history also shows G sent the email address, and what appears to be the 
account password, that was used in the loan application to Mr D. As well as links to the third-
party comparison website used to apply for the loan  with email-loan-journey and loan-
eligibility-check included in the website addresses. This, to me, further suggests Mr D did 
apply for the loans himself, albeit with the direction of G. I see no plausible reason why G 
wouldve shared this information with Mr D otherwise. 
Furthermore, Ive also taken into consideration that Mr D spoke with a different lender 
relating to another loan  for £15,000 - that was applied for at around the same time. And the 
lenders records show the reason Mr D gave for the loan was relating to home improvements 
and not investment purposes. And that there was also a further conversation about the direct 
debit being set up and when Mr D could expect to receive payment before he reported to the 
lender that hed been scammed (whereby he admitted he wasnt honest with the lender 
about the loan purpose). Because of this, I think its most likely Mr D likewise applied for the 
Lendable loan for the purpose of investing the funds with G. 
I realise Mr D was tricked by G into thinking the investment opportunity was genuine and I 
greatly sympathise with his situation. I appreciate this matter has impacted him financially 
but also taken a toll on his health. But, for the above reasons, Im not persuaded the loan 
was applied for fraudulently. Instead, I think its most likely Mr D applied for the loan and 
transferred the funds to G in the hope of paying it off using the investment returns. It follows 
that I think Lendable is acting fairly by holding Mr D liable for the loan. 
Lendable has taken Mr Ds unfortunate circumstances into consideration and offered to write 
off all interest and charges. I think it was reasonable for Lendable to do this. Mr D should 
however contact Lendable directly to arrange repaying the loan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman