DRN-3301630
The complaint
Y a company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its accounts without any warning or 
notice. It would like compensation and costs. Y is represented by Mr S an officer of the 
company.
What happened
Both parties to this complaint are well acquainted with the facts so I dont propose to go 
through the facts in detail. However, a brief summary of the situation is as follows:
Y had accounts with HSBC.
On 14 September Y went to use the account and found it blocked.
Ys account was closed on 20 September 2019.
On 25 March 2019 HSBC say they sent a letter to Y advising that they would shortly 
be carrying out a safeguarding review.
HSBC says at least two other letters were sent to Y about the safeguarding review 
As the information wasnt provided by Y a closure letter was sent on 5 July 2019.
Mr S and the Ys Finance director (FD) attended in branch on 5 August 2019 to 
remove the FD from the banking records and replace with Mr Ss details.
Y says despite this bank statements were still sent to the FD.
Y had to open an account with another bank  Mr S told us this was disruptive and 
involved many hours of extra work. Mr S has calculated Ys losses at £29.500.
HSBC have offered £250 compensation which Y has rejected.
Y complained to our service after what they considered an unsatisfactory response to 
their complaint from HSBC 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and issued a view.
Mr S was unhappy with the view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One of the main issues in this case is in relation to the letters that HSBC sent to Y and that Y 
says they didnt receive. 
Letters to Y
I know Mr S has said that Y didnt receive the letters from HSBC, and he has questioned 
whether these letters even existed because HSBC wasnt able to provide him with copies of 
them when he requested it. 
HSBC have provided us with copies of the letters, and they show that they were addressed 
to the FD at the address provided by Y to the bank.
I have checked contemporaneous contact notes which show the letters were sent and I have 
also checked the addresses on the letters and those held by the bank. I can confirm that the 
address on the letters is the same as the address given to the bank by Y. 
I appreciate that Mr S says that Y didnt receive the letters. The letters werent returned to 
the bank. The bank sent three separate letters, so I find it implausible that all three letters 
were lost in the post. Mr S hasnt provided information regarding any known problems with 
the post-delivery that the FD may have had, and I am of the view that the letters were sent, 
and any issues were not the responsibility of HSBC.
Account review and closure
Ill set out some context for the review of Ys account. UK legislation places extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish the 
purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there may be 
penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These obligations 
override all other obligations. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with these obligations 
when they reviewed Ys accounts. 
Mr S has said he was unhappy that he wasnt given any notice or reason for the block and 
closure of the account.
I can see that in blocking the account the bank was following an internal process which they 
carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations. This was a 
legitimate exercise so I cant say HSBC was unfair. 
Whilst Mr S mayve expected to be given the reasons for the block and closure, HSBC isnt 
required to give him a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say HSBC has 
done anything wrong by not giving Mr S this information  as much as hed like to know.
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
HSBC wrote to Y on 5 July 2019 and let Y know it was closing Ys account giving 60 days 
notice. So, Im satisfied HSBC closed the accounts in line with the account terms. And gave 
Y adequate time to open another bank account.
Visit on 5 August 2019
Mr S and the FD visited the branch in order to remove the FD from the account and to add 
Mr S. Mr S has said that he finds it incredible that HSBC didnt mention the safeguarding 
review or the potential implications of not completing this in time during the meeting. 
I have asked for contact notes for this meeting however these are not available due to the 
passage of time. 
I accept that the Relationship manager didnt mention the review at the meeting. And had he 
mentioned the review Mr S could have set the wheels in motion to complete the review 
before the 20 September deadline and Y may not have had its account closed. However, I cant say that the responsibility lies solely with the bank as letters had been sent 
to Y and the bank had no evidence to suggest that these hadnt been received. So, I can 
also understand why the relationship manager may not have mentioned it. Additionally, 
information about the requirement to complete the review was available via the website. I 
have checked whether Y used online banking during the period from March 2019 to 
September 2019 unfortunately the records are not available, but I know that Y didnt receive 
statements in the post. I therefore think its likely that Y accessed its banking information 
through online banking at some point during that six-month period and would have seen the 
banners requiring action. 
Compensation
HSBC offered £250 in compensation to Y in recognition of the fact that Y had to move its 
account. Mr S rejected the offer and has said that he calculates the losses incurred at 
around £29,500.
As Ive mentioned HSBC were entitled to carry out a safeguarding review and to request Y to 
fill in some documents. I have considered if HSBC did anything to cause Y to not comply 
with the safeguarding review. Taking everything into consideration I cant say that HSBC 
caused Y not to comply with the time frames. And although I appreciate the worry and 
inconvenience that this has caused the officers of Y, I dont think HSBC have done anything 
wrong here. In addition, as the investigator has mentioned the complaint is brought to us by 
a limited company and we are unable to award compensation for worry and upset suffered 
by a limited company. 
Putting things right
I consider the £250 offered by HSBC to be a fair offer to resolve the complaint and whilst I 
appreciate Mr S wont agree I dont think it necessary for me to award any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I uphold the complaint and I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Y £250 in compensation as previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman