DRN-3683615
The complaint
Mr W complains about the amount of time Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options UK) 
took to transfer his pension to a third-party provider. He believes the delays were 
unnecessary and avoidable and he asks to be compensated.
What happened
Mr W held a pension with Options UK which he decided to transfer to a third-party provider, 
Ill call F.
Options UK received the initial transfer request on 7 May 2021.
On 7 September 2021, Options UK contacted F to request further information.
This means that from what I can see there was a period of 4 months where no
progress was made, nor does there appear to have been a reasonable attempt to progress
matters.
What followed was a significant volume of correspondence back and forth between Options 
UK and F where each party seems to have needed either further information or required it 
in a different format i.e. by post rather than e-mail.
Mr W, who started his pension transfer some months earlier, became understandably 
increasingly frustrated as he went backwards and forwards between the two in an attempt to 
find out what was happening. He found each party blaming the other but still there was no 
progress with his transfer, so he complained to Options UK.
On 22 November 2021, Options UK issued its final response and confirmed the transfer had 
finally completed on 8 November 2021. It partially upheld Mr Ws complaint explaining in its 
view, the delays were the responsibility of F but it acknowledged it could have started the 
transfer process sooner and so it offered  £50 as a good will gesture for the initial delay.
Dissatisfied, Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr W. In his view, he said the four months delay in 
starting the transfer were unnecessary and although he didnt identify a financial loss, he 
didnt feel Options UK had recognised the trouble and upset this matter had caused Mr W.
 
He upheld the complaint and recommended Options UK increase the compensation to £300.
Options UK didnt agree. It felt the investigator had held Options UK solely responsible for 
the delays in the pension transfer when it had provided clear evidence to the contrary and as 
a financial loss had not occurred, in its view the £50 offered was fair and reasonable 
compensation.
As it didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr W and Options UK. 
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
I am very aware that there are more than one party involved in the transfer of Mr Ws 
pension scheme, but for clarity I am looking at the role of Options UK and whether it acted 
fairly and reasonably.
I can see from 7 September 2021, there is a very clear communication chain between 
Options UK and F which I think the investigator acknowledged. Whichever party was 
responsible from that point on, I can see that Options UK continually chased up what 
information was needed and how it could or should be provide to F.
But that doesnt explain what happened between 7 May 2021 and 7 September 2021. There 
is a period of four months where Options UK seems to be silent. There is no presented 
communication between Options UK, the financial adviser, F or Mr W at any point during 
this four-month period. 
I have taken not account the treating customers fairly principles and draw Option UKs 
attention to customer outcome three which states consumers should be provided with clear 
information and be kept appropriately informed at all times before, during and after a 
transaction and outcome six which details consumers shouldnt face unreasonable barriers 
to switch providers.
So, although Mr W hasnt suffered a financial loss, I dont think that minimises the worry, 
trouble and upset caused by Options UKs failure to start the transfer process for over four 
months and I dont agree £50 is a fair and reasonable recognition of that delay.
I dont think Options UK has treated Mr W fairly for its part in starting the transfer process 
and Im satisfied the award should be increased. Its fair to say the awards this service 
makes for trouble and upset are relatively modest, again reflecting the fact this is a free 
service and alternative to the courts. But in the circumstances of this complaint Im 
persuaded £300 is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP to:
Pay Mr W £300 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman