DRN-4179356
The complaint
Mr R, on behalf of RE, complains that PayrNet Limited have not refunded a payment he 
made for £2,200. 
What happened
Mr R says that he made a payment on REs account for £2,200, which was to an individual 
to pay for two mobile phones. However, the beneficiary of the funds explained their account 
had been blocked by the receiving bank, so they could not access the funds received.
PayrNets agent, ANNA, explained that Mr R had contacted them on 28 January about the 
payment of £2,200 as the beneficiary had said their account was restricted. On 29 January, 
Mr R said he had concerns that the payment was not legitimate as the beneficiary said their 
account was still blocked. At that point ANNA explained they could not provide support as 
the issue appeared to be with the receiving banks compliance procedures. On 2 February, 
Mr R confirmed he thought the transaction was fraudulent and ANNA began attempting to 
recover the funds. Unfortunately, the receiving bank confirmed none remained to be 
recovered.
Mr R referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They explained 
that the payment itself was not large enough to warrant intervention from ANNA, as 
PayrNets agent, prior to it being processed. And they felt ANNA had acted quickly to try and 
recover the funds, however, none remained. So, they did not recommend a refund in this 
case.
Mr R responded on behalf of RE and queried why the receiving bank would restrict the funds 
and then allow them to be withdrawn. He also felt that PayrNet had not acted when he first 
reported the issue, and it was only when the seller blocked contact from him that they took 
action. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as the Investigator for largely the same 
reasons. I do not direct PayrNet to refund RE and Ill explain why in more detail. 
Ive firstly considered whether or not this is a scam. Ultimately, RE paid for goods that it did 
not receive and was eventually blocked by the seller with no refund. This therefore has the 
characteristics of a scam and Ive treated it as such.
Ive considered whether RE is entitled to a refund under Contingent Reimbursement Code, 
however this is a voluntary scheme that PayrNet is not signed up to. Despite this, PayrNet 
still has a basic duty of care for its customers.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that RE authorised the payment of £2,200 as it believed it was part of 
a legitimate sale. So, while I recognise that RE didnt intend the money to go to scammers, 
the starting position in law is that PayrNet was obliged to follow REs instruction and process 
the payment. Because of this, RE is not automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether PayrNet did enough 
to try to keep REs account safe.
In my opinion, the payment in question just wasnt sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or 
suspicious to reasonably say PayrNet should not have processed it without first getting in 
touch with RE to ensure it was legitimate and not related to a scam. The value of the 
transaction was not particularly high and when compared with REs normal account activity, 
it does not stand out as unusual. 
Ive considered whether or not PayrNet could have done more to recover the funds once RE 
made them aware of the issue. Mr R, on behalf of RE, has said they only took action when 
the seller blocked him, and not before. From what both Mr R and PayrNet have said, I think 
there was initially some confusion over whether or not RE had been the victim of a scam, or 
if the seller was having issues with their account being blocked. Because of this, PayrNet did 
not request a return of the funds until Mr R expressed he felt the payment was fraudulent 
because the seller had blocked contact. 
With this in mind, I think it was reasonable that PayrNet tried to recall the funds when it did. 
Unfortunately, the receiving bank confirmed no funds remained once a request was made, 
so there was nothing further they could do to help RE. 
Mr R has also queried why the receiving bank would restrict the funds and then allow them 
to be withdrawn. However, this complaint is against PayrNet, so I can only consider their 
actions in relation to the transaction. Having done so, I dont think they could have done 
more to either reveal the scam or retrieve the funds RE lost. So, I dont think it needs to take 
any action to remedy this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold REs complaint against PayrNet Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman