DRN-3521687
The complaint
Ms R complains that New Day Ltd trading as Marbles Classic unfairly recorded her account 
as in default and sold it to a third party when she experienced a period of financial difficulty.
What happened
Ms R had a credit card with Marbles. In 2019, she experienced some financial difficulty. She 
contacted Marble and it agreed a payment plan. In January 2020, Ms R told Marbles that 
she was going on maternity leave and  that she would need to extend the reduced payment 
arrangement. She said that Marbles assured her that would not be a problem and the 
arrangement could be extended for a further year.
Ms R later received notice that Marbles had recorded a default and passed her debt to a 
third party. She considers it unfair that Marbles had gone back on its word. She thinks that it 
should remove the default.
On review, the investigator said that Marbles should have recorded a default  on 24 August 
2019. She considered that it should backdate the default to 24 August 2019 and pay Ms R 
£150 for any distress and inconvenience.
Marbles didnt accept what the investigator said. It made a number of points, including:
Its policy was that it did not record a default until an account is 180 days in arrears. The 
letter issued in August 2019 said that if a payment wasnt made the account would be 
terminated, not defaulted.
On 24 August 2019, the arrears were not at a stage of being in default. Although Ms R 
had a payment plan of £1 a month and she said she didnt have any disposable income, 
she was actually making payments of more than £1 a month. It would therefore have 
taken longer to reach 180 days arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Commissioners office (ICO) produced a document Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies (the 
principles). Ive taken the principles into account in deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R didnt make a payment to her Marbles credit card in May 2019. In June, she paid the 
amount due, but did not clear all of the arrears. The account was over its limit. In July Ms R 
paid £41.81 against £198 due. 
On 3 August 2019, Marbles sent Ms R a default notice. It said she needed to pay £156.19 by 
24 August 2019. Marbles hasnt provided an explanation why it sent such a notice if it didnt 
consider that Ms R was actually in default. 
On 12 August 2019, Marbles agreed a payment arrangement where Miss R would pay £1 a 
month. The income and expenditure shows that her expenditure was considerably more than 
her income. There was no suggestion that there would be an improvement in Ms Rs 
circumstances. Marbles agreed to waive any interest and charges while the payment 
arrangement was in place. 
It seems clear to me that Ms R could not afford to pay her credit card. Based on what 
Marbles were told, there was nothing to suggest that she could get things back on track. It 
had already sent her a default notice  and on 28 August 2019 wrote to say that it had 
terminated her agreement. On the face of it, it appeared that the account was in default at 
that point  it was over limit and in arrears for three months (May, June, July 2019). 
Marbles said that it would only record a default when the account reached 180 days in 
arrears. That may well be a reasonable indicator of whether and account has defaulted in 
many cases. But I dont consider it was reasonable to apply that policy in the individual 
circumstances of this case.
Marbles position is that by entering into the arrangement  and sometimes making payments 
that were higher than the token amount agreed  the account would effectively tick over until 
it was 180 days in arrears, at which point it would record a default and sell the debt. But I 
cant see that was ever properly explained to Ms R. And the position in August 2019 was the 
same as it was in January 2020, when the default was eventually recorded. So I agree with 
the investigator that it would be fair to backdate the default to 24 August 2019.
Ms R has clearly been caused distress and inconvenience by what happened. I cant see 
that Marbles set out in a clear and fair way what would happen. And it has accepted that it 
didnt set out clearly what would happen when it agreed to extend the payment holiday. I 
agree with the investigator that £150 is a fair amount to reflect any distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms R by this matter.My final decision
My final decision is that New Day Ltd should:
Record the default on Ms Rs account from 24 August 2019.
Pay Ms R £150 for any distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman