DRN-2708351
The complaint
Miss P complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has handled a claim she 
made on her group private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
In November 2019, Miss P underwent physiotherapy treatment and claimed for the costs 
under her group private medical insurance policy. AXA incorrectly turned down her claim and 
Miss P paid the physiotherapy costs herself.
However, Miss P also received a letter from AXA which said that itd cover treatment under 
her claim until 27 March 2020. So she got in touch with AXA. It confirmed that cover was in 
place and agreed to reimburse Miss P for the treatments shed already paid for. It told Miss 
P that it would need to refund her costs by cheque, as it wasnt able to pay by bank transfer. 
Miss P was unhappy with AXAs position, as she said she didnt live near a bank so it would 
be difficult to deposit a cheque. She made a complaint to AXA.
AXA agreed to reimburse Miss Ps costs by bank transfer, although it maintained that its 
normal process was to refund expenses by cheque.  It also offered her £50 compensation 
for the service shed received, which it sent by cheque. Miss P provided her bank details in 
July 2020 and the amounts she paid were refunded to her at this point.
Miss P remained unhappy with the way AXA had handled her claim and she asked us to 
look into her complaint. She said shed continued to receive invoices from the treating 
hospital, even though AXA had said her treatment was covered. She didnt think it was 
reasonable for AXA to refund expenses by cheque, rather than bank transfer. She wanted 
AXA to pay interest on her costs, together with £20 for her phone costs and £500 
compensation to recognise the service shed received.
Our investigator didnt think the policy terms and conditions specified how AXA should settle 
claims. So she felt it had been reasonable for AXA to initially say it would refund Miss Ps 
expenses by cheque. But she didnt think AXA had handled Miss Ps claim fairly. She noted 
that AXA had told Miss P in March 2020 that someone would be in touch to get her bank 
details. However, this hadnt happened and AXA didnt ask for this information until late May 
2020. So she didnt think AXA had handled Miss Ps claim in a timely way and she felt it 
would be reasonable for AXA to pay Miss P an additional £50 compensation on top of the 
£50 itd already offered, to recognise the impact its service had had on her.
AXA agreed to the investigators recommendations.
Miss P disagreed. She said it hadnt been the first time shed wrongly been told a claim 
wouldnt be covered. Shed paid for the two treatments online, so it was only fair that she 
shouldve been refunded in the same way. The compensation AXA had agreed to didnt 
cover her stress, time, phone calls and interest. She said she hadnt banked AXAs original 
compensatory cheque. And she said shed learned that since February 2021, AXA had 
issued refunds by bank transfer.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided AXA must pay Miss P total compensation of £100. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive carefully considered, amongst other things, the circumstances of Miss Ps claim and the 
policy terms to decide whether AXA treated her fairly.
AXA acknowledges that in November 2019 (and up until late February 2020), it wrongly told 
Miss P that her physiotherapy costs werent covered and shed need to pay for treatment 
herself. So Miss P paid for two treatments personally. Its unfortunate that AXA made such 
an error and I dont doubt how frustrating this mustve been for Miss P. So I think it was 
entirely appropriate for AXA to reimburse the costs shed paid out once it discovered its 
error.
Ive considered how the policy terms say AXA will settle claims, as these form the basis of 
her contract with AXA. The policy says:
What happens if Ive paid the bills myself already or if I receive a bill?
If you paid your medical bills yourself and your treatment is covered, we will refund you the 
rates we have agreed with the hospital or centre, minus any excess. Please send the original 
receipts from the specialist or hospital.
Miss P feels strongly that her costs shouldve been refunded by bank transfer on provision of 
her proof of payment. The policy terms dont specify though how AXA will reimburse a 
policyholders costs, so AXA wasnt bound to pay by a bank transfer. It seems that at that 
point, its process was to reimburse costs by cheque. I appreciate Miss P says she lives 
several miles from a bank and that depositing a cheque wouldve cost her considerable time 
and trouble. But I dont think I could fairly find that AXA did anything wrong by initially telling 
her that her expenses would be refunded by a cheque payment.
However, following Miss Ps complaint, AXA agreed to issue payment by a bank transfer, in 
view of the circumstances. I think this was a reasonable and appropriate action for AXA to 
take. Its unfortunate though that despite AXA telling Miss P in March 2020 that someone 
would be in touch to obtain her bank details so this payment could be arranged, this wasnt 
actually done until 25 May 2020. It seems to me that this wouldve caused Miss P additional 
inconvenience, time and frustration.
Miss P has told us that she continued to receive invoices from the treating hospital even 
after AXA had agreed to cover her claim. I dont think I could fairly hold AXA responsible for 
the actions of the hospital though. I can see AXA got in touch with the hospital to pay the 
remaining invoices, so I think it put the hospital on notice that it was covering Miss Ps 
expenses.
I also dont think AXA was responsible for all of the delays in the processing of Miss Ps 
refund. I say that because while there was a delay of around two months between AXA 
agreeing to pay the expenses by bank transfer and it asking Miss P for her bank details, I 
can see from AXAs records that Miss P didnt provide AXA with this information until 18 July 2020  nearly a further two months on. 
Its clear Miss P is unhappy because she says that since February 2021, AXA has issued 
refunds by bank transfer. However, my role isnt to tell financial businesses how to operate 
or to require them to change their procedures. So even if AXA has now changed the way it 
issues refunds, Im not persuaded this means that it was bound to previously, or that it did 
anything wrong prior to any procedural change which may have taken place.
Overall, I agree with the investigator that AXAs handling of Miss Ps claim has caused her 
some additional distress and inconvenience and I agree that it should pay her compensation 
to recognise the impact its had on her. With that said, our compensation awards arent 
intended to fine or punish the businesses we cover. Having considered everything, I think a 
total award of £100 (inclusive of the £50 AXA has already paid) is a fair amount to recognise 
the stress Miss P was caused, her time, calls, interest on the refund and her upset. Miss P 
says she didnt cash AXAs cheque and so its likely this has now expired. If this is the case, 
AXA should reissue payment for the full amount of £100.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Miss P £100 compensation (less £50 its already 
paid her if this amount has been cashed).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman