DRN-3848541
The complaint
Mr S complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited, has rejected the claim he made under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call C).
What happened
On 3 November 2015, Mr S purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at 
his home. Mr S partly financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook that was repayable over ten years. He repaid the loan early in May 2017.
On 22 November 2021, Mr S made a claim to Shawbrook citing section 75 of the Act. Mr S 
said that C had made a number of representations about the system that had turned out not 
to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr S to enter into the 
contract.
Mr S said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be entirely self-funded via Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments  that 
is that the FIT payments would cover the loan repayments. 
Mr S also said that:
He was not given sufficient time to read through the paperwork nor was he shown or 
told about the terms and conditions.
The FIT payments were not as high as the sales agent insisted and failed to cover 
the loan repayments.
C is no longer trading which means the system is no longer covered by a warranty.
Shawbrook  issued a response and explained that it felt the claim had been made too late 
due to the Limitation act. Mr S didnt receive this response and referred a complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. We notified Shawbrook of the complaint. Shawbrook did not 
issue a final response letter in the time allowed. So, one of our adjudicators looked into what 
had happened 
Our adjudicator said that:
The section 75 claim had been made out of time since it was made more than six 
years after the alleged misrepresentation took place. 
The complaint could be looked at under section 140 of the Act which deals with unfair 
relationships. 
There was no misrepresentation on the part of C and no reason to say the 
relationship between Shawbrook and Mr S was unfair on him.
Mr S didnt agree with this, so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 140 of the Act. Section 56 says 
that any negotiations between Mr S and the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by 
C as an agent of Shawbrook. Section 140 gives the courts power to determine whether the 
relationship between a creditor (Shawbrook) and debtor (Mr S) was unfair to the debtor. In 
doing so the court can look at any linked agreement, in this case the contract between C and 
Mr S. 
Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, section 140 applies to this 
transaction. So, I think it is appropriate to consider whether there was any misrepresentation 
and if a court may think this made the relationship between Shawbrook and Mr S unfair on 
him. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both Mr S and Shawbrook . These 
include the credit agreement and sales contract.
The sales contract sets out key information about the system, the expected performance, 
financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it formed a central part of the 
sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed during the sales meeting) 
and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Ss recollection of the sale, when considering if there 
have been any misrepresentation. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged , the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments. Sales contract
The sales contract set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year benefits 
of the system as follows:
I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £6,995. At the same meeting 
Mr S took out a loan with Shawbrook to pay £3,745 of this on his behalf, with Mr S repaying 
this through 120 monthly repayments of £48.40. So, I think he understood that the total 
amount he would pay for the system would be £9,065.20 if the loan ran to its full term. And 
that hed be paying £48.40 per month.
I think it is also clear that the FIT payments he would receive were £220.96 and £42.97 in 
the first year. That is a total of £263.93. 
The cost of the system and its first-year FIT payments are shown close to each other on the 
sales contract, on the same page where Mr S signed. I think it is likely that these figures 
would have been discussed. 
I think it is clear from this that the FIT payments would not cover the loan repayments in the 
first year. The loan repayments were £48.40 per month, which totals £580.80 per year. This 
is much more than the estimated FIT payments in year one, which was only £263.93. 
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mr S has alleged.
Mr S says he was not given sufficient time to read through the paperwork and he wasnt 
shown or told about the terms and conditions. But I can see he was provided with the sales 
contract, which he signed. Mr S has not specified any particular term or condition that he has 
an issue with. And I have no reason to think the terms and conditions of the contract made 
his relationship with Shawbrook unfair on him.
Mr S says the FIT payments were not as high as the sales agent insisted and failed to cover 
the loan repayments. However, Ive found that it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve 
told Mr S that the FIT payments would cover the loan repayments. 
Mr S says C is no longer trading which means the system is no longer covered by a 
warranty. However, the warranty certificate Mr S has provided appears to show it is provided 
by an industry body, which may still provide cover. He should refer to the warranty terms and 
conditions or contact the industry body if he needs to make a claim. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided, Im satisfied that there were no untrue 
statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr S to enter into the contract for the 
system. Because I dont think there was a misrepresentation, this could not have made the 
relationship between Shawbrook and Mr S unfair on him. And I have found no other reason 
to say the relationship was unfair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman