DRN-4235577
The complaint
Mr H complains about the delays caused by WPS ADVISORY Ltd when it was advising him 
about a transfer of his benefits out of a defined benefit occupational pension scheme. He 
says the delays caused him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent both parties her 
assessment of the complaint on 3 July 2023. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint were set out in her assessment. However to recap, in late 2021 Mr H was 
considering his retirement provision and contacted three different financial advisers for 
information and advice. He initially engaged with a firm of advisers that requested a Cash 
Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) from the occupational pension schemes (OPS) 
administrators. This was sent to Mr H on 18 January 2022. The CETV figure was £283,705 
and was valid for three months until 18 April 2022.
Mr H said the figure was higher than he was expecting, and hes explained that he was 
therefore keen to proceed to transfer out of the OPS. Mr H saw from the CETV information 
provided that WPS ADVISORY Ltd (WPS) had been appointed by the OPS Trustees to 
provide advice to members and this would be at no charge or very low cost. Mr H decided to 
proceed with WPS as his advisers to advise on and facilitate the transfer out.
Mr H contacted WPS and it sent him an introduction letter on 21 January 2022. An 
appointment pack was sent to him on 26 January 2022 with an initial appointment date of 21 
March 2022. 
At this stage WPS wasnt aware that a guaranteed CETV had been sent to Mr H. So at the 
time of the initial appointment WPS was relying on an estimated transfer figure it had 
obtained from the OPS administrators (£291,044). WPS explained to Mr H in the initial 
appointment that it would need to request a guaranteed transfer value, which it did straight 
after the appointment.
Mr H got in touch with WPS on 6 April 2022 to say hed received a letter from the OPS 
administrators. The letter explained that as hed already received his one free CETV for the 
year, if he wanted another it would need to be paid for. Mr H asked WPS if he should pay for 
a new quote or if it would be possible to work towards the existing CETV deadline of 18 April 
2022.
The adviser responded to say a new guaranteed transfer value would be needed to proceed. 
He explained there was still a large amount to get through and therefore it wasnt possible to 
complete the process by the 18 April 2022 deadline.
Mr H e-mailed the adviser on 20 April 2022 to say that hed received a new CETV and
it was around £29,000 less than the previous one. He asked the adviser what the next steps
would be. The new CETV figure was £254,539. The adviser responded on the same day to 
ask Mr H to send him a copy of the new CETV and an appointment was arranged for 4 May 
2022. During this appointment the adviser explained his recommendation was for Mr H to
transfer out of the scheme and this was based on the new, re-calculated CETV.
Mr H expressed his unhappiness with the lower CETV. WPS agreed to contact the
OPS administrators to see if they would honour the original higher CETV. They did
this on 6 May 2022. The OPS administrators responded on 13 May 2022 saying the 
extension requested hadnt been granted. 
A suitability report was issued to Mr H on 27 May 2022. The report referred to the estimated 
transfer value of £291,044. This caused Mr H to believe that WPS had been successful in 
getting the OPS to honour the previous, higher CETV which had been issued in January 
2022.
Mr H completed the relevant documentation for the transfer and this was received
back by WPS on 13 June 2022. WPS contacted Mr H on 16 June 2022 to confirm it had
been received. It was then submitted for processing on 22 June 2022. The funds were 
released and transferred on 19 July 2022.
Mr H then realised WPS had not been successful in asking the OPS administrators to
honour the higher CETV value and e-mailed the adviser about it. The adviser called           
Mr H on 26 July 2022 to discuss the matter. He explained that the lower figure didnt
impact on his recommendation to transfer out, and he apologised for the figure of £291,044 
being used in the suitability report.
Mr H then complained to WPS. WPS responded to the complaint and sent its final response 
letter to Mr H dated 8 September 2022. Mr H was unhappy with its response and referred 
the matter to us. 
Our investigator noted Mr H had expressed concerns about the length of time it took to get 
an initial appointment and considered WPS should have known a CETV had been issued 
and therefore of the urgency of the matter.
However the investigator said it was clear from the evidence available that WPS didnt 
initially know about the CETV that had been requested in January 2022. She said WPS was 
only engaged by Mr H after the original CETV had been sent. So WPS hadnt been sent any 
correspondence about it or made aware of the original CETV. Although WPS were used by 
the OPS administrators to provide advice, WPS wouldnt have been sent a copy of all 
requests for a CETV by scheme members.
The investigator said the January CETV was only sent to Mr H directly. She said the only 
way WPS could have known about it or the associated deadline was if Mr H had told WPS 
about it, but this hadnt happened. The investigator said she appreciated that as a layperson 
Mr H wouldnt necessarily have known the impact not telling WPS about the existing CETV 
would have. But she said that didnt mean she could hold WPS responsible for not taking 
action about something it wasnt aware of. 
The investigator said shed reviewed the period from April to July 2022 to see if there had 
been any avoidable delays. However she thought WPS had completed its part of the 
process in a timely manner. She said it was important to bear in mind that there were other 
parties involved, but that she couldnt comment on their actions as the complaint we were 
considering was against WPS.
Overall, the investigator didnt think WPS had caused any avoidable delays to the transfer 
process as a whole, or that it was WPS fault that Mr H had lost out on the higher CETV 
value.The investigator noted that WPS had made a mistake in the figure it had used in its 
suitability report. It had used the transfer value it had originally obtained rather than the 
second CETV that was lower. Mr H had said this figure was also referred to in the supporting 
documentation provided with the suitability report. The investigator said this had caused      
Mr H to be under the impression WPS had been successful in requesting an extension to the 
CETV deadline with the OPS administrators and had secured the higher value.
The investigator thought using the estimated figure without any explanation or context
was unclear and misleading. And she thought it would have been reasonable for WPS to 
have let Mr H know that the OPS administrators hadnt agreed to an extension. 
The investigator said she was mindful of WPS responsibilities as an FCA (Financial Conduct 
Authority) regulated firm; to be clear, fair and not misleading in its communications. She 
didnt think WPS had met these obligations in using the estimated figure. 
The investigator noted that Mr H had commented that had a contract and it was legally 
binding. The investigator explained that Our Service wasnt a court and we couldnt 
determine the legal basis of the contract. She said what we could do was look at whether a 
business had made a mistake and, if so, award compensation (where appropriate) to put 
things right.
The investigator said the mistake didnt mean she could reasonably ask WPS to cover the 
CETV shortfall  ultimately it wasnt a figure Mr H was entitled to. She said we looked to try 
and put a consumer back into the position that they would have been in had no error 
occurred. And ultimately, Mr H was already in that position.
However, the investigator said it was clear that Mr H had experienced a loss of expectation 
and some upset as a result of WPS mistake using the incorrect figure in the report. So she 
thought WPS should pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators assessment. He said, in summary, that he had 
followed the due process as advised in the original CETV document. He said he acted 
very promptly at all stages in order to not cause delay. He said he expected the timescales 
to be up to eight weeks as per the document. And at that stage he had allowed in order of 
twelve weeks as he had just received the CETV quote. So he was well within the indicated 
six to eight weeks, and there was no obvious reason for him to contact WPS in advance of 
the initial appointment to advise it that he had received a CETV already. He said there was 
no indication that WPS would significantly exceed the six to eight weeks; a timescale which 
WPS should have been familiar. He said WPS should have treated it as a firm target since 
that was the expectation of the OPS administrators who appointed WPS and paid it
for their services.
Mr H said he did everything that was expected of him and followed due process promptly 
and accurately. He said WPS didnt meet the expected timescale that was presented to him.
He said in a telephone conversation with WPS it was explained to him that the delay in his 
initial appointment was influenced by issues due to Covid19  albeit he wasnt sure if the 
issues were staffing, technical or other.
The investigator responded to say that the six-to-eight-week timeframe was only indicative 
and was intended to give customers an indication of how long the process could take. She 
said the CETV document wasnt specific to WPS. And the same document also explained 
there were other parts to the transfer process which would take more time.
The investigator said the date Mr H was given for his initial appointment was 21 March 2022 
(which he was informed of in January). So this only left about four weeks before the original CETV expired, and less than the six to eight weeks Mr H had said he thought it would take. 
Mr H responded to say that he still didnt agree with the investigators findings. In brief, he 
said given the particular relationship between the OPS and WPS here, the OPSs 
administrators would have set timescale expectations with a knowledge of how long it should 
take WPS. The CETV document clearly said you should allow 6-8 weeks and didnt say it 
was a rough idea. Mr H said WPS took 24 weeks from the start of the process (the point at 
which he engaged it to get to the point where the paperwork was completed and the CETV 
secured). It was actually only two weeks away from the second CETV expiring. Mr H said he 
didnt accept that the 24-week duration was reasonable. He said in his opinion WPS hadnt 
performed in a timely manner due to internal issues, possibly Covid related, and this caused 
him a financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons.
The original CETV said that the OPS administrators had received a request for a CETV from 
Mr Hs financial adviser. And named one of the firms Mr H had been liaising with prior to him 
engaging WPS. So I dont think the wording in the original CETV document was used in the 
context of the OPS relationship with WPS. 
Ive seen similar wording and timescales referred to in other CETVs issued by a number of 
different schemes. As the investigator said, the wording is to give an overview of the process 
and an indication of the timescales that could be involved. But these timescales arent 
binding. As well as the OPS and the advising firm there are other parties involved  for 
example the new pension provider and the client themselves. The OPS and advising firm 
cant provide guarantees to the timeliness of the other parties. Whilst I appreciate that wasnt 
an issue here and Mr H himself acted in a timely manner, the point is I dont think those 
timescales can be binding on the advising firm given its not in control of all the process.
The first meeting with Mr H didnt take place until 21 March 2022. So the CETV deadline was 
only around four weeks away on 18 April 2022. As explained in the CETV document, 
receiving financial advice could typically take six to eight weeks. But then there were also 
other administrative parts to the process which took time. So it was always unlikely there 
would be enough time to do all that was required to meet that original CETV deadline. 
As the investigator explained, the evidence available doesnt suggest that WPS was aware 
that Mr H had already been sent a CETV. And, therefore, that time was running on it.  Like 
the investigator, I accept that Mr H may not have realised the significance of this. But I also 
dont think its reasonable to conclude that WPS should have been aware of the urgency of 
arranging that initial appointment earlier or that this was a failure on WPS part which caused 
the loss of the original CETV.
Mr H has referred to the contractual position. WPS were engaged to provide financial 
services  to advise on and subject to that advice help arrange the transfer. The transfer 
value itself was payable from the OPS Trustees to the receiving scheme  Mr H hadnt 
contracted with WPS for it to pay the transfer value. For the reasons set out above and by 
the investigator, I dont think WPS was responsible for delays that resulted in the original 
CETV deadline being missed  in effect I dont think it failed to meet its obligations in terms 
of arranging. WPS did, however, use the incorrect figure in its suitability report advising Mr H to transfer. 
So it misrepresented the position, and it could have caused Mr H to transfer when he would 
otherwise have remained in his original scheme. WPS has said that the lower transfer value 
didnt change its advice which was still to transfer, and was discussed in its meeting with Mr 
H on 4 May 2022. Mr Hs e-mail to WPS on that same day said:
. Im happy with the proposed transfer to the [name of pension provider]. Id just
like to wait first for a decision by [the OPS] on the transfer amount.
The second lower CETV was sent to Mr H, and e-mail correspondence between Mr H and 
WPS shows he was aware that it was lower.  I recognise that Mr H may have understood the 
OPS had agreed to the higher value given the content of the suitability report. And I 
appreciate he would clearly have been disappointed on finding out the actual amount 
transferred was the lower value. However the evidence suggests that Mr H was still 
intending to transfer even in the context of the lower transfer value. And Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence that Mr H would have decided to stay with the original scheme if the 
suitability report had been based on the lower figure. 
Like the investigator, I think Mr H would have suffered a loss of expectation for the period he 
understood he was obtaining the higher transfer value. And that WPS should pay him 
compensation for the distress reasonably caused by its error. 
My final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons outlined above and by the investigator, my final decision is that 
WPS ADVISORY Ltd should pay Mr H £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman