DRN-4432794
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr S have complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined their 
claim.
What happened
Mrs D and Mr S have a travel insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. 
They went on a cruise for 15 days but unfortunately contracted Covid-19 and were instructed 
to stay in their cabin for 10 days. 
They made a claim but UKI declined it on the basis that they hadnt bought additional cruise 
cover which would pay a benefit for cabin confinement of £150 per person per day. However 
it offered £200 compensation for the incorrect information it provided and the loss of 
expectation. 
Unhappy, Mrs D and Mr S referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought the complaint should be upheld. She 
said UKI should treat the claim as covered under the curtailment section as they had 
effectively curtailed their trip whilst they were isolating. And she recommended it pay 
interest. 
UKI disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
The curtailment section is for unused accommodation and being forced to remain in 
accommodation cannot be construed as it being unused. 
Confinement to cabin benefit was available by way of optional cruise extension which 
Mrs D and Mr S decided not to buy. 
Theirs is fundamentally a claim for loss of enjoyment which isnt covered under the 
policy  there is no financial loss attached which is why cabin cover would have been 
the appropriate benefit had the extension been bought. 
Covering this event under any remaining sections of the policy goes beyond the 
specific terms of cover and it isnt reasonable to apply effective curtailment. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I issued my provisional decision on 12 October 2023 in which I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The cutting short your trip section of the policy says: We will pay up to £5,000 for 
each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you have to cut your trip 
short. 
UKI say as cruise cover wasnt added as extra cover, there is no cover under the 
policy and the curtailment section doesnt apply. I agree that the optional cruise cover 
wasnt purchased and so this section doesnt apply  which would have paid a daily 
benefit of £150 per person. 
The optional cruise cover has a benefit for cabin confinement due to illness as 
advised by the doctor. This is a very specific benefit. Had they purchased it, they 
would have been covered. 
Curtailment cover only applies if the trip is cut short and the trip has to start and end 
in the UK. Mrs D and Mr S didnt cut their trip short as they were confined to their 
cabin for 10 days out of 15. However our investigator thought the trip was effectively 
curtailed as they were in their cabin for 10 days with only one day with use of the ship 
facilities. But I disagree. They had a total of 15 days of which 10 were in isolation and 
so they had 4-5 days use of the ship. 
In any event, as there was specific cruise cover to purchase with cabin confinement 
benefit, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to treat 
this case as covered under the curtailment section. The cruise cover would have 
provided a benefit in Mrs D and Mr S exact scenario so it isnt fair or reasonable to 
treat the claim as covered under the curtailment section. They didnt effectively curtail 
their trip, they were confined to their cabin for 10 out of 15 days due to illness. 
UKI paid Mrs D and Mr S £200 compensation for not declining the claim promptly 
and providing incorrect information which suggested a benefit would be due. As this 
was a mistake, I think £200 compensation is appropriate taking into account the 
length of time UKI took to provide the correct claim decision.
Mrs D and Mr S responded to my provisional decision and I thank them for their comments. I 
will summarise what they have said. 
Mrs D and Mr S say they were misled in two telephone conversations when they 
were asked how much they would settle for.
They now realise that they would have been covered for cabin confinement had they 
taken the cruise cover but this wasnt pointed out properly when they asked if they 
were covered for a cruise. 
The £200 compensation was put into their account without a proper explanation. It 
was for the long wait for the claim decision and so they think they should also be 
given compensation for being misled. They should have been made aware that they 
werent covered for cabin confinement. 
They booked a second cruise thinking they were covered. 
I have listened to Mr S call with UKI when he first called to enquire about cruises and Covid-19 cover. The adviser confirmed cruises and Covid-19 were covered. And she also 
specifically said there was an optional extra for cruises which would cover things like cabin 
confinement. Mr S said he didnt think he would need this. So I am satisfied that Mr S was 
given clear information about cabin confinement cover when he enquired about cover for 
cruises. 
Taking everything into account, I am satisfied £200 compensation is appropriate on the basis 
that the correct cover was discussed in Mr S first call before he travelled.
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs D and Mr S but I hope my explanation is helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman