DRN-2392580
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with his home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) because it has declined 
his claim for storm damage to his roof, as well as for internal damage.
What happened
On 30 June 2019 Mr S noticed that the ceiling of a bedroom, used by his mother both to 
sleep in and as a daytime retreat, had water coming through it. Mr Ss mother later described 
that she first noticed on 30 June that a water mark had appeared on the ceiling. 
It was August 2019 when Mr S contacted UKI. He told it the bathroom and bedroom ceilings 
were affected, with the window reveal in the bedroom suffering too. Mr S reports, and UKI 
seems to note, that UKI sent a representative to the property in September or October 2019. 
The representative (W) seems to have taken some video/photographic footage, but couldnt 
view the roof due to its height. W didnt report that any internal damage looked to be 
longstanding.
Mr S was asked to obtain a quote for repair and a cause of damage report. Mr S had a 
roofer complete an estimate. This set out costs and work for replacing both front and rear 
elevations of Mr Ss roof. The roofer said the damage had been caused by heavy rain 
saturating the felt.
UKI wasnt convinced there had been a storm at the time of the damage but it felt it should 
have taken a better look at the roof. So in January it sent a further company (C) to assess 
the damage. When C visited, Mr Ss mother said further damage was occurring to the rear 
bedroom. C considered the damage to both bedrooms and took photos. It felt the damage 
was long standing. No mention was made of the bathroom. Regarding the roof, C decided it 
still couldnt fully assess it. But it noted vegetation in the neighbouring gutter and felt that a 
blocked gutter may be causing the damage with the window reveal. It also spotted moss on 
the roof. UKI wasnt minded to think, following this review, that it had any liability for the 
damage claimed for.
Mr S then managed to have a roofer take some photos of the roof. He noted one cracked tile 
and a dislodged edge tile. He felt this type of damage could only have been caused by a 
storm and sent the photos to UKI. 
UKI issued a final response on the matter. This said that there had been no storm conditions 
present around the time the damage was noticed. It also said the internal damage was 
long-standing. Therefore, it wasnt minded to accept any part of the claim. But, it said, it 
hadnt always communicated well with Mr S, and it had, on occasion, caused delays. So it 
said it would pay Mr S £250 compensation. 
When Mr S complained to us our investigator felt UKIs answer regarding the roof damage 
had been fair and reasonable, but that it should have considered whether the damage in the 
bedroom was likely covered under the accidental damage section of the policy. She felt a 
further £250 compensation should be paid because UKI should, in her view, have advised 
Mr S to complete temporary repairs when he notified the damage to it in August 2019.
UKI said it had considered its liability for the internal damage in light of the accidental 
damage cover, but hadnt been minded to think it had any, because the damage was 
long-standing. It didnt think further compensation was warranted.    
Mr S said UKI hadnt determined what was causing water to get through his roof into his 
property, and despite him having spent £1,100 on repairs (having found, on further 
investigation, a total of 14 cracked tiles), further damage was still occurring. He said it was 
clear there were cracked tiles which can only have been damaged (in his view) by a storm, 
and this would naturally have resulted in water, after a time, seeping through into the 
property before eventually becoming visible and alerting him to the external damage. So 
Mr S felt the fact there were no storm conditions present in June 2019 was irrelevant. 
The complaint came to me for review. Whilst I didnt think UKI was liable for the roof repair, 
I felt that, despite UKIs belief otherwise, it did have liability for some of the internal damage 
(although not all). I didnt think it should have to pay more compensation. I issued a 
provisional decision to explain my views. UKI said it accepted my findings. Mr S said he 
appreciated the analysis of the situation and confirmed he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Not uncommon to most policies, Mr Ss cover only makes UKI liable for damage caused by 
certain insured events, or for accidental damage (as defined in the policy). So identifying 
damage exists isnt enough alone to make UKI liable for repairing it; the damage needs to be 
caused by one of the insured events listed in the policy (fire, storm, theft, escape of water 
etc.)  or caused accidentally  for UKI to be liable.  Here the cracked tiles, which may be 
allowing water to get underneath and saturate the felt, dont mean that UKI is automatically 
liable for repairing those tiles and/or acting to find out what else might be allowing water to 
ingress to the felt and then into the property below.  
Whilst Mr Ss policy provides cover for storm, the weather records show that no storm 
occurred in June 2019. Whilst the contractors refer to heavy rain having saturated the felt, 
heavy rain alone does not equate to a storm. This service considers a storm to be high 
winds usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. It can also be excessively heavy rain, snow 
or hail, without accompanying winds. No such weather occurred in June 2019.
It also isnt the case that UKI must be liable merely because Mr S assumes that a storm, at 
some point, must have caused the damage to the tiles. For one thing the damage has to 
have been caused by an identifiable and one-off storm event. There is then the issue that 
cracked tiles arent necessarily caused by storm conditions. Tiles do suffer wear and tear  
on the roof they are exposed to the elements, and the act of water freezing and thawing over 
time can cause cracking.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that UKI acted unfairly when it declined the part of the claim for 
storm damage to the roof. For similar reasons, Im not persuaded its fair to say that UKI 
should have accepted the claim for roof damage under the cover for accidental damage. 
The policy says accidental damage is sudden and unintentional physical damage which 
occurs unexpectedly. In this case, thinking about the sudden part of the definition, we 
simply dont know how and when the tiles became damaged. There is no expert opinion available which suggests the tiles cracked suddenly such that it can be said they were 
damaged suddenly.
The internal damage is somewhat different because we have Mr Ss and his mothers report 
about first noticing damage internally on 30 June 2019. But there are four different areas of 
internal damage which I need to deal with.
rear bedroom
It was only in January 2020 that damage was reported to this room. So this damage has 
occurred at a different time to that noticed in June 2019. This means that it would need to be 
dealt with as a separate claim. However, Mr S knew his roof was leaking and whilst he was 
disputing liability for that damage with UKI, I cant reasonably make it liable for damage 
which occurred in the meantime. Not when Ive found that its decline of the roof damage 
claim was fair and reasonable. 
bedroom window reveal
UKI has said this area is being damaged by a blocked gutter and that it has been going on 
for a long period of time. Mr S thinks it all comes from the cracked roof tiles. Given the 
position of the damage, and photos of the external fascias of the property, I think UKIs view 
is most likely correct. As the damage has been occurring for a long time, I cant reasonably 
require UKI to cover it. 
bedroom and bathroom ceiling
Mr S and his mother say they noticed damage on 30 June 2019. UKIs representative W, 
which viewed the damage in September/October 2019, did not suggest, at that time, that the 
damage looked to be long-standing. C, in January 2020 felt it was (at least in reference to 
the bedroom  no comment was made regarding the bathroom). But no reasoning or detail 
was given by C for why it thought the bedroom damage was long-standing. 
Given the delay between the claim being made and Cs assessment, I dont find Cs opinion 
to be particularly persuasive. The policy excess is £350. UKI has said if Mr S had reported 
the damage straightaway, it would likely have cost less than that to repair it. But Ive seen no 
evidence of that. And Im mindful that whilst Mr S delayed in notifying the damage to UKI, it 
still took W a number of weeks to attend and complete the first assessment. So Im not 
persuaded that Mr Ss delay means UKIs position was any more prejudiced than it became 
as a result of its own poor claim handling. UKI should consider the claim for accidental 
damage to the bedroom and bathroom ceilings.
Turning to the matter of compensation, Im not minded to make UKI pay more than the £250 
it has already paid. I realise this was a difficult time for Mr S, and that if UKI had done some 
things better then some of that aggravation would have been avoided. But Mr S was always 
going to be disappointed with UKIs refusal to accept the part of his claim for the damage to 
the roof. Whilst UKI could have given Mr S advice during their first contact about completing 
a temporary repair, it wouldnt be usual for an insurer to offer this type of advice unbidden. 
And whilst it later became evident that Mr S was worried about the worsening damage, 
I dont think there was anything in particular in the initial call that should reasonably have 
triggered a less than usual response from UKI  i.e. to offer advice about completing 
temporary repairs.
As neither party has objected to my provisional findings, Ive no need to change them. They 
are now the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things rightI require UKI to consider the part of Mr Ss claim for the damaged bedroom and bathroom 
ceiling.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide redress as detailed in 
putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman