DRN-2064033
The complaint
Mr P complains about what happened after Nationwide Building Society took the agreed 
overdraft off his current account. He said that the account was defaulted, even though he 
was making payments, which he said hed agreed with Nationwide.
What happened
Mr P had an account with Nationwide, which had a modest agreed overdraft. Nationwide 
contacted Mr P in April 2019 to say that the amount of money he was paying into his account 
wasnt enough to show that his arranged overdraft was suitable. So it was going to remove 
the overdraft in a little over a months time. It said he had to pay the money back.  
Mr P contacted Nationwide in June about his account. He told us that on this call hed 
entered into an arrangement with Nationwide to pay £10 per month, until the debt was paid 
off. And he was paying this amount. So he said he was very upset to find that the account 
had been defaulted. Hes since paid the debt off. 
Mr P thought Nationwide had broken its agreement with him, and acted unethically by 
defaulting an account that he was making payments towards. 
Nationwide said that there was no agreement to pay £10 per month. It didnt think it had 
made a mistake by defaulting the account. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said hed listened to the 
relevant call, and Mr P didnt agree a payment plan with Nationwide. The effect on his credit 
file was explained to Mr P on this call, and he was told that if he didnt get in touch again 
after a month, then the account could be defaulted. Our investigator didnt think Nationwide 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr P didnt agree. He said he was surprised that an account which was receiving payment 
could go into default. He said we should be looking at what happened between May, when 
the overdraft was removed, and September, when he made his last payment. He said he 
had an agreement to pay £10 per month, and hed stuck to that. But even if he didnt have 
an agreement, he thought that Nationwide shouldnt have defaulted an account he was 
paying money into. Our investigator didnt change his mind, so the case was passed to me 
for a final decision.
Mr P then wrote again. He repeated that he thought it was unethical for Nationwide to have 
defaulted his account. He said that he isnt struggling overall with his financial obligations, 
and so the default on this credit file created a dent in his credit history. He explained the 
difficulties this was now causing him, and said he wanted the default to be removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator.
Nationwide removed the agreed overdraft on Mr Ps account because the payments into the 
account werent enough to show the overdraft was suitable for him. I dont think that was an 
unreasonable thing for Nationwide to do. 
Nationwide gave Mr P over a months notice that it was doing this. Overdrafts are repayable 
on demand, so once Nationwide had removed the overdraft, the terms of Mr Ps account 
meant he shouldve paid all the money back to Nationwide straight away. 
When someones not paying back a debt in line with the original agreement, that usually 
shows on their credit file. Different circumstances though will have a different impact on a 
credit file. For example, if someones reached an agreement with the bank, and is paying the 
money back, then that usually has less of an impact than other options.
Mr P wasnt able to pay all the money back right away, as the original agreement envisaged. 
He spoke to Nationwide on the phone in June. I understand that Mr P recalls entering into an 
agreement with Nationwide to pay £10 per month on that call. But both our investigator and I 
have listened to this call, and neither of us think that Mr P did this. He didnt have any 
agreement with Nationwide to pay the money back. 
What I can hear on that call is that Mr P didnt want to enter an agreement to pay off the 
debt, because he didnt want to accept an option from Nationwide that wouldve involved any 
notes at all being added to his credit file. But, as Ive explained, when someone doesnt pay 
back a debt in line with the original agreement (and with an overdraft, that means straight 
away) its usual for a bank to record that on someones credit file. So I dont think Nationwide 
did anything wrong when it said that if Mr P made an arrangement with it, this would be 
noted on his file. 
Mr P preferred to leave his credit file showing an unauthorised overdraft. He said showing 
being in an arrangement would be worse for his credit file. Thats not what I would expect. 
I think its important to note that at this point in the phone call, Nationwide suggested that 
Mr P take some advice what an arrangement really means, and what the impact of that 
would be on his credit file. And Nationwide also said that if the debt would take Mr P more 
than a month to repay, he would need to talk to Nationwide again after a month. 
Mr P was making small payments towards the debt. Part of those payments was being eaten 
up by interest and charges on the overdraft. At the rate of £10 per month, it wouldve taken 
Mr P several years to repay this debt. And Mr P didnt contact Nationwide again.
I can see that Nationwide made a number of attempts to contact Mr P before it defaulted the 
account. The letters I can see recognise that Mr P is making small payments, but also make 
clear that he needed to pay off the whole balance before a set deadline, to avoid a default. 
Mr P didnt pay off the whole balance before the deadline, or contact Nationwide again about 
the debt before it was defaulted. So Nationwide moved to default the debt. 
Ive explained that the terms of Mr Ps account meant that he was supposed to pay all of this 
money back as soon as the overdraft was removed. He didnt do that, and he didnt enter 
into any arrangement to pay the money back. And he didnt respond to Nationwides 
attempts to contact him. Its not unfair or unreasonable for Nationwide to default his account in those circumstances. So I dont think Nationwide has to remove the default from Mr Ps 
credit file now. 
I know Mr P will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman