DRN-4048872
The complaint
Mr T says Capital One (Europe) Plc has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction on 
his credit card which paid for removal and associated services.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr T used his Capital One credit card (CO for short) to make payment to a 
removals service (which Ill call Firm P) for £1320.88 for moving chattels from one address 
to another address. This moving service was provided (although there were issues with that 
service which are dealt with separately to this decision). Mr T says he had a contract with 
Firm P which he agreed in June 2021 where he says he was told the cost would be around 
£980 for this service. Mr T says that he accepted a new price in May 2022 under protest and 
that Firm P should refund him the difference between the two quoted costs. Firm P didnt 
refund him. 
Mr T wasnt happy. So he complained to CO as hed paid around £1320 to Firm P with his 
CO credit card. CO considered what happened. After much back and forth CO said to Mr T it 
wouldnt refund him. Mr T wasnt happy with COs position, so he brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our Investigator felt CO didnt have to do anymore. And Mr T remains unhappy and so this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T used his CO credit card to pay for this moving service. This meant that if certain criteria 
were met, CO could have certain responsibilities to Mr T which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain 
circumstances, Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr T to hold CO liable for breaches of 
contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence CO can 
be held responsible for a like claim as that which Mr T would have against Firm P.
Mr Ts CO credit card is also part of a card scheme. And this scheme has rules which 
includes giving CO a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as Firm 
P, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers, and it is 
possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful without CO having done anything 
wrong in pursuing it.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about CO and whether it did what 
it should have and whether it treated Mr T fairly. This decision isnt about Firm P, which isnt 
within this Services remit for complaints about Chargeback and S75. I appreciate Mr T is 
unhappy with Firm P. But that doesnt necessarily mean that CO has treated him unfairly. I 
hope this crucial distinction is sufficiently clear.
Lastly I should add that Mr T has made a large number of arguments here and pursued 
those arguments passionately and to great depth. This services remit is to bring fairness, 
impartiality, clarity, informality and finality to such disputes. Accordingly although Ive 
considered the entirety of the evidence and arguments here, I shall only address the 
arguments in this decision which I consider to be key to my fulfilling my role here.
could CO challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr T has been clear that he paid Firm P for this service and doesnt dispute that he paid 
around £1320, when it was charged, or whether it was applied correctly to his account. So I 
dont think CO couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr T didnt properly authorise 
the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
CO is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is any longer a reasonable prospect of success.
CO didnt raise a chargeback here. However I dont think Mr T lost out because of this. The 
card scheme here sets out a number of reasons for disputes between purchasers and 
merchants in the rules of the scheme, including straightforward matters such as the 
transaction was double charged or that services or goods werent provided. Ive considered 
the chargeback reasons here and Mr Ts complaint doesnt sit squarely with any of them. It is 
clear that Mr T made the transaction and a service was provided broadly in line with what 
was agreed. So bearing in mind the nature of the chargeback reasons and the position 
which Mr T has described Firm P taking here, I dont think Firm P would have accepted the 
chargeback had it been raised. And Im not persuaded on balance such a chargeback would 
have been ultimately successful had it gone through the process fully, because Im not 
persuaded Firm P breached the contract Mr T had with it for the reasons Ill go on to explain 
later in this decision. So all in all and on balance, Im not persuaded Mr T has lost out here 
because I think even if CO had raised a chargeback in this situation knowing what it knew 
Im not persuaded it would have been successful had it gone through the process to 
conclusion.
Section 75
For CO to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that certain 
criteria were met and that Firm P either breached the contract or materially misrepresented 
something to Mr T which was untrue and that led to loss.
Here there are two quotes regarding this removal service that Mr T points towards in his 
arguments but there are key differences between them and also the terms of the contract 
here are relevant. However I note Mr T points to certain terms to support his case but hasnt 
persuasively addressed the terms of the contract which the Investigator pointed towards in 
their assessment of the matter. I should note that Mr T clearly agreed to both quotes 
including prices. I say this because for the first quote Ive seen a copy of it signed by him 
(electronically) and the second Ive seen an unsigned version but an email from Mr T to Firm 
P saying he will agree and pay the second quote amount under protest. So clearly Mr P 
agreed to both quotes and costs.
Mr T says in essence the first quote should have primacy over the second quote and thus he 
should be refunded the difference between the less costly first quote and the more 
expensive second quote. I disagree and shall explain why.The first quote agreed (which Mr P says should apply) is dated by Mr T in June 2021 but 
notes a different delivery address to that in the second quote which Mr T accepts on 9 May 
2022. Ive looked at the delivery locations (both quotes note the same origin location) and 
theyre significantly different distances and locations apart from the origin location. So 
immediately these appear obviously different removal jobs in terms of distances travelled 
and destinations.
Furthermore if Firm P considered the first quote to be the agreement in place it wouldnt 
have drafted a new quote and then provided it to Mr T for agreement. Clearly it thought it 
had reason to provide a second quote. So Ive considered this issue carefully.
Both quotes/contracts require those agreeing to them to have received, read, and 
understood the terms and conditions of business and that those cannot be changed after 
agreement unless in writing they are agreed before the service start. So it is clear on both 
counts Mr P agreed to the terms and conditions of business.
The terms and conditions of business state if the information or the customer requirements 
change for any reason then if the changes affect the quotation, we will let you know and if 
necessary issue you with a revised quotation. So clearly Mr T agreed to revised quotations 
in the event of changes. It is clear from the terms here that what constitutes changes or 
changes affecting the quotation is at the discretion of Firm P. And as the delivery address 
changed then on that basis I think it would be fair for CO to consider the provision of a 
revised quotation as being fair under this term in the agreed terms. It is also clear that Firm P 
also points to differences in the amount of chattels to be moved between quotation and the 
actual amounts to be moved. And clearly Firm P provided a revised quotation at its 
discretion in this case. Which Mr T agreed to and those services were provided (albeit with 
the matter I referred to in my background which is being dealt with separately). And those 
services were provided, so Im not persuaded that there is a breach or misrepresentation 
here which CO should be held responsible for.
The terms go on to say Our quotation is valid for 28 days from the date of issue and is 
subject to the availability of your preferred moving dates and our resources. And it says 
later This agreement will not come into force until we have received your acceptance. I can 
see Mr T dated the agreement in June 2021. So I dont think it would be unfair for CO to rely 
on this to consider the quotation being no longer valid after 28 days after Mr Ts acceptance. 
Such a position is further strengthened later in the terms because it goes on to note that 
additional charges may be chargeable if the services arent provided within 28 days of the 
date of acceptance (Mr T accepted in June 2021). So it is abundantly clear that Mr T agreed 
that additional charges could be chargeable from 28 days after he agreed in June 2021. And 
in essence thats what happened. And additional charges arent defined here. And as Mr T 
accepted the revised quotation under protest and specifically notes the overall cost in his 
email of May 2022. So I dont think hes lost out here because he knowingly agreed to the 
overall price of the new quote which is in essence a revised quote bearing in mind the time 
elapsed and the change of delivery address and amounts of items to be moved. So overall 
Im not persuaded CO have treated Mr T unfairly by not refunding him in relation to issues 
around the contract terms.
I should also note the quotes are both in the name of another person. It is true that Mr T 
signed one of these documents and paid for these services. But just because you fund a 
transaction doesnt make you a contracting party in the contract. And the terms here defined 
you or your as the customer. This isnt particularly helpful to deciding who the contracting 
parties are here. But bearing in mind neither of the addresses being delivered to on the 
quotes appear to be Mr Ts address and that another person is named (who may be a 
relation) then I could imagine an argument being made that Mr T wasnt a contractor here as 
he was not the individual the documentation was prepared for and it appears he wasnt the recipient of the moved chattels nor is it clear they are chattels belonging to him. I dont think I 
have to establish this matter definitively because it doesnt make a difference to the outcome 
as to whether CO has to refund Mr T in this case. But I do mention it because if Mr T was to 
reject this final decision and try to continue his dispute with CO directly over this matter he 
should be aware that there is at least a lack of clarity around whether the required Debtor 
Creditor Supplier agreement required to make a Section 75 claim is indeed in place here. 
But as I said, it is not at the crux of the matter here because it doesnt materially impact what 
my outcome is in regard to this dispute brought to this service as I dont think CO should 
refund Mr T.
For completeness I shall now turn to some of Mr Ts arguments. Mr T points to the 
definitions of costs in the contract under the additional charges section of the contract. I note 
that within that definition it says changes relating to costs due to (gives a list of issues which 
could change costings) but that changes to costs are not limited to those issues or for any 
reasons beyond our (Firm Ps) control. Mr Ts argument here isnt at the crux of the matter 
to my mind. I say this because of the reasons Ive already given but in addition also because 
it says these are examples where additional costs may apply. It is clearly not a list 
designed to be exhaustive. And in any event he agreed to the revised quote and knowingly 
paid it and received benefit of the service for it. So Im far from persuaded that CO have 
treated Mr T unfairly here.
Mr T makes arguments around issues such as data protection between CO and Firm P, 
whether or not CO asked him for support in dealing with Firm P and whether he refused this 
or not, and whether he provided CO sufficient information to support his claim. I consider the 
matters Ive described already as being the important factors here in deciding this case. And 
in the interests of brevity and clarity Im not going to address these issues because I dont 
consider they make any difference to whether Mr T gets the refund he seeks.
Mr T says There is no doubt at all that (Firm P) has breached the terms of the contract 
because they have admitted that some of the 35% increase in price relates to costs that the 
contract does not allow them to pass on. Specifically, (Firm P) stated in their e-mail to me of 
4 May 2022 that "the final volume [of furniture] was 35% more than we estimated or quoted 
for" and "we have now amended the quotation to reflect the right volume on the delivery ex 
store". I disagree for the reasons Ive already given, and I think Mr Ts arguments here fall 
significantly short of being persuasive bearing in mind the terms agreed here and that he 
agreed the revised costs in line with the agreement (s) he agreed to.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Mr T wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Ts avenues for recouping the loss he feels hes suffered are now 
reduced. But this does not mean that CO has treated him unfairly or that it should refund 
him.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr T has said, Im not persuaded 
CO has treated Mr T unfairly. So unfortunately for Mr T his complaint does not succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Capital One (Europe) 
plc. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-ThomasOmbudsman