DRN-3772523
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as F is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wouldnt reimburse 
the money which they lost due to an authorised push payment scam. They say that HSBC 
did not carry out adequate security checks and allowed a fraudster to receive and withdraw a 
large sum of money.
What happened
Briefly, as I understand it, F was looking to buy some auxiliary industrial equipment from a 
company in Italy for one of its projects. Unknown to F their suppliers email was hacked and 
the fraudster advised F to make a payment of £100,000 to an account with HSBC. The fraud 
came to light a few days later and F raised it with their bank who in turn contacted HSBC. 
Unfortunately, HSBC could only recover about £18.
F complained to HSBC who did not uphold their complaint. The bank said that it didnt do 
anything wrong and it attempted to recover all the money it could, on being advised of the 
scam. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and were of the view that it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary: 
The receipts from F and the outgoing payments soon after, were unusual to the account. 
So, HSBC could have done more here to intervene. Had it done so the fraud could have 
been prevented.  
That said, a no match Confirmation of Payee warning was presented to F when they 
attempted to make the payments. But they continued with the payment, so its fair that 
they bear some responsibility for the loss.
To resolve the complaint, HSBC should reimburse F £49,990.60, being 50% of the 
amount lost after the recovery of £18.80, together with simple interest at 8%. The interest 
should be paid from the date HSBC was advised of the fraud to the date of settlement.
F accepted investigators opinion, but HSBC did not. In the main it said:
Had the bank intervened and contacted its customer to question some outgoing 
payments, the focus wouldve been to ensure its customer wasnt at risk of financial 
harm from fraud. There was no sufficient cause at the time to see proof of entitlement 
documentation for the receipts at that point. But even if the bank had sought proof, on 
the face of it, the customer did have documents which showed an entitlement to the 
funds. Had they given those documents at the material time, given that the bank hadnt 
yet received a notification of scam, it is more likely that the bank wouldnt have 
concluded that its customer was defrauding a third party.
The principal cause of the Fs loss was their own negligence in ignoring the negative 
Confirmation of Payee (CoP) result and other red flags when making the payment. The 
payment wouldnt have reached HSBC customers account had F appropriately dealt 
with the CoP result. So, it is fair that F bears the entire loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did HSBC miss an opportunity to prevent the loss to F? 
HSBC has an ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to accounts with it. 
Specifically, Im mindful that it:  
must conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence;
has a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and maintain 
effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be 
used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook);
must fairly and reasonably been monitoring accounts and any payments made or 
received to counter various risks including anti-money laundering and preventing fraud 
and scams. At the material time, those requirements included maintaining proportionate 
and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage risk, e.g. 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the 
course of the relationship;
must have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate risk of fraud. This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years.
Ultimately, it is a matter for HSBC as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate.  But where it is alleged that it didnt 
do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an authorised push payment fraud, I will 
look into the circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in 
that case HSBC could have fairly and reasonably done more. 
The bank has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate this. I am 
limited as to how much information I can share because it relates to a third-party account. 
But Id like to assure F that Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision. 
Having reviewed the submissions, I agree with the Investigator that HSBC could have done 
more here, for the reasons they have already explained. 
Briefly, as I understand it, the recipient business account was opened in July 2020. Since 
opening, there was no activity at all on the account until the payments arrived from F in 
October 2020. Five large payments, each for £20,000 arrived in quick succession. Thus, a 
total of £100,000 was received in one day, from the same payer. This was then quickly 
followed by a series of large outgoing payments.
Given this, I agree with the Investigator that there was enough going on here that ought to 
have prompted HSBC to take a closer look at what was happening, at least when the first payment (for about £10,000) was made out of the account, if not earlier. In fact, it looks like 
HSBC did intervene on a couple of occasions when the outgoing transactions started 
happening. It also appears that it spoke to its customer twice. Unfortunately, the bank isnt 
able to give us a copy of the recording of those calls, so it is difficult to know what was 
discussed during those calls.  However, it appears that this was essentially to ensure that its 
customer wasnt a victim of fraud. 
It may be, to start with, the banks objective was to look out for unusual transactions going 
out of the account in order to protect its customer from the possibility of fraud. But that gave 
the bank an opportunity to look more closely at what was going on. Had it done so, it would 
have noticed that after no activity for few months on a newly opened account, several 
transactions of unusually large amounts were received in quick succession. It would also 
have seen that there was a mismatch in the payees name in each one of those incoming 
transactions. I think this was enough to have given the bank sufficient cause for concern, 
and enough to have prompted a further investigation into the incoming payments. 
The bank says that even if it carried out further investigation, their customer would have 
been able to produce documentation to show that the payments were indeed due to them 
(as this is what they subsequently did  though by that time the bank was already alerted to 
the scam). And given that there was no indication of fraud at the time the bank intervened, 
those documents wouldnt have raised any suspicions. 
I agree that had the bank questioned its customer earlier about the source of funds, they 
most likely would have produced the same documents that they did later. These were an 
agreement, which stated that an invoice would be raised after each stage, and five 
invoices each for £20,000. 
So, on the face of it, each invoice was raised following some work done by the banks 
customer. If so, then it is reasonable to expect that, beforehand, there was sufficient activity 
on the bank account such as payment to staff and other overheads. But there was no activity 
at all on the account since it was opened. There were no payments at all such as for 
materials, salary, direct debits, utility payments and everyday expenses which one could 
reasonably expect to see in a business account. The first set of transactions in the account 
since it was opened were the five payments from F. 
I cant see how the banks customer would have explained the receipt of such a large 
income before any incurring any expense at all. It wasnt as if the payments were by way of 
advance. That is not what the agreement or the invoices stated.
Further, as stated by the Investigator, had HSBC carried out proper checks at the time, it 
would have noticed that the payee name on the payment instruction was completely different 
to that of its customers. A quick internet search would have revealed that the named payee 
is a world leader in production of systems for storage, transport and treatment of polymers, 
plastic and food powders. The Companies House Register states that this company is 
engaged in wholesale machinery and equipment. 
On the other hand, the invoice produced by the banks customer was for installation of 
CCTVs and some software. I am not persuaded that HSBCs customer would have been 
able to provide a satisfactory explanation for this anomaly.
The bank said that the information on The Companies House Register would not help to 
show whether the two companies were partnered or linked. However, the banks own 
records indicate that its customer was a newly formed company, with operations entirely in 
the UK and that it was not part of any franchise or family groups. And why F would pay to a 
different company instead of the company that raised the invoice?The bank also said that if questioned, its customer would likely have said they had no 
knowledge as to why the payee name had been input incorrectly by F. It is difficult to see 
why F would make an error like this. And it wasnt just for one transaction. It was for each of 
the five transactions. I am not persuaded that this would have been a satisfactory 
explanation had the customer said so.
I have taken into account what the bank has said, and I acknowledge that it is difficult to 
know for certain what would have happened had the bank intervened early on and 
questioned its customer about the source of incoming payments. But taking all of the above 
into account, I am not persuaded, on balance, that the fraudster would have been able to 
provide a credible explanation given the anomalies. 
Generally, when there are concerns about a payment (or payments), banks do tend to 
thoroughly investigate the matter. And had HSBC done so, I think it would have, during this 
time received the scam notification from the remitting bank. 
Thus, I think the bank missed an opportunity here to help prevent the financial loss to F. 
Therefore, it is only fair that it compensates F for its failure.    
Did F act reasonably in the circumstances?
For completeness, Ive also considered whether F should bear some responsibility for their 
loss due to any contributory negligence. 
As I understand it, it was the suppliers email which was hacked and as such the email 
address from which F received the emails werent suspicious. As pointed out by F, the 
fraudster was able to engage in discussions without raising suspicions. 
That said, I agree that it was somewhat unusual for a big supplier to have two bank account 
changes within a short period of time. Also, an earlier payment had successfully been paid 
into the first new (genuine) account and so the fraudsters excuse that the bank was still 
finalising paperwork for that account and asking F to make payment to a different account 
was somewhat odd. And then there was a no match Confirmation of Payee message as 
well. 
So, I think there was some failure on part of F. However, this does not negate the fact that 
HSBC too missed a subsequent opportunity to prevent Fs loss, as described above.  
In the circumstances I consider it fair that the loss is shared equally between HSBC and F
Putting things right
As noted at the outset, the total payment made to the fraudster was £100,000. Of this I 
understand that only £18.80 could be recovered and returned to F. If so, the loss to F works 
out to £99,981.20. 
For the reasons I have given, this loss should be borne equally by HSBC and F.  
This means HSBC should reimburse £49,990.60 to F. It should also pay interest on this sum. 
The funds were lost from a business current account, which earned little interest. But the 
relevant question is the opportunity cost of the lost funds to F. In this case, I cannot be 
certain about the cost to F of being deprived of the money because it might have used the 
funds in a variety of ways. It is however clear to see that this was a large sum of money and 
the loss has had a big impact on the company. In the circumstances, without any compelling reason to depart from our usual approach, I consider it fair and reasonable that HSBC pays 
F simple interest at 8% p.a. on the £49,990.60, and that the interest be paid from the date 
the bank was notified of the scam to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. In full and final settlement of it, HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should pay £49,990.60 to F together with simple interest at 8% p.a. Interest 
should be paid from the date the bank was notified of the scam to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman