DRN-2465131
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc declined a claim she made under section 75 (S75) 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She says that a garage carried out unsuccessful repairs 
on her car causing further problems.
What happened
Ms M purchased a car in 2014 which was then around five years. It has required various 
repairs over time. And around September 2018 the car developed a problem with 
overheating and oil consumption, so Ms M took it to a garage and asked about having a 
reconditioned engine fitted. Ms M says the garage advised her it would be able to repair the 
car without needing to replace the engine. 
The garage carried out a number of repairs including replacing the cylinder head and 
gaskets, but Ms M says that the repairs didnt fix the issues with the car and it required 
further repairs. She complained about the garage and obtained a full refund of the cost of the 
repairs.
In May 2019 Ms M took the car to another garage. She says she had a long discussion with 
the mechanic about whether it was worth having the car repaired and that she didnt want to 
have the car suffering from excessive consumption of oil and coolant. She says she was 
assured by the mechanic that they would be able to repair the car and she could enjoy 
trouble free motoring for a long time afterwards.
The second garage carried out the following repairs to the car; replaced the head gasket, 
replaced the cam belt, coil pack, 1209 coolant and hose clamp. Ms M test drove the car 
afterwards and paid for the repairs which amounted to £1,250 using her credit card with 
Santander. The mileage on the car was 120,196.
Ms M says that shortly after these repairs the engine management light illuminated and the 
car started to smoke, so she returned it to the garage where further repairs were undertaken 
to the cooling system which was leaking. However, Ms M says that the car continued to 
require excessive oil and coolant. She says that the garage didnt assist her and so in 
August 2019, she made a claim to Santander under S75 for the cost of the repairs. She said 
the garage had misrepresented the repairs and breached its contract with her.
Santander requested further evidence from Ms M and in October 2019, it asked Ms M to 
provide an independent report that showed the repairs hadnt been carried out correctly. It 
also confirmed with her in December 2019 that this report was required but if her claim was 
subsequently upheld it would also reimburse her its cost. 
In February 2020 Ms M obtained a report which she sent to Santander that said that after 
tests it was confirmed that the car was using excessive oil. However, the report didnt set out 
why the car was using excessive oil or make any link with previous repairs.  This report said 
that the mileage of the car was 129,750.
Santander advised Ms M that it still required an independent report as to the quality of the 
repairs. Ms M then contacted this service. During our investigation Santander sent Ms M its 
final response to her complaint about its handling of her S75 claim.
Santander said that without the independent report detailing the substandard work that had 
been carried out on the car there wasnt enough grounds to pursue a claim. It couldnt 
presume that the cars use of excessive oil was due to unsatisfactory repairs.
Our investigator, after investigating Ms Ms complaint, didnt recommend that it should be 
upheld. She said she thought Santander had dealt with Ms Ms claim under S75 fairly as 
there was no evidence that the faults the car was currently suffering from were the result of 
poor repairs. She also said that based on the evidence she wasnt able to say that the work 
carried out in the car hadnt been necessary as Ms M had been able to drive for a further 
10,000 miles afterwards.
Ms M disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said that the car had continued to 
deteriorate following these repairs, but she hadnt had any choice and had to use it. The car 
had now broken down completely.
Ms M said that the garage had misrepresented the repairs to her as she had been told the 
car wouldnt have any further problems. She said she had specifically asked about the 
excessive oil consumption and been told this would be fixed.
Ms M said she wasnt able to arrange for an independent report because this would require 
the engine to be dismantled and would be prohibitively expensive. She said the repairs had 
been of a poor standard as the car had continued to have the same issues when returned to 
her.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances section 75 of the CCA gives a consumer an equal right to claim a 
refund against the supplier of goods or services and the provider of credit, if there has been 
a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. My role is to decide whether 
Santander handled Ms Ms section 75 claim fairly and reasonably.
Santander says that it needs further evidence that shows the repairs werent carried out on 
the car correctly and, without this, it wasnt able to pursue Ms Ms claim under S75. Ms M 
says she has provided sufficient information that shows there was both a misrepresentation 
and a breach of contract.
Dealing firstly with the issue of misrepresentation, this means that an untrue statement was 
made that induced Ms M to agree to the repairs being carried out. Ms M says that she had 
an open and honest discussion with the mechanic at the garage and was assured the 
repairs would have the car working again and she did not need to have the engine replaced. 
In particular she says she said she didnt want to have a car that had an excessive use of oil 
and was told this wouldnt be the case. The garage provided a detailed invoice as to the 
work carried out on the car.
I dont know what was said between Ms M and the garage and where evidence is missing or 
contradictory then I must decide what I think is the most likely thing to have happened. Looking at the garages invoice Ive seen that the car was towed there, and a number of 
repairs were undertaken. But I cant see any reference on this invoice to investigate and 
repair the car using excessive oil and I would have thought that if there had been a detailed 
conversation between Ms M and the garage then there would be something referencing that 
on the invoice.
Ms M also says the garage said they would get the car back to a good standard so she 
would be able to drive it without any problems. While I accept the garage would have spoken 
about the repairs it would undertake with Ms M, I havent seen enough evidence that I can 
fairly say these repairs were misrepresented. They appear to have been necessary as the 
car has been driveable up until recently, albeit there have been issues with oil and coolant 
consumption. I also dont think it likely the garage would have said the car would be fault free 
afterwards particularly taking its age and mileage into account. 
So, looking at the evidence I dont think there is enough to say any misrepresentation was 
made by the garage to Ms M about the repairs.
In respect of a breach of contract, Ms M says the repairs were clearly of a poor standard as 
the car continued to have problems afterwards. She says over time the car has deteriorated 
to the point it now no longer works and the repairs carried out by the garage now need to be 
redone. While I accept the car has faults, the issue is whether there is sufficient evidence 
that these are due to the repairs undertaken by the garage. 
I think its reasonable to expect a car of that age and mileage to have wear and tear and for 
repairs to be required, so it is difficult to say the more recent faults with the car can be linked 
back to repairs that are nearly two years old, particularly as the car has continued to be 
used.
In regard to the issues Ms M said the car was suffering from within a short time of the 
repairs, again, without any evidence showing there were due to the standard of the repairs 
the car had received, it is hard to say whether they were due to the repairs or were issues 
that arose through age and use of the car. 
I appreciate Ms M feels she had little choice about continuing to use the car and she says its 
unfair to take this into account. but I dont think I can reasonably ignore that she was able to 
drive over 10,000 miles plus in it following the repairs. I assume this mileage has increased 
since then as Ive seen that it was relatively recently that the car became unusable which 
was just under two years from the repairs. 
In light of the use Ms M has had of the car and although its running has not been without 
issues, I dont think I can reasonably say that the repairs werent necessary. The car has 
been kept going.
For the reasons given above, I dont think there is enough evidence to say that its more 
likely than not that there has been a breach of contract due to substandard repairs.
So, although I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Ms M I cant say 
Santanders request for further evidence that the faults with the car were linked to the 
standard of the repairs was unreasonable. I think it handled Ms Ms claim under S75 fairly 
and Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decisionAs set out above Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 05 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman