DRN-3500680
The complaint
Mr I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt protect him from falling 
victim to a scam in 2018, and hasnt reimbursed him or pursued a chargeback for the 
payments.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill summarise what happened and focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
Mr I told us he lost £1,200 to a scam investment in December 2018, though statements 
suggest he paid out £974.19.
NatWest said it wasnt required to make checks on the payments. It also explained that Mr I 
hadnt raised a chargeback within the applicable time limits, typically 120 days but with an 
overall cut-off point of 540 days. It said Mr I would have needed to raise the matter by 3 July 
2020, but he didnt contact NatWest until 29 December 2020.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the payments wouldnt have triggered 
NatWests anti-fraud systems and that there are no recovery options given due to the 
amount of time passed. But Mr I didnt agree. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I agree that these three payments were relatively low, and werent significantly 
unusual or out of character, so wouldnt have triggered NatWests anti-fraud systems. 
After the payments were made, Mr I didnt notify NatWest of an issue with them for 
around two years. By this point, it had been well over 540 days since the transactions 
 which is the maximum amount of time given by the card scheme to raise a claim. 
So NatWest didnt act in error  it couldnt have pursued a chargeback.
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think NatWest could 
reasonably have been expected to prevent the payments at the time. And it also couldnt 
have done more in relation to a chargeback as it doesnt decide the time limits  the card 
scheme does.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman