DRN-4464328
The complaint
Ms D complains about what happened when she asked National Westminster Bank Plc for a 
Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage for a property purchase. She said she wasnt warned interest 
rates may change, and was denied an earlier appointment as the online system didnt work.
What happened
Ms D told us she wanted to purchase a BTL property. She had an offer accepted, and 
wanted to take up a five year fixed rate mortgage with an interest of 2.59% which was then 
being offered by NatWest. Ms D said she started her application through a broker, but wasnt 
happy with them and wanted to apply directly to NatWest.
Ms D said she tried to apply online, but that wasnt successful. So she called NatWest. She
said she was told she needed to arrange a meeting to go through the application process.
Ms D said she was sure NatWest would have a recording of this call. And she said on that
call, she was told she could have an earlier appointment if she went through the application
process on the website, but that simply didnt work. She said she was also told NatWest
would call if an earlier appointment became available, but it didnt call about this.
Ms D said the call handler made a mistake with her email, so she didnt get the agreement in
principle until she chased up NatWest for that.
Ms D said shed understood the mortgage rate she was applying for, and got an agreement
in principle for, was the rate she would get. She said NatWest didnt mention rates could
change. But when Ms D spoke to the mortgage advisor, she discovered the rate had
changed, and she could no longer afford the purchase.
Ms D was very unhappy with the service NatWest provided. In particular, she wanted to
know why she hadnt been told that the rate she wanted wasnt guaranteed. And she wanted
to know why all her attempts to go through the application process online had failed. She
said there was clearly a problem with NatWests online portal.
Ms D also said the mortgage advisor claimed to be extremely busy, but when she wanted to
think about things, he said he would be available to take her call pretty much any time. She
thought this meant an earlier appointment could have been provided.
As a resolution to her complaint, Ms D wanted NatWest to offer her the mortgage shed
applied for, and to hold this rate for her for the next five years, so she could use that either
for another purchase, or to remortgage her own home.
NatWest said if the online portal doesnt work for someone, that usually means they need to
speak to a mortgage advisor before it can approve lending to them. It didnt think there was
anything wrong with its online mortgage application service on the day Ms D had called.
NatWest said it didnt offer earlier advisor appointments to people who applied online. Its
online system just processes non-advised applications, and moves these to the offer stage if
they were approved, which Ms D unfortunately wasnt.
NatWest said it was sorry about the long wait for an appointment. It said it was working to
reduce that waiting time, and it had offered Ms D the first available appointment.
NatWest said its rates are subject to change, and it cannot hold a rate until a mortgage
appointment takes place. So it wouldnt honour the rate Ms D had first discussed with
NatWest. It explained the scheduling of its advisors time, which Ms D had queried.
NatWest said it was sorry it had got Ms Ds email address wrong, and noted her down as an
existing customer, so shed had to get back in touch. NatWest wanted to send her some
flowers to say sorry for this.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, but not that NatWest needed to
offer Ms D a mortgage now. He said NatWest made two mistakes, in recording Ms Ds email
address, and in saying she was an existing customer when she wasnt. He felt those caused
inconvenience to Ms D, and NatWest should pay £80 for that. But he said hed seen no
evidence that NatWest had ever suggested the rate Ms D saw initially was reserved for her.
And he wouldnt expect that to be the case at this stage. He didnt think NatWest was just
trying to charge Ms D a higher rate.
Ms D didnt agree. She said the core of her complaint was NatWest didnt tell her the rate
wasnt locked in. She asked why NatWest would agree to lend if the rate would then
change? She might not be eligible if it did. Ms D wanted to know where it says that an
agreement in principle doesnt lock in a rate.
And she said the online portal, which she thought would have allowed her to access an
agreement in principle (and through this, earlier appointments with the mortgage advisor)
repeatedly declined her application. Ms D said we hadnt even addressed that.
Ms D wanted her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
Before I address the core issues in Ms Ds complaint, Id like to set out that I agree with 
our investigator that Ms D faced inconvenience because her email address and 
customer status were both wrongly recorded. I think a payment of £80, which NatWest 
has agreed to make, would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to that part of Ms Ds 
complaint.
Ill now turn to the core issues. I note that when Ms D complained, she said she thought 
her calls with NatWest would have been recorded. They were, and I have now listened 
to the calls she made on 16 June, the day when she first enquired about a mortgage 
and got an appointment with a mortgage advisor, and on 13 July, when she had that 
appointment.
It may be worth setting out here that a mortgage application is a two stage process. 
Theres an initial light-touch check on whether the lender might be prepared to lend, and 
if so, how much. Thats often referred to as either a decision in principle or mortgage in 
principle. Its not an offer to lend, its not binding on the lender, and it doesnt guarantee 
a rate. Thats usually explained on the in principle decision document.After this, theres a formal application, to see if the lender will make an offer. At this 
stage, the lender will often ask to see documents, like payslips or bank statements. 
Rates may be locked in at the application stage, but that depends on the lender. If an 
offer is made as a result of the application, the rate then offered would then be 
guaranteed, subject to the conditions on the offer itself.
Ill now turn to the call recordings. Ms D made two calls to NatWest on 16 June. At the 
start of the first call, she said she had seen a mortgage product she wanted on the 
website, and wanted to know how to secure that. Ms D said then that she hadnt 
submitted any online application, she hadnt done anything at this stage.
At the start of the call, NatWests call agent started to take some details from Ms D, and 
she said she wanted the rate of 2.74% fixed for five years. The agent replied ..the rates 
are subject to change which they can go up and down until you submit the application. 
The mortgage advisor will discuss the rates if you want further advice.
So I think Ms D was warned at the outset that any rate she could see online now wasnt 
necessarily the rate she would get at the time of her application.
The agent then said Ms D had two options for making her application for a BTL 
mortgage. He said she could apply online, or have an appointment with a mortgage 
advisor. Ms D said she would prefer to apply online. I cant hear on this call that Ms D 
was told that she could get a mortgage appointment any quicker if she started the 
application online. At the end of this call, Ms D was intending to carry out the whole 
application process online, without any discussion with a NatWest mortgage advisor.
Theres then a second call, on the same day. On that call, Ms D said shed tried to do a 
mortgage application online and it declined. But on this call, she told the agent shed 
previously been sent an agreement in principle through a broker, and it was for the 
same mortgage. (Ms D said shed just decided not to work with that broker, as they 
werent very efficient.) So she wasnt clear why her direct application to NatWest had 
been declined.
The agent offered to carry out the same initial decision in principle stage for Ms D over 
the phone, and Ms D agreed. The agent also said her decision in principle process, over 
the phone, would be a bit simpler than the online application. Before the agent asked Ms 
D questions, she read out some standard wording. That included an explanation that 
what Ms D was doing, at that stage, wasnt the actual application for credit. Relevant 
details were then taken from Ms D. (I have noted above that some of these werent 
accurately recorded.)
The agent told Ms D that the mortgage was agreed, subject to an application. She was 
then asked if she was ready to speak to a mortgage advisor. The agent checked the 
offer Ms D had made on the property was accepted, and she arranged the appointment.
When Ms D expressed disappointment at how long it would take to get an appointment, 
the agent said Ms D could try again online, to secure an offer that way. The agent 
suggested Ms D may have input something incorrectly, as the details shed given hadnt 
been declined through the phone application.
The agent did ask Ms D to call back, and cancel the appointment if she managed to 
complete her application online, so she wouldnt need the appointment after all. But I 
cant hear on this second call that the agent suggested she would call Ms D if an earlier 
appointment opened up. Nor can I hear that she suggested Ms D might get an earlier 
appointment using the online application.NatWest has confirmed that its online application system only allows for non-advised 
applications. So it does mean applicants dont have to wait for an appointment with a 
mortgage advisor, if their online application is successful. But the online system doesnt 
do what Ms D had apparently understood it would do  to supply an agreement in 
principle and bump customers up the queue for mortgage appointments with an advisor.
I understand Ms D has a different recollection of the conversations she had on this day. 
I will arrange for these calls to be sent to Ms D, so she can hear the recordings before 
replying to my provisional decision.
The second agent Ms D spoke to, said she would email the mortgage agreement in 
principle once the call was finished. I understand the agent had wrongly recorded Ms 
Ds email, Ms D told us she had to ring back to get this. So it does seem likely that Ms D 
received a second decision in principle, directly from NatWest. And what she said on the 
second call makes me think she had also received a first decision in principle, through 
her application with a broker.
I dont have the exact documents Ms D was sent, but I would expect a mortgage 
decision in principle document to explain that its not a binding offer, and that any rate 
quoted had a limited validity period. So that would confirm what Ms D had also been told 
on the phone, she wouldnt necessarily be able to secure the rate shed discussed.
I dont know why Ms D wasnt able to apply successfully online. Its possible that this 
was because she had previously started an application with a broker, but I cant be sure. 
I do know NatWest has confirmed it didnt have any general problems with the online 
portal at that time, and I havent seen anything to make me think thats not right.
Ive also listened to the call where Ms D spoke to a mortgage advisor, and was told 
about the available rate towards the end of her call. She said then that rates had gone 
up a lot since she first enquired. The advisor said he was sorry, but rates were subject 
to change at any time. NatWest cant hold rates before an appointment took place, and 
there had been underlying changes in the economy.
The advisor told Ms D that the potential for changes in rates wasnt explained by an 
agent when someone just books an appointment with a mortgage advisor. But when he 
said that, he hadnt listened to the relevant call recordings. I have, and Im satisfied that 
Ms D was warned about that, on the first call she had on 16 June.
Ms D said she wanted to think about things, and the advisor said there could be a long 
wait for any subsequent appointment. But after some discussion with Ms D, he did say 
he would squeeze Ms D in for a short discussion if she decided to go ahead. He offered 
to stay late at work for her, so he could do that. I dont think this call is evidence that 
NatWests mortgage advisors time is poorly organised, or that Ms Ds mortgage advisor 
appointment could have been arranged sooner than it was.
I know Ms D has been very disappointed with her mortgage application, and that she 
wasnt able to go ahead with her purchase. Im sorry to hear that, but I dont think thats 
NatWests fault. So, although I know she will be disappointed, I dont currently think that 
NatWest has to pay more than the £80 it has agreed to.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest replied to accept my provisional decision. Ms D hasnt replied.
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Ms D £80 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman