DRN-3351262
The complaint
Mr F complains that Symmetric Systems Limited trading as BankSmart (BS) are asking him
to pay cancellation fees for payment protection insurance (PPI) and default charge claims.
What happened
In September 2020, Mr F said he received a barrage of emails and letters from BS about
numerous PPI claims. Mr F said hed already been told by his lenders some time before, that
he didnt have any PPI policies. Mr F said he didnt recognise the claims, or account details
sent by BS. He immediately asked BS to stop contacting him. Mr F said they responded by
sending him a bill for around £4,000 for cancelling his claims. He complained to BS.
BS said that Mr F had signed their letters of authority (LoA) in May 2019, instructing them to
pursue mis-sold PPI and default charge claims. As Mr F cancelled all his claims with them,
outside of the 14-day cooling off period they could charge their cancellation fee for the work
theyd done for him. But as a gesture of goodwill they said they were willing to reduce this by
50%. And gave Mr F 90 days to respond, if he agreed within the timeframe they said they
would waive the remainder of their fee.
Mr F wasnt happy with BS reply. He said he remembered being contacted about PPI in
2018, but he didnt have any successful claims. He reiterated he hadnt authorised BS to
make any claims for him. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said BS cancellation fees werent justified where there was no evidence of
PPI, or the claim had already been dealt with by the lender. Neither could they charge their
cancellation fees for default charge claims where there was no likelihood of success. He also
detailed a number of charges he didnt think it was fair or reasonable for BS to include.
BS didnt agree, they said Mr F had cancelled his agreement with them, and they were
charging their cancellation fee in line with their terms and conditions. They asked for an
ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This
means were impartial, we ask questions and consider the information weve been given by
both parties to reach an outcome thats fair and reasonable. We wouldnt comment on the
validity of a signature as its not within our role as we arent handwriting experts. Where
there is a different version of events as is the case here, I will decide what I think most likely
happened. And whether BS has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr F.
BS said Mr F initially signed up for the services of another claims management company
(CMC). After the CMC transferred their claims, BS said they contacted the CMCs clients
and asked them to complete their LoA. BS has provided a signed LoA for mis-sold PPI
claims, a signed LoA for default charge claims, a signed letter of engagement (LoE), and a
signed credit report request form. The LoAs appear to have been prepopulated with a list of
14 lenders, and the personal details for Mr F. All the documents have a handwritten
signature and are dated May 2019. BS has shown they provided Mr F, in August 2019 log in
details to enable him to access their claim portal so he could check the progress of his
claims. Ive also seen copies of letters from lenders sent to Mr F that have a BS reference.
So, I think Mr F is likely to have agreed for BS to represent him.
The LoE includes BS terms and conditions which show that Mr F would have engaged BS
on the basis their fee would only be payable on the success of the claim(s) - agreeing to pay
BS a commission of 20% (plus VAT) on successful PPI claims. And 25% (plus VAT) for any
other financial claims.
Mr F has said he was told he didnt have any PPI policies and only recognised a savers
account in the details sent to him. I can see BS registered claims for Mr F in July, August
and September 2019. But I havent seen any evidence of Mr F having any successful claims
for either mis-sold PPI or default claim charges. And as some of the lenders were
corresponding with BS about Mr Fs claims, as they recognised them as Mr Fs
representative, I think its likely the lenders would have made BS aware of any settlement
offers theyd made to Mr F.
In September 2020, BS contacted Mr F after theyd sent progress requests to the lenders
about Mr Fs claim(s), and it was this that Mr F said made him aware that BS was pursuing
claims he considered fictitious and futile and he asked BS to stop their actions.
BS said Mr F had registered 42 claims with them, 32 were still active at the point he asked
them to stop and the other 10 had been cancelled/closed free of charge. As BS said Mr F
had cancelled their agreement they invoiced him for cancellation fees for the 32 missold PPI
or default charge claims which totalled £4,074.30.
Ive looked at BS terms and conditions about cancellation and these say:
You have 14 days from the date of signing these terms to cancel or 14 days from the initial
LOA to cancel each individual claim.
As the LoAs were signed in May 2019, and BS said Mr F didnt cancel the 32 claims until
September 2020, BS considered him to have cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off
period.
The terms and conditions go on to say:
If cancellation is received before settlement is awarded but outside of the 14 day cooling-off
period, our reasonable processing costs will be payable subject to a maximum charge of
£400 plus VAT per ' claim.
The terms and conditions go on to explain how reasonable costs would be calculated:
Our reasonable costs will vary depending on how much work has been completed up to the
point of cancellation/breach; for example cancellation within the first 4 months of a simple
claim could incur a fee of £100 plus VAT, whereas if the matter is complex and takes
longer than one year the fee for each claim could be £400 plus VAT (the maximum per
claim).
BS has said that their cancellation fees would be payable irrespective of whether the claim
would have been successful or not. But their terms and conditions clearly state that if
cancellation is received before settlement. . So, I agree with our investigator thatcancellation fees shouldnt be charged where there isnt any likelihood of success, as there
wouldnt be any likelihood of settlement.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI
claims to be made. Any claim received after the deadline had passed wouldnt have been
accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
When BS contacted Mr F in September 2020 it was on the basis that for several of his
claims the lenders were struggling to find his account details. BS asked Mr F to provide
further details for them to pursue his claim.
The relevant guidance says:
A firm must not make or pursue a claim on behalf of a customer, or advise a customer to
make or pursue a claim, if the firm knows or has reasonable grounds to suspect that the
claim does not have a good arguable base.
I can see for one of Mr Fs lenders, Ill call R told him in February 2020 theyd done an
extensive search of his account and hadnt been able to locate any PPI policies. And for
another, Ill call H told Mr F in September 2019 that theyd been unable to locate any PPI
policies for him. There is also a BS reference on this letter, so Id have expected BS to have
also been made aware by H as they saw BS as Mr Fs representative. For the other claims,
theyd been registered in August 2019 just before the August deadline for making such
claims. As none of the lenders had been able to locate Mr Fs accounts and I havent seen
any communication made between any of the parties for several months. I dont think BS
had a good arguable case for these claims to remain active. And so, they shouldnt have
continued to pursue these claims for Mr F.
The relevant guidance also says that Mr F should have been notified of any material
development in the progress of his claim. I can see another lender L told Mr F in December
2019 that he hadnt taken out a PPI policy on the product and theyd closed his claim. I cant
see that BS updated Mr F that this claim was unsuccessful. But I can see this has been
included in the list of claims they are charging Mr F a cancellation fee of £154.20.
And:
 A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least once
every six months
From BS records I cant see that Mr F was kept updated about the progress of his claims.
There is some activity when the claims were registered but I cant see that BS progressed
Mr Fs claims. I cant see any evidence of other lenders informing BS or Mr F on the status of
these claims, which persuades me that Mr Fs testimony that he didnt have accounts with
these lenders for mis-sold PPI or default charge claims is valid. And given the void of
communication from BS until September 2020 , I again think these claims were speculative
with no likelihood of success.
So, I dont think BS can charge their cancellation fees as I dont think its fair or reasonable
for charges to be applied for speculative claims where there is no likelihood of any
settlement.
Overall, I dont think BS has treated Mr F fairly. I dont think theyve communicated with him
as they should have done. And I think it was unreasonable for them to have charged him
cancellation fees for claims I dont think had a good arguable base for success. So, I intend
to direct BS to remove all of the cancellation charges theyve asked Mr F to pay. I also think
BS has caused Mr F unnecessary trouble, and upset, having had the cancellation feerecovery placed into debt collection with the prospect of legal action being taken against him.
So, I intend to direct BS to pay him £250 for the trouble and upset that this has caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
BS said theyd additional information about the updates they provided to Mr F but didnt ask 
me to consider it. They agreed to waive all the cancellation fee charges.
Mr F made no further comments. 
So, I havent seen any evidence or comments that persuade me to change my thinking from 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Symmetric Systems Limited trading as BankSmart to:
waive all the cancellation fees charged to Mr F, including any amounts added for
debt recovery; and
pay Mr F £250 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman