DRN-2029186
 
The complaint
Mr M says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave him loans 
that he couldnt afford.
What happened
Lending Stream gave Mr M seven loans during the period September 2016  April 2017. 
Heres a table showing some of the main loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest*
Repayment
1 23/09/2016 03/01/2017 6 £100.00 £44.00
2 27/12/2016 14/01/2017 6 £100.00 £71.36
3 03/01/2017 28/03/2017 6 £300.00 £169.60
4 14/01/2017 Loan Still Outstanding 6 £200.00 £212.00
5 01/02/2017 Loan Still Outstanding 6 £240.00 £306.72
6 03/03/2017 Loan Still Outstanding 6 £200.00 £353.12
7 03/04/2017 Loan Still Outstanding 6 £240.00 £340.67
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
Our adjudicator thought that she hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair of Lending Stream 
to have provided loans 1  5. But she said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loan 6 or 
loan 7 to Mr M. She explained why and set out the steps she said Lending Stream should 
take to put things right for Mr M.
Lending Stream reconsidered its position and said that it was willing to accept the outcome 
of our adjudicators findings. Lending Stream sent us details showing the figures it had 
worked out and we forwarded this information to Mr M. 
Theres been an exchange of correspondence about how the settlement our adjudicator 
suggested would work out for Mr M. And now hes seen the figures hes told us that he isnt 
happy with this proposed settlement. In particular, he doesnt feel this settlement gives him 
enough compensation and hes unhappy that Lending Stream would be able to offset the 
refund hes entitled to receive against the amount he still owes the lender. 
Mr M has asked for an ombudsman review, so his complaint comes to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. 
Although Mr M first of all said he was prepared to settle the complaint the way the 
adjudicator recommended, he later changed his mind. I appreciate that once Mr M was able 
to see how the figures worked out, and he understood that Lending Stream was fairly 
entitled to put the refund it owed him towards paying some of the outstanding balance he still 
owed, then he no longer wanted to settle the complaint in the way the adjudicator had 
recommended.
So Ive independently looked at this complaint afresh and having done so, Ive come to the 
same view as our adjudicator  and for the same reasons that the adjudicator explained in 
her view letter. But Ill say a bit more about why I say this  and I hope this is helpful in 
explaining my decision.
Looking at loans 1-3, Ive thought carefully about the information Lending Stream recorded 
for Mr M, including income and expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried 
out. 
Overall, looking at the repayments that Mr M needed to make on these loans, the amounts 
wouldve seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. 
I've taken into account: 
the loan repayment amounts,
what was apparent about Mr Ms circumstances at the time and
the fact that at this early stage Mr M had only a limited borrowing record with Lending 
Stream and it didnt show anything that shouldve reasonably made Lending Stream 
realise that Mr M wasnt able to afford this borrowing.
So I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr M for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first three loans. 
I do think Lending Stream should have looked further into Mr Ms circumstances when he 
took out loans 4 and 5, given the amount of the combined repayments he had to make when 
he took out loan 4, and bearing in mind he hadnt paid loan 3 or loan 4 when he took out 
loan 5. However, I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows 
Lending Stream would have decided not to agree these loans had it done so. 
So Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about loans 1 - 5. 
But like the adjudicator, I dont think Lending Stream shouldve provided loans 6 or 7 to 
Mr M. 
As Lending Stream has accepted our adjudicators view and confirmed it is willing to take the 
steps she suggested to put things right for Mr M, I dont think I need to say more about why 
its fair to uphold these loans. 
And I think the way the adjudicator suggested resolving the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
I say this because its in line with our approach when thinking about whats fair and 
reasonable when Mr M has had the benefit of the money he borrowed and he still hasnt paid 
back what he now owes  even taking into account the refund Lending Stream will pay him.So I think Lending Stream should do what it has now offered to put things right. 
If Mr M would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
Putting things right
If Lending Stream has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if still able to do 
so (as it said it would do when responding to the adjudicators view). Lending Stream should 
then take the following steps. If Lending Stream isnt now able to buy the debts back then it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. remove all interest, fees and charges from the balances on loans 6 and 7 and treat 
any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been repayments of the principal 
B.if this results in Mr M having made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled (this is unlikely 
looking at the figures Ive seen, but Im including this direction in case the 
information I've seen is now out of date and this changes things) 
C. if (as seems more likely) Mr M still owes an outstanding balance in respect of any 
unpaid loans then the amounts calculated in "A" should be used to repay the 
balance remaining outstanding. And Lending Stream should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr M in respect of the amount he still has to pay  as 
it has offered to do
D. remove all adverse entries from Mr Ms credit file for loan 6 once it is repaid (and 
ask any debt purchaser to do the same). 
E. The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing by loan 7 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Lending Stream should remove this loan entirely from Mr Ms 
credit file (and ask any debt purchaser to do the same) once it is repaid (but 
Lending Stream should still remove any adverse information recorded).
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ms complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman