DRN-1398238
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Covea Insurance plc failed to inform it of a payable 
excess when it claimed for repairs to a computer under a business protection insurance 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is brought by Mrs A, a director of G, on its behalf and so I'll refer to her 
throughout this decision.
The policy is underwritten by Covea and its responsible for any claims made on it so Ill refer 
to it throughout this decision. It uses a number of agents to handle its claims and repairs 
processes. When I refer to Coveas actions this includes the actions of these agents. 
Mrs A has a business protection policy that provides cover, under certain circumstances, for 
a range of risks related to running a business.
Mrs As computer was damaged after liquid was spilled on it. She contacted Covea to make 
a claim on the policy. It accepted the claim was covered under the Material Damage 
section.
It arranged for Mrs As computer to be inspected by one of its agents and it was found to be 
repairable. Covea let Mrs A know a £250 excess would be payable before the repairs would 
be carried out. She wasnt happy with this as she said this was the first time shed been 
informed of the excess. She said she wouldn't have proceeded with the claim had she 
known about it as she could have got the repairs done cheaper elsewhere.
Covea said the policy terms made it clear an excess was payable but it paid her £50 to 
apologise as it didnt remind her about the excess earlier in the process.
Mrs A wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to this service. She also said Covea 
had recorded phone calls without her permission. Our investigator considered the evidence 
and concluded that the policy documents made the excess clear and so the £50 Covea had 
offered Mrs A was fair. He also said he didnt think Covea had done anything wrong in 
recording the calls.
Mrs A remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons. I know Mrs A feels very strongly about her complaint and is likely to be 
disappointed by my decision so Ill explain my reasoning.
What the policy saysMy starting point for this review of this complaint is whats detailed in the terms of the policy 
as these set out the agreement between Mrs A and the insurance company. Ive looked 
carefully through the policy terms and these explain that the policyholder will have to pay the 
first part of any claim in the form of an excess. This is in line with most insurance policies. 
The terms go on to explain that for claims, such as this one, involving material damage the 
excess is £250. This is detailed in Section A of the Policy Schedule and I consider the 
wording to be clear and not misleading.
So I think the policy documents make it clear a £250 excess will be charged on this kind of 
claim. This is what Mrs A agreed to when she purchased the policy.
Repairs and the notification of the excess
I know from the file Mrs A feels she should have been informed about the excess before her 
computer was sent away for tests to be carried out. She said she wouldnt have started the 
repair process if shed known about the excess and had the work completed elsewhere for a 
lower cost.
Im mindful here the repairs to the computer havent been undertaken as Mrs A declined to 
pay the excess. Covea made it clear in October 2019 that she could ask for the computer to 
be returned in the same condition it was sent away in and she could arrange for the repairs 
herself, or she could pay the excess and proceed with the claim.
It seems Mrs A hasnt done either of these things and thinks Covea has said she doesnt 
need to pay the excess to have her computer repaired. But I think she may have 
misinterpreted what Covea said in its final response:
You do not need to pay the excess, because your computer has not been repaired. I can 
arrange for [Coveas agent] to return this to you in the same condition that they collected it, 
in order for you to arrange the repair yourself
From this, Mrs A only needs to pay the excess if she wants the repairs undertaken. If she 
wants to avoid the excess and arrange the repairs herself, Covea made it clear it could 
arrange for her computer to be returned unrepaired. 
Im satisfied that Covea clearly stated what Mrs As options were in October 2019. And, in 
the absence of instructions from her, I dont think its responsible for her still being without 
her computer. So it is still with Mrs A to advise Covea which of these options she wishes to 
take.
Covea has said it could have reminded Mrs A sooner about the excess and has paid her £50 
to apologise for this and to cover some of the cost of an alternative computer. Mrs A says 
shes entitled to a higher level of compensation but I disagree. And Im satisfied Covea made 
the excess clear in the policy documents and before she decided whether to proceed with 
the repairs. 
Ive also explained why I dont consider it responsible for the delay in the computer being 
returned to her. So Im not persuaded it should pay Mrs A any more than this or complete 
the repairs to the computer without the excess being paid. In short, I consider its offer fair 
and reasonable.
Recording of callsMrs A has also said that one of Coveas agents breached GDPR rules because her calls 
were recorded without her permission. This isnt something wed be able to consider as part 
of this review. The Information Commissioners Office is the body appointed to consider 
complaints about data privacy so she may wish to follow this up with it. However I would 
comment that this is common practice for businesses of this nature to record calls.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman