DRN-2224789
The complaint
Mr F complains that Civil Service Healthcare Society Limited (CSH) declined his private 
medical insurance claim
What happened
Mr F took out a private medical insurance policy insured by CSH on 26 June 2019. The 
policy was on a moratorium basis. So any pre-existing conditions or related symptoms Mr F 
had in the five years before the policy started arent covered until hes been symptom free 
and not received any medical advice or intervention for two years after the policy started.
On 2 July 2019 Mr F called CSH and told it that on 29 June hed slipped on seaweed at the 
beach and injured his right knee. CSH told him it would need a referral letter from his GP. 
Mr F saw his GP on 4 July 2019. The GPs referral letter of that date said over the past few 
months (Mr F) has been experiencing intermittent shooting pains in his right knee. CSH 
declined the claim as it said the problem with Mr Fs knee began before the policy started.
Mr F said the GPs letter wasnt correct. On 10 July his GP wrote apologising for the 
confusion caused and saying the timescale of a few months was dictated erroneously; she 
hadnt made a note of the timescale of knee pain in the consultation notes, which she 
provided. The GPs letter concluded that As (Mr F) explains, the symptoms only started 
several days prior to this consultation.
CSH still declined the claim saying it was still probable Mr Fs symptoms pre-dated the start 
of the policy.
Mr Fs GP then wrote on 18 July 2019 saying As Mr F explains, the symptoms started on 
29 June, after slipping on seaweed at the beach. CSH still declined the claim. It said the GP 
would have thought it important to mention that the symptoms were due to an acute recent 
event when referring Mr F to an orthopedic consultant if Mr F had told her at consultation. 
There was no medical evidence that the GP saw clear signs of Mr F having an acute recent 
injury and CSH thought the overall medical evidence suggested the symptoms happened 
before the policy started.
Mr F complained to us. He said CSH should accept the information in the GPs third letter 
and pay his claim. He told us hed taken out private medical insurance with another insurer 
in mid-June 2019 which hed cancelled when he took out the CSH policy. He said this 
showed he hadnt been injured already otherwise he would have stayed with the other 
insurer where he didnt have to pay a percentage of the cost, unlike the CSH policy.
Our investigator thought CSH unfairly declined the claim.
CSH disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said:
the short time between Mr F taking out the policy and the claim meant it had to be 
satisfied his symptoms began after the policy started, and it wasnt.
the consultation notes gave the impression that Mr F was unable to manage his 
symptoms over time with his worry that they were starting to affect his ability to do his 
work
Mr Fs GPs third letter wasnt the most compelling as it was written significantly after 
the consultation and the GPs clinical notes hadnt been changed. The GP didnt give 
a medical opinion that the symptoms started on 29 June, she just passed on what 
Mr F told her.
Before this matter came to me for a decision Mr F told us hed now had his knee operation 
on the NHS.
Before I made my decision I asked Mr F to provide us with his up to date medical situation 
and any medical evidence he had in relation to any scan and the operation. I asked what he 
was hoping for CSH to do to resolve his complaint, now hed had his operation. I also asked 
what prompted him to take out private medical insurance in June 2019.
Our investigator recorded that Mr F said he had the operation in July 2019 and initially tried 
to continue work but was off work through pain from August to December 2019. He has his 
own business and believes that by not getting treatment more quickly through CSHs policy 
his ability to earn was affected. He also mentioned the cost of a private consultation he had 
when he had thought he would be covered by his policy.
Mr F said he hadnt received any medical correspondence. Hed had one follow up 
appointment since the operation and the doctor was happy with the outcome and no further 
medical treatment is planned.
Mr F had been thinking about taking out private medical insurance for some time prompted 
by an injury a friend had which left him unable to work for a year. Mr F said he couldnt afford 
to take that risk.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision intending to partly uphold this complaint as I didnt think CSH 
fairly and reasonably declined the claim at the point it did. I said:
The GPs consultation notes of 4 July said:
History Problems with R knee / Intermittent shooting pain medial aspect on 
twisting or if catches on something / no ache / no swelling / (details of 
Mr Fs work) - affecting both
Examination Nil on exam
Comment Would like opinion from orthopedics - worried starting to affect ability 
to do his work - has private insurance, will book appnt at (hospital) and 
let me know when/who with.
The notes dont say when Mr Fs knee pain started. The GP has accepted she made an 
error in her first letter in saying the pain had been over a few months. I think its equally likely 
the GPs comment in her second letter that Mr F had the pain for several days meant the six 
days since Mr F said hed slipped rather than being probable it was a date before the policy 
started.
Mr Fs pain being intermittent could equally apply for the six days from his slip. He said hed 
been off work since the 29 June slip and as his work is very physical I dont think his concern 
as at 4 July about the effect on his work means the problem had probably been ongoing for some time. Thats particularly so when Mr F has his own business for one of his roles so he 
would be concerned even after a short time of not working.
CSH says the GPs third letter just reports what Mr F told her about when the symptoms 
started, but thats so for many claims. I understand why CSH is surprised not to see mention 
of a recent slip in the first GP referral letter. But as Mr F told CSH about the event two days 
before he saw the GP theres no reason why he wouldnt have mentioned it to his GP.
Mr Fs claim was only a few days after the policy started. So I understand why CSH had 
concerns that Mr F had knee pain before he took out the policy. Ive seen evidence that Mr F 
started an application for private medical insurance about two weeks before he took out the 
CSH policy. But I dont think that alone is persuasive evidence as it could mean he already 
had a knee problem.
However, once CSH received Mr Fs GP third letter clarifying that Mr Fs symptoms started 
after hed taken out the policy I think it would have been reasonable for CSH to cover Mr F 
being referred for a scan and any accompanying consultation. CSH would then have had 
detailed medical information about whether Mr Fs knee pain was due to an acute injury, as 
he described, or due to a longer term problem. If the latter CSH could have reasonably 
declined to cover further treatment.
As that didnt happened I have to decide what CSH has to do to put things right. Ive no 
basis to say it should pay any compensation to Mr F for any lost earnings. Ive no medical 
evidence about was wrong with Mr Fs knee and it may be that once hed had the scan 
before his operation CSH could have declined to cover further treatment. Even if thats not 
the case Mr F had his operation in July 2019, and he probably wouldnt have got the 
operation done privately much quicker.
Mr F said it was after the operation that he was in pain and hes mentioned to us during our 
investigation that he wanted CSH to pay for physiotherapy. The policy covers up to £350 for 
physiotherapy but again theres no medical evidence it would have been reasonable for CSH 
to cover that.
Mr Fs says he paid for a private consultation he thought CSH would pay. In response to my 
provisional decision he needs to provide details of what the consultation was for and 
evidence that he paid for the consultation. If it was a consultation where he had a pre- 
operation scan CSH should pay for it subject to the remaining policy terms and limits.
I think Mr F has been inconvenienced by CSH not covering an initial scan to get medical 
evidence about the cause of his knee pain so it could make an informed decision about 
cover. In all the circumstances its fair for CSH to pay Mr F £250 compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr F didnt agree. He sent emails between him and his GP and a medical letter from the 
private orthopaedic consultant. In summary he made the following points:
he had his operation in November 2019, not July, and was off work sick since 
August. He thought if CSH had covered his claim he would have had the operation 
sooner. Hed returned to work one month after his operation so he said hed missed 
three months work by CSH not accepting the claim
he wanted CSH to cover his loss of earnings. He said the operation would have cost 
£6,000 so he thought a fair amount for CSH to pay for his inconvenience of not having the operation sooner and loss of earnings would be at least £3,000 
there was no evidence he had the knee problem before he took out the policy, apart 
from a mistake from a busy GP which she tried to put right. He said the emails from 
the GP to him said shed made a mistake
the consultants letter didnt say if the consultant thought the problem was due to a 
recent incident or was a prolonged injury. Hed done his own general research about 
a meniscus tear which said it could be caused by a forceful twist which he said 
supported his explanation about how the problem occurred 
he was still waiting for the invoice for the consultation, which hes already paid
he wanted to know whether his knee would be covered by the policy in the future.
We sent the consultants report to CSH and asked for its comments. It said for the type of 
knee pain Mr F described it was unlikely an orthopaedic consultant would provide any 
information about when the injury occurred which is why it considered the evidence from the 
GP about when the injury occurred to be so important. CSH said the GPs notes and the 
GPs initial letter, before  Mr F asked her to change the date, meant it was much more 
probable his symptoms existed before he took out the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the new information the parties have provided but I havent changed my  
mind about what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. Ill explain why.
The consultants letter reports how Mr F told the consultant the injury happened and says 
Mr F denies previous history of injury (or) symptoms. He had medial meniscal pathology,  
in effect a cartilage tear. The consultant recommended an MR scan, which Mr F had through 
the NHS. Mr F couldnt get any information about that scan. The consultant hasnt given an 
opinion in the letter about whether the problem was due to a recent incident or a prolonged 
injury. So CSH wouldnt have had any additional medical evidence to assist it in deciding 
whether to cover the claim.
Mr F says his research shows his problem is often caused by a forceful twist but Ive also 
done some general research and there are several potential causes for his type of injury, 
some being long term issues. So I dont think the type of knee problem he had must mean it 
happened as he said. 
As Ive said, I understand why CSH had concerns that Mr F had knee pain before he took 
out the policy given the GPs first letter to CSH said he had the knee problem intermittently 
for the past few months, well before he took out the policy, and his claim was only a few 
days into the policy. But I also have to take into account the GPs third letter to CSH which 
says Mr F said the symptoms started after the policy started and the GPs emails to Mr F 
apologising that she made the error. 
However, even if I said CSH should have met Mr Fs claim I dont think theres any basis for 
me to say CSH should pay him the £3,000 hes seeking. I note Mr F had his operation in 
November 2019, Im sorry we misunderstood the date. But I still dont think the operation 
would have happened much sooner if CSH covered the claim.The consultants letter to the GP was dated end of July 2019 and recommended local 
measures such as ibuprofen as well as a MR scan and if the matter didnt improve a clinical 
review with the MR scan. That all would have taken some time. Ive no evidence that Mr F 
would have had his operation three months earlier through CSH and no evidence about the 
level of his lost earnings. And I dont generally say that an insurer must pay for lost earnings 
in such a situation unless there are exceptional circumstances, and I dont think there are in 
this case. The awards I give for distress and inconvenience arent based on the amount an 
insurer saves by not paying a claim.
Taking all the circumstances into account, I satisfied £250 compensation is still a fair amount 
for CSH to pay Mr F for his distress and inconvenience and CSH should pay Mr F the costs 
of the private consultation he paid for, subject to the policy terms and limits, once hes 
provided evidence hes paid. Im satisfied the consultation was related to the pre-operation 
scan as it recommended a scan.
I cant say now whether CSH must cover future issues Mr F has with his knee. If he has any 
further problems that he wants CSH to cover hell need to make a claim. CSH should assess 
the claim subject to the policy terms and the medical evidence available at that time. If the 
parties cant agree about cover for any future claim Mr F can ultimately complain to us about 
that matter. 
Putting things right
Civil Service Healthcare Society Limited must pay Mr F £250 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience it caused and the costs of the private consultation Mr F paid for, subject 
to the policy terms and limits, once Mr F has provided evidence he paid the cost.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Civil Service Healthcare Society Limited to pay:
Mr F £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience it caused, and
the costs of the private consultation Mr F paid for, subject to the policy terms and 
limits, once Mr F has provided evidence that he paid the cost.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman