DRN-4457937
The complaint
Mr M complains that TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED (TU) failed to dispute
incorrect information on his credit report.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. I did this because I wanted to give 
both parties the chance to respond with anything else they wanted me to consider before I 
came to my final decision on the matter. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
In June 2022, Mr M says he noticed TU were reporting a missed payment in relation to an
account with a firm I will refer to as P. Mr M says he didnt have an account with P and he
hadnt missed a payment either  and so he tried to raise a dispute with TU.
Mr M says that TU told him to speak to P himself, which he felt was unreasonable given that
TUs own website states that it will dispute incorrect information on his behalf. Mr M was
unhappy with the tone of TUs response to him  stating that it was unprofessional and
sarcastic.
Mr M said that after receiving TUs unprofessional email, he did get in touch with P to find
out what had happened. P explained that it had taken over another firm that went into
administration almost ten years prior  and Mr M says he did have an account with this firm,
although he hadnt ever been late in making a payment to them. P acknowledged that it was
reporting a missed payment against him in error, and Mr M was under the impression that it
had contacted TU to let it know.
TU responded to Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that the information provided
by its Dispute Team was correct  and it confirmed the entry Mr M had disputed wasnt
showing on his credit report.
Mr M wasnt happy with TUs response. He confirmed that his complaint was about TU
refusing to dispute the entry and that its response to him was impertinent. Mr M also
referred to law, in saying that TU had allowed defamatory statements to be made about him.
The Investigator considered what both parties said, and thought the complaint should be
upheld, and TU should pay Mr M £200. The Investigator thought that TU should have done
more to help Mr M dispute the entry on his credit file, at the time he raised the issue.
Mr M accepted the Investigators view, but TU didnt. It said that P hadnt ever been reporting
information on Mr Ms credit file  and so it couldnt raise a dispute for information that didnt
exist. It also said that it had asked Mr M for information about his dispute, but it didnt get a
response.
Before coming to my provisional decision on this case, I asked Mr M for a copy of the email
TU sent to him on 22 June 2022, which he has kindly provided.
I also wrote to TU to ask some more questions about the information it was reporting about
Mr M in relation to P. It has now said that its possible it was reporting information about P,
but if that information has now been deleted, it would be very difficult to find.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
It is the role of a credit reference agency to dispute information with a firm, where it has been
told it is inaccurate. I can see Mr M disputed information relating to P. TUs response to this
was that Mr M should raise this directly with P first. I dont accept that this is an appropriate
course of action, and TU could and should have done this on Mr Ms behalf at the time. I
note that TU did, on 22 June 2022 ask Mr M for details of the dispute he wanted to raise,
however, for reasons I will go onto to explain, Im not surprised that Mr M didnt feel
comfortable providing this information to TU  and instead contacted P directly himself.
I understand that TU has now accepted its possible it was reporting information about Mr M
in relation to an account with P. Ive seen evidence provided by Mr M, which shows that P
has accepted that it had made a mistake in the reporting  and it said it would update the
credit reference agencies. I also find it unlikely that Mr M would raise a dispute about an
entry on his credit file that simply didnt exist. And so, I think it more likely than not that TU
were reporting a missed payment in relation to an account Mr M had previously held with a
firm relating to P. Although I note that this is, correctly, no longer being reported.
On 22 June 2022, TU sent Mr M an email relating to the dispute he was trying to make 
which is also the email that Mr M has referred to as being impertinent. I have copied a
section of the email below:
I am surprised you say that you do not accept that it is for you to contact P... We do not
generate information here at TransUnion. We only hold financial account information which
is supplied to us via regular updates from lending organisations. As a result, We [sic] cannot
make any changes to a financial record without the lender's authorisation.
You also say that we are making a statement concerning you that is defamatory in that we
are repeating a statement that is both untrue and adverse to your interests. If you feel so
strongly about this, then you should be wanting to sort this out with the source of the
information which is P, but surprisingly you have chosen not to contact them! Naturally, if a
company has it recorded that someone has recently missed a payment to them when the
person does not have, and has never had an account with the company, it is expected that
the person will want to contact the company to sort things out!
You stated that it may be that we are entitled to rely on statements by third parties, but, only
until we are advised of the truth, and once the truth has been pointed out to us, we have no
right to repeat the defamatory statement - at the very least without checking. The questions
to ask here are: What is the truth? Who is speaking this truth? What evidence is presented
to help us validate the truth?...
On reading this, I was surprised and disappointed by the inappropriate and unprofessional
tone of TUs email to Mr M. Not only is the tone, as Mr M refers to it sarcastic, it also seems
to suggest that it is up to Mr M to sort out the inaccurate information being reported about
him  which, as Ive explained above, TU have a responsibility to do. I note from the rest ofthe email (not copied here) that TU did request details of the dispute, however, given the
prior contents of the email, unsurprisingly, Mr M disputed the matter directly with P.
TU has fallen short of what I would have expected in terms of process and customer service.
It was initially unhelpful in not raising a dispute on Mr Ms behalf when it should have, and it
has sent him correspondence which was unnecessarily unprofessional. For these reasons, I
intend to order TU to increase the compensation award to £350.
I have noted that Mr M now feels that compensation of £2,500 would be fairer. However, I
currently find the £350 I intend to award to be a fair amount for the impact TUs errors have
had on him. This award is also in line with this services normal approach to a distress and
inconvenience award.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision to say he accepted it. And TU responded to say 
it had nothing further to add.
Because of this, I see no reason to depart from the findings made in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, TU should put things right for Mr M by 
paying him £350 for the distress and inconvenience TUs actions have caused him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in this decision, my decision is to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I order 
TRANSUNION INTERNATIONAL UK LIMITED to put things right for Mr M by doing what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman