DRN-2825951
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs A complain that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to cancel their mortgage protection 
policies in 2014, after they had agreed to new replacement policies. They now also submit 
that the new policies were mis-sold to them and those premiums should be refunded.  
What happened
In 2013, Mr S and Mrs A met with an adviser from Lloyds to discuss their protection 
requirements. They took out two individual life and critical illness policies with each having a 
sum assured and term matching their documented joint mortgage liability. 
In 2014, they met with the Lloyds adviser again and took out a further four policies, this time 
for lifestyle protection. These policies also comprised both life and critical illness cover. 
However, Mr S and Mrs A say they took the 2014 policies as replacements for the 2013 
policies. In 2020, they discovered the 2013 policies had not been cancelled and complained 
to Lloyds that they had been paying for more policies than they needed.  
Lloyds looked at both sales and considered their suitability. It partially upheld the complaint 
in a final response letter dated 16 November 2020.
It said in respect of the 2013 sale, the adviser had not justified why two single policies were 
recommended to protect a joint mortgage lending. Lloyds felt Mr S and Mrs A ought to have 
been proposed a joint policy. On that basis, it calculated a partial refund of premiums to Mr S 
and Mrs A of £1,130.64  that being a refund of the premiums theyd paid over and above a 
joint policy, plus 8% net interest.
In respect of the 2014 sale, Lloyds said that the advice had been reasonable in Mr S and 
Mrs As circumstances. The policies taken out in 2014 had a different purpose  they were 
not for mortgage protection. They had lower sums assured because they were for family and 
lifestyle protection, which had been discussed in detail with Mr S and Mrs A, who were 
recorded as having a young child.     
Mr S and Mrs A remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service.   
An investigator initially looked at the jurisdiction of the complaint regarding this services time 
limits as Lloyds said Mr S and Mrs A became aware of their concerns upon receipt of an 
annual policy summary in 2015. However, Lloyds then consented to the complaint being 
allowed to continue after Mrs S explained that he believed the time limit should run six years 
from the date the second policies were taken out  that being October 2014. 
Mr S made some further submissions. He explained that the adviser in 2014 had proactively 
contacted him and Mrs A to see if their existing cover was still suitable for their needs. They 
were told their 2013 policies would be recalculated. Based on Lloyds response now, Mr S 
said he and Mrs A felt they should be returned premiums for all of the 2014 policies with 
interest.  
The investigator looked at the merits of the complaint and noted that he did not think it 
should succeed. He realised that Mr S and Mrs A said they signed cancellation papers for 
the 2013 policies but the insurer did not receive any such cancellation. In any event, he felt 
that both sales had been reasonable  the policies were for different mortgage and lifestyle 
protection purposes and sensible in Mr S and Mrs As circumstances. 
Mr S said that he and Mrs A did not agree with the investigator and they wanted the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. They added that they felt they had been 
misguided into taking out the 2014 policies. They also asked for a complete copy of the 
information Lloyds had on file, which was supplied to them by our investigator. Following 
this, no further submissions were made.  
Lloyds had no further comments to make either. The complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that my decision will not be the outcome Mr S and Mrs A have hoped for. However, I 
have reviewed matters afresh and I am also of the view that this complaint should not 
succeed. In summary, my findings are:
I note Mr S and Mrs A do not question the suitability of the original 2013 policies as 
protection for their mortgage liability;
I agree that one joint policy was appropriate for a joint mortgage debt as this would 
have been cleared in the event of either party passing away and there was no 
justification for two policies in the assessment of their needs in 2013;
I have therefore looked at the 2014 sale on the basis that Mr S and Mrs A say these 
policies were mis-sold as they were both unnecessary and the adviser misled them 
into believing they offered replacement cover;   
while I have no reason to dispute Mr S and Mrs As recollection, I must also weigh up 
Lloyds version of events as well as any other evidence such as contemporaneous 
documentation from the time;
where there is conflicting evidence, I have concluded what I believe is most likely, on 
the balance of probabilities;
the documentation issued to Mr S and Mrs A of 17 October 2014 was correctly 
addressed and provided a suitability letter explaining the justification for the 
recommendations along with an accompanying protection analysis report;
there is no evidence in the documentation issued to Mr S and Mrs A that the policies 
were intended to replace the 2013 existing cover;
in fact to the contrary, it was set out by the adviser that I have not provided advice 
in the following areas: Protecting your borrowings against death or critical illness 
because, according to the information you have provided, you have sufficient cover in 
place for this need;
the documentation confirms they underwent a protection review, but with a view to 
looking at wider family and lifestyle needs and the adviser made many 
recommendations on that basis;
Mr S and Mrs A both refused some of the recommendations (such as income 
protection cover) and revised the proposed sum assured for family protection, as well 
as instructing the adviser to reduce the term of the new policies down from a 
suggested retirement age to when their child had reached adulthood;
while I appreciate they attended the sales meeting with their young child, I consider 
they had time to reflect on the information sent to them;the policies were administered by Scottish Widows, Lloyds could not have cancelled 
the 2013 policies for Mr S or Mrs A;
Scottish Widows wrote to both Mr S and Mrs A to confirm their policies had come into 
force in letters dated 23 October 2014  those letters set out clearly how you took 
out this policy to help protect your family and lifestyle;
I believe Mr S and Mrs A could reasonably have concluded from this that the policies 
were not intended to replace their mortgage protection;
even if that was not the case, the sums assured for the 2014 policies were notably 
less than the outstanding mortgage liability and offered a different type (level not 
decreasing) of cover  they were not set up to offer mortgage protection;
insurances such as life, income protection, and critical illness cover are a prudent 
step to take to provide security for both financial liabilities and wider family protection, 
particularly where applicants have dependants;
the adviser was therefore not unreasonable in proposing lifestyle protection;
Mr S and Mrs A could have refused the recommendations if they wished to do so;
I cannot see any clear evidence that Lloyds is responsible for the 2013 policies 
remaining in force;
Mr S and Mrs A have had the benefit of the insurance to date, so, they could 
reasonably have pursued a claim under the policies if required;
in any event, I believe the recommendations (save for the issue of joint policies in 
2013) were reasonable in the circumstances. 
For the above reasons, I do not believe this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman