DRN-2373654
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complain that they were mis-sold a mortgage protection policy by Barclays 
Bank Plc, alongside their mortgage lending in 1996.  
To resolve their complaint, Mrs and Mr L want to be refunded all of the premiums they have 
paid for the policy, with interest.  
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs and Mr L complained to Barclays. They said they believed they had 
been mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) when taking out joint mortgage lending 
with Barclays in December 1996. 
They explained that the policy contained decreasing life assurance that they did not want or 
need, yet Barclays had insisted that they take it out as a compulsory requirement of their 
mortgage lending. This was despite both of them holding adequate life assurance provisions 
already. The policy was cancelled in 2001. 
In January 2020, Mrs and Mr L brought their complaint to this service. They said they had 
yet to receive a reply to their complaint.  
Barclays initially submitted that it did not think the complaint had been pursued within time. 
However, it subsequently agreed that this service could consider the complaint and said it 
had no further objection to the complaint continuing.  
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but did not think it should succeed. He said 
that while he recognised Mrs and Mr L may have held some cover already, this differed to 
the new term and amount of the proposed lending. He also did not think it was an 
unreasonable proposal for Barclays to require that a protection policy be taken out, as this 
was a requirement of lending at that time. 
Mrs and Mr L disagreed. They noted that the investigator had explained that the cover was a 
term assurance policy, but Barclays had historically referred to it as mortgage PPI. Mrs and 
Mr L said they would not have chosen to sign up to the policy if Barclays had not insisted 
that it was necessary in order to be offered the mortgage. It was not made clear that if they 
had alternative cover they could have used their existing policies rather than being coerced 
into buying an unnecessary policy.
Mrs and Mr L also said that they had policy documentation from their existing life assurance 
provisions, and these provided greater cover than the mortgage lending. They also both had 
sickness and death benefits attached to their respective jobs. These benefits outlasted the 
mortgage, as they both remained in their employment until retirement. Mrs L said that in her 
case, the specific nature of her work meant that death in service benefits could carry from 
one job to another, so even if she had decided to work elsewhere in the same field, the 
benefits would have remained in place.  
Finally, Mrs and Mr L felt it was unfair of the investigator to speculate that theyd have 
wanted to have a lump sum life assurance payment for their beneficiaries over and above 
their mortgage lending. They said that wasnt the case. The recognised that at the time, 
Barclays was within its rights to insist that they have life assurance, but it should have 
accepted their other insurance policies instead of charging them £114.29 per month on top 
of the £133.06 they were already paying for the existing cover.
The investigator asked Mrs and Mr L if they could supply the relevant information about their 
existing provisions.  He then issued a further view where he maintained that he didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. Mrs L had been able to supply policy documentation for the 
larger of the two policies and evidence of the smaller policy. However, these were not term 
assurance policies. The larger policy was a maximum cover whole of life policy which had 
begun in 1988. Since the mortgage was sought in 1996, the investigator did not believe 
Barclays had acted unfairly in recommending life assurance as the existing policy would be 
subject to reviews on the sum assured from 1998 onwards.  
In respect of Mrs and Mr Ls employment provisions, the investigator did not think it was 
reasonable to use hindsight to determine if Barclays had acted fairly in 1996. He took the 
view that employment circumstances could change  and that holding of death in service 
benefits did not mean that Barclays could not or should not recommend security for the 
mortgage in the form of a term assurance policy.  
Mrs L said she and Mr L still disagreed. They said that they had exchanged on their property 
before the term assurance policy was in place so it cannot have been as important as was 
suggested. Further, she felt that Barclays ought to have been able to show some flexibility 
around their existing whole of life policy rather than merely propose that new life assurance 
be taken out.  
Though Mrs L couldnt locate 1996 figures, she supplied evidence of a 2008 statement 
relating to her employment benefits, which at £125,000 exceeded the mortgage liability. She 
also provided confirmation of Mr Ls pension benefits as at 2012  which, though lower in 
1996 would still have provided her with the means to pay off the mortgage had he passed 
away during the term.  
Mrs and Mr L said they disagreed with the investigators reasoning and they wanted the 
matter to be passed to an ombudsman. Barclays said it had nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as our investigator. Though I know Mrs 
and Mr L will be disappointed, I do not believe this complaint should succeed.  
I can appreciate why Mrs and Mr L initially took the view that their policy might have been a 
type of payment protection insurance. However, the policy was not a PPI policy, and I can 
see Mrs and Mr L are aware of that now. Their life assurance policy, in return for continued 
payments of a monthly premium over the policy term, provided a lump sum payment (the 
sum assured) broadly matching that of their outstanding capital repayment mortgage should 
either of them have passed away during the term. At that point, the policy would then cease.  
Mrs and Mr L do not dispute that holding insurance of this nature is reasonable. Barclays 
has confirmed that taking out life assurance was a condition of mortgage lending at the time 
Mrs and Mr L sought their mortgage. However, Mrs and Mr L feel that Barclays ought to 
have reviewed their existing provisions and accepted they held sufficient protection, rather than proposing a further joint decreasing term assurance policy.  
The policy that Mrs and Mr L took out was a suitable one for the adviser to have 
recommended insofar as it matched the amount of their lending, the agreed term and it was 
set up to decrease broadly in line with the capital repayment mortgage (as opposed to a 
level term assurance policy where the sum assured remains the same, which would likely 
have a greater cost).  
The term assurance policy was cancelled in 2001. Because of the passage of time since the 
policy was cancelled, Barclays no longer retains evidence relating to the policy. That is to be 
expected, since it has destroyed any data it holds about Mrs and Mr Ls policy, in 
accordance with data protection legislation.
I cannot therefore make findings on what considerations Barclays adviser ought to have 
made when proposing the policy. All Im able to review is the evidence from both parties in 
terms of their recollections, and the information Mrs L has been able to supply our 
investigator about their other policies. That being said, I agree with our investigator that the 
provisions Mrs and Mr L said they had in place were not comparable or as directly suitable 
as taking out life assurance for the lending.  
Mrs L has explained that she and Mr L held two joint whole of life policies, with combined 
sums assured of £160,000. The larger of the two had a sum assured of £120,000 and it is 
this policy that Mrs L has been able to retrieve more information about.  
Having looked at the policy, I agree that it wasnt a suitable alternative when compared to a 
life assurance policy for the lending. That policy began in 1988 with the premium and life 
cover levels only guaranteed for the first ten years. The policy terms explained that:
POLICY REVIEW
The amount of life cover is guaranteed for the first ten years of the plan. After this, 
regular reviews will take place. If the assumptions originally made for the purpose of 
calculating your premiums have been exceeded, you can choose whether to increase 
the life cover or maintain the existing level allowing the investment value to 
accumulate. If the investment return has been less than that assumed, the existing 
level of life cover could be maintained by increasing your premium. Alternatively, your 
life cover will be reduced. 
These types of policies require reviews to assess whether the sum assured can be 
maintained long term. If growth rates being used are lower than those originally assumed 
some years prior, then this can affect whether the business believes the policys sum 
assured will be sustainable. When these reviews are undertaken, a business will look at the 
investment value, performance, mortality rates and use projections for future investment 
performance. 
Further, though maximum cover policies give the highest level of life cover for the chosen 
premium, this usually means that most of the premium will go towards paying for the life 
cover. Only a relatively small portion of the premium will be left over to be invested. On this 
basis, these types of whole of life policies are more likely to fail a policy review than a 
standard cover policy.
Given the policy was two years from its first review (and subject to further reviews 
thereafter), it did not provide the same level of protection that a life assurance policy would, if 
premiums were maintained for the policy term. I dont consider Barclays unreasonable in not 
allowing these policies to meet its particular condition of requiring suitable life cover in order to provide mortgage lending. Similarly, I do not consider the death benefits of Mr Ls pension 
provisions as suitable cover either.
I realise Mrs L has made several points about the death benefits that come with working in 
her particular field, where she could have easily gained alternative employment had her 
particular job ceased. But, death in service benefits are not generally considered a suitable 
means of ensuring a mortgage is protected in the event of death, since employment benefits 
can be involuntarily lost. I know Mrs L felt that was unlikely, but it was not an impossibility. 
Redundancy is not the only reason by which employment could end. For example, a 
persons health may prevent being able to undertake gainful employment. I know that both 
Mrs and Mr L remained in their particular jobs from 1996 until they went on to retire, but that 
is said by looking back using hindsight. To be fair to both parties, I need to consider what 
ought to have happened in 1996 when determining if Barclays has behaved fairly.
 
Though I realise Mrs and Mrs L feel strongly about the matter now, they did not have to 
accept or proceed with Barclays as a mortgage lender if they felt it was acting unfairly by the 
requirement to hold suitable life assurance. In any event, I dont consider Barclays to have 
unreasonably applied that condition in these circumstances. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman