DRN-2530271
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is made against The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited
(Royal London). Mr B says Royal London mis-advised him when it recommended that he opt
out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). He says that it ought to have
advised him to join his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS). 
What happened
Mr B opted out of SERPS in 1990. At the time of his application he was 22 years old. He was
in employment earning £10,400 but not a member of his OPS.
Mr B complained to Royal London in 2019. Royal London didnt uphold the complaint. It said
that the advice to contract-out of SERPS wasnt unsuitable as his circumstances met the
relevant criteria for age and earnings.
Mr B responded and said that the crux of his complaint was that he wasnt advised to join the
OPS that was available to him. He explained that he had joined in 1999 and so he had lost
out on nine years membership which was a substantial loss to him as the OPS was a final
salary scheme.
Royal London didnt change its position, it said that Mr B would have been made aware of
the OPS when he started his employment. He would have been eligible to join after three
months but had chosen not to. There were no notes on the file about why he had chosen not
to join the OPS sooner and starting the SERPS policy wouldnt prevent him joining the OPS
later.
Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. An investigator considered the
complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. He said that the SERPS policy wasnt
unsuitable as Mr B met the relevant criteria for contracting out. He didnt think the adviser
was obliged to advise on the OPS. The application documented that Mr B wasnt in the OPS
which suggested that it was discussed, and he accepted that he had been aware of it when
he started his employment and so the investigator didnt think that being referred to it would
have made any difference.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the adviser ought to have acted in his best interests and
categorically recommended the OPS. He had expected to be advised holistically and the
adviser had failed in his fiduciary responsibility.
I made a provisional decision. I decided that the complaint should be upheld. I said the 
following.
This decision focusses on Mr Bs complaint that he was not advised to join the OPS that was
available to him. I agree that, when considered in isolation, the advice to contract-out of
SERPS wasnt unsuitable. Mr B doesnt appear to contest that, and I think hes made it clear
that the crux of his complaint is the failure to recommend that he join the OPS.
So Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs situation and the advisers actions at the time of the
advice in 1990, and whether the advice should have been different.
The individual adviser knew Mr B as his parents were customers. Mr B says that there had
been a number of conversations with the adviser as he visited his parents home regularly to
collect insurance premiums. But there is only one documented piece of advice and that is
from 1990. The application form that was completed at that time recorded that Mr B had an
OPS available to him. I think that the adviser ought to have established whether Mr B was
eligible to join the OPS, or at least suggested that he investigate his options. An OPS often
offers valuable benefits, especially a defined benefit scheme as was the case here, and I
consider that the adviser probably knew that, or certainly ought to have known that, and
recommended some investigation by Mr B.
Notwithstanding my comments below as to reasons why membership of an OPS might not
have been suitable for Mr B at that time, I think that if any investigation had been made of
the benefits that the OPS provided, it would then have been very likely that the adviser
would have identified that Mr B should consider joining it. The adviser was obliged to act in
Mr Bs best interests, to exercise due skill, care and diligence and to deal fairly with him.
If there was any good reason for Mr B not to join the OPS, such as affordability of the
members contribution, or if he anticipated only a short period of employment, (and I note Mr
Bs evidence that there was none) I would also have expected to see some documentary
evidence of that. But this is absent from the records. The fact-find suggests he was single,
without dependents and had no mortgage liability. It also records that he had some savings
and was continuing to save at the time.
Whilst Mr B may have known of the availability of the OPS from the time that he had started
the employment, I dont think that is the same as having the benefits highlighted to him by a
professional adviser. Mr B was only 22 years old and I doubt he had any significant
knowledge or experience of pensions. I doubt it wouldve been at the forefront of his mind,
but he had decided to take advice and he did follow the advice he was given.
So, I think that being directed to consider the benefits of the OPS would have been
significant to him, and once he knew of the benefits available, I think he would most probably
have joined. I note that Mr B did actually join the OPS in 1999, and I think its likely that he
would have joined it in 1990 if the adviser had made him aware of the benefits that the OPS
offered, as I think he should have done.
I set out how redress should be calculated.
Royal London said that it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Royal London has said it has nothing to add to my provisional decision. I see no reason to 
change my provisional conclusions. I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
I consider that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far 
as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the failings in the advice. I consider 
he would have joined the OPS in 1990. Royal London should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If my decision remains the same, and a payment into the pension isnt possible or has
protection or allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after
making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20 per
cent. So making a notional deduction of 15 per cent overall from the loss adequately reflects
this. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited must calculate 
and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman