DRN-2168971
The complaint
Mrs S complained to NCI Insurance Services Ltd (NCI) as appointed representatives of 
Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc that the premiums for her pet insurance policies have been 
increased unfairly.
Background
For ease I will refer to NCI in this decision.
NCI have been the administrators of Mrs S pet insurance policies since renewal in May 
2015. They are not the underwriters of the policies.
In 2019 Mrs S complained about the significant increase in her premiums which increased
again, at renewal in 2020. She says the size of the increases are unfair especially 
considering she is a pensioner with no way of increasing her income. She says that the 
policies are becoming unaffordable, but she cant go elsewhere for cover as one of her dogs 
has an ongoing condition. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NCI are the administrators of Mrs S policies and not the underwriters  so they do not set 
the price of her policies. But they are responsible for the information given to Mrs S about 
her policies  from when they began to administer them. 
I acknowledge that NCI were not responsible for the information Mrs S was given when she 
first took out her policies. But in 2015, when NCI took on Mrs S policies, the relevant rules 
about what a business should do could be found in ICOBS Insurance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook. Amongst other things, NCI needed to take reasonable steps to give customers 
appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that 
the customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements proposed. This 
includes drawing the customers attention to and highlighting the main provisions of the 
policy and the significant limitations and exclusions. This rule doesnt just apply at the point 
of sale, it also applies at all of the different stages of a contract  including when renewals 
are proposed.
Lifetime policies are usually more expensive than standard policies as they provide a
greater level of cover. But there are also different considerations surrounding the long-term
cost and cover for customers with these policies, as the cost doesnt stay the same for the 
life of the policy and will generally increase each year at renewal, as the pet gets older and 
the cost of veterinary treatment goes up. The cost can also increase due to claims, changes 
in insurance premium tax or if an insurer re-evaluates the risk. Theres no limit to how high 
the cost could be. 
I recognise it wouldnt be possible for NCI to tell Mrs S exactly what was going to happen 
with the price of her policies. But I think she needed clear information about the potential 
long-term cost implications, so she could understand that she might end up in the position 
she is now in  with policies that are becoming unaffordable for her. As the policies were 
lifetime insurance, she understandably expected to keep it for the rest of her dogs lives. 
She needed clear information to properly understand the policies she was agreeing to 
continue with  so she could make an informed choice. 
But, having looked at the information NCI gave Mrs S when they took over the policies, I 
dont think they gave her clear enough information about the potential long-term costs.
NCI have provided a copy of the policy document Mrs S would have been sent in 2015. I can 
see it says when further periods of insurance are offered the premium may change. But I 
dont think Mrs S should have had to read through a long document to find this information 
out  it should have been drawn to her attention. And even if it had, I dont think theres 
enough information to make the long-term risk that the cost of the policy could rise by a 
significant amount clear. 
Where I find something has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it
hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out.
Mrs S chose to take out pet insurance, so it seems she wanted some type of cover for her 
dogs. And as she took out lifetime policies it suggests she wanted the greater level of cover 
they provided. When NCI took over Mrs S policies one of her dogs already had received 
treatment for a condition. So I think its likely she would have still have continued with the 
cover, even if NCI had given her better information about the potential long-term costs. As 
otherwise she would have lost the continuous cover for her dogs condition. 
But I do think better information about the policies wouldve meant that Mrs S wasnt so
shocked or upset when the cost increased as it did  instead this would have been
something she would have known could happen and have prepared for. 
She is now in a position she didnt expect to be in  with her policies becoming unaffordable 
and so having to make the difficult decision about what to do. She has a dog with an ongoing 
condition, so is unlikely to find a policy to cover that elsewhere. And she has no way of 
increasing her income as she is now a pensioner. 
I think the lack of clear information provided by NCI has caused Mrs S significant trouble and 
upset. So I think they should pay her £600 as compensation for this.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc should pay Mrs S £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman