DRN-4034096
The complaint
Mrs F says BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as ALPHERA Financial Services 
and who Ill call Alphera, are asking her to pay more than she agreed for the credit theyve 
supplied.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mrs F has been represented by her son in her complaint but as Mrs F is named on the 
finance agreement Ill refer only to her in this decision. I mean no disrespect to her 
representative when doing so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs F, but I dont think Alphera have done anything wrong here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs F acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Mrs F has provided a signed copy of the finance agreement showing repayments of £268.91 
and an APR of 5.9%. But Alphera have provided another agreement, that they say is signed 
by Mrs F, and in which the monthly payment is £306.36, and the APR rate is 11.9%.
Theres no suggestion that Mrs F is responsible for both agreements, so I need to decide 
which agreement is most likely to be the agreement Mrs F entered to fund her car lease.
The agreement version numbers on the top right corner of each page demonstrate that there 
have been several iterations of the agreement.
The agreement page on which the details of the financial arrangement are set out (page 1) is 
unsigned, but signatures are required on page 2 of the agreement.
Version 1 of the agreement that Mrs F relies on, and that requires repayments of £268.91, is 
signed on page 2 by both Mrs F and the business representative.
Theres no page 2 of version 2 of the finance agreement, that the business rely on and that 
requires repayments of £306.36. The second page the business have provided, and that is 
signed, is labelled version 1.
So, I accept that Alphera have been unable to provide a signed copy of the finance 
agreement they say Mrs F is bound to.
However, Im persuaded there is sufficient additional evidence available to demonstrate its 
likely that Mrs F did agree to the terms Alphera say she did. For the following reasons:
The broker has confirmed payments were set at £306.36 per month and cant locate 
details of a lower figure being agreed.
Alphera have also been able to supply copies of the Welcome Letter that sets out 
payments of £306.36.
Statements show that payments of £306.36 were being made and I think its likely 
Mrs F would have complained earlier had these been disputed.
Its unclear why a version 2 would be required, or why a copy of it would be available, 
if the first version of the agreement had been accepted by both parties.
Alpheras system notes show Mrs F (or her representative) contacted them in July 
2020 to query the payment amount, but no further action was taken by Mrs F or her 
representative for about two years and I think, had the payments not been agreed, 
action would have been taken sooner.
A call recording of Mrs Fs conversation with the broker has been supplied. In that 
call the broker sets out the details of the finance arrangement and explains that the 
monthly payment will be £306.36, over 60 months and at an APR of 11.9%. Mrs F 
says, thats fine and I think its therefore likely that she did enter into a finance 
agreement with Alphera on that basis.
Im not therefore asking Alphera to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman