DRN-2547705
The complaint
This complaints about a short-term income protection insurance policy taken out in 
October 2018. Ms B says ActiveQuote Limited mis-sold her the policy.
What happened
The policy started in November 2018 and provided cover in the event Ms B was unable to 
work due to disability or unemployment.
Ms B was unhappy because the insurer  not ActiveQuote  declined her claim for 
unemployment in April 2019 on the grounds either that she knew at the start of the policy 
shed become unemployed or that she knew she was likely to become unemployed. She 
complained to ActiveQuote that shed been mis-sold the policy. 
Unhappy with ActiveQuotes response, Ms B complained to us. Our investigator wasnt able 
to resolve the matter informally, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2021. Essentially, I wasnt of the view that the 
policy had been mis-sold. I asked the parties to respond to my findings if they had anything 
more to add.
ActiveQuote didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ms B didnt agree with my decision. 
She said her job wasnt at risk when she bought the policy and that, if ActiveQuote had 
reason to believe a future claim might be declined by the insurer, it should have made her 
aware of that at the time.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I should emphasise that my focus here has been on the way in which the policy was sold to 
Ms B. I realise shes also unhappy with the insurers decision to decline her claim but 
ActiveQuote wasnt responsible for that. 
Returning to the actions of ActiveQuote, I can see that it recommended the policy to Ms B. 
That being the case, it ought to have taken adequate steps to ensure its advice was suitable 
for her and provided her with clear, fair and not mis-leading information about the policy it 
recommended.
Among other things, the terms of the policy ActiveQuote sold Ms B excluded claims for 
unemployment due to redundancy in case of impending unemployment known to you at the 
start of the policy.
With that in mind, ActiveQuote asked Ms B several questions about her employment 
circumstances before she agreed to buy the policy. For example, in one call she confirmed 
she didnt think she was going to be made redundant. In another call, she was asked what 
had prompted her to look for the cover. Ms B replied her employer had gone into 
administration and had been bought out by another company, so her position was uncertain. 
She was asked if she was aware of redundancies or restructuring and she replied she 
wasnt. 
At no stage did Ms B give ActiveQuote the impression that she was about to be made 
unemployed or that she thought it likely shed be made unemployed anytime soon. If 
anything, she confirmed that her employer had told her that her job was secure.
 
This is consistent with the information provided to the insurer by Ms Bs former employer. In 
that information, the employer confirmed Ms B would have first been aware of the risk of 
unemployment in February 2019. They confirmed thats also when the redundancy 
consultation period started. Thats around three months after she bought the policy.
Although the former employer said redundancies had been ongoing since March 2018, thats 
not the same as Ms B knowing that her particular job wasnt secure. 
As far as I can see, Ms B was completely open and honest with ActiveQuote in terms of the 
answers she gave. Its clear from those answers that, although it was possible shed be 
made redundant at some point in the future, this couldnt reasonably be described as 
imminent or impending. Rather it seems Ms B sought cover for peace of mind amidst the 
uncertainty.
And if Ms B didnt believe she was about to be made redundant, there was little way of 
ActiveQuote knowing that either  in spite of the information about her former employer 
available online and in the press. 
In summary, I consider that ActiveQuote took reasonable steps to determine the suitability of 
the policy for Ms B and gave her appropriate advice. I also believe it provided her with 
sufficient information with which to decide for herself if the policy was appropriate. 
I note that Ms B believes ActiveQuote ought to have made her aware a future claim might be 
declined by the insurer. But if Ms B didnt have reason to think redundancy or a claim for 
unemployment was imminent (which, as I say, I dont think she did), I dont see how 
ActiveQuote could reasonably have suspected that or that a related claim would be rejected. 
There were many policy terms and conditions and I dont think it was for ActiveQuote to try 
and predict the prospects of success of a possible future claim by Ms B.
Taking everything into account, I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision, 
which is that Ms B didnt lose out because of the way in which ActiveQuote sold her the 
policy.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman