DRN-3807758
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the transfer, from Yorsipp Limited (YL) to him, of the value within 
his late wifes Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
YL administered the SIPP. Mr D inherited its value and, in 2021, arranged for its transfer into 
his pension. His complaint was initially about the transfer process and the transfer value. He 
has also referred to a matter concerning suitability of the SIPPs investments. However, this 
decision is only about the transfer value (the complaint). The complaint about the transfer 
process has been considered to be out of time and suitability of the SIPPs investments is a 
separate matter unrelated to YL.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld, 
because YL had misguided Mr D on the transfer value, so he had experienced a loss of 
expectation in that regard. 
He referred to YL providing Mr D with a valuation for the SIPP of £39,762.52 and the 
Discharge Form (DF) it issued to him confirming that this valuation was in full and final 
settlement. However, he said, the SIPP had not been fully liquidated at the time and the 
valuation was not final because some of its funds were illiquid. By December 2021 Mr D had 
received a total of £37,389.58 from the transfer. He expected a balance of £2,372.94, but 
learnt in March 2022 that the value of the remaining illiquid funds in the SIPP was £600. The 
investigator explained that this had resulted from value fluctuations that happen to 
investments up to the point they are liquidated, so for this reason YL was wrong to have 
given Mr D the impression that a specific full and final value was guaranteed.
Prior to the investigators findings, YL had concluded the same in its complaint response. It 
acknowledged that it use of the words full and final settlement was inaccurate and could 
have been misleading, because there were funds at the time that were yet to be liquidated. It 
apologised for this but offered no compensation.
The investigator concluded that there had been no financial loss caused by YL. Instead, he 
said, YL is responsible for the unnecessary disappointment faced by Mr D, especially given 
the sensitive surrounding circumstances, and caused by misguiding his expectation of the 
total transfer value. To compensate for this, he said YL should pay Mr D £150.
The investigator discussed his view with Mr D and with his representative, and there is a 
telephone note stating that his representative confirmed his acceptance of the view. YL does 
not appear to have commented on the view, despite invitation from the investigator to do so. 
The matter was therefore referred for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for the 
same reasons. It is also noteworthy that YLs complaint response concedes the same 
reasoning and conclusion (but not remedy) expressed by the investigator.
Mr Ds expectation was wrongly set by the transfer valuation and description of that valuation 
in the DF. Both were issued by YL. There were no grounds to describe the total valuation as 
full and final because the SIPP had not been fully liquidated at the time, so its full and final 
total value was unknown at the time. 
I have not seen evidence that Mr D could reasonably have been expected to spot this error 
or to question it, and I am satisfied that he probably accepted the description as it was 
presented to him, and relied upon it. YL could have described the valuation of £39,762.52 in 
other ways that would have accurately explained its calculation at the time and explained 
that it was subject to change (and why). Unfortunately, that did not happen and Mr D 
expected to receive all the above total amount, only to be disappointed thereafter when he 
did not.
The fluctuations in values for the funds in the SIPP and the illiquidity of (and any dropped 
values in) those funds remaining in the SIPP as of March 2022, were not caused by YL. 
They were subject to market conditions. As I said at the outset, suitability of the SIPPs funds 
is a matter beyond the present complaint and beyond YLs responsibility  it was the SIPPs 
administrator, but it had no role in recommending the SIPPs investments. Therefore, and as 
the investigator said, the only matter to address is the distress (and trouble) caused to Mr D 
by YL mismanaging his expectation. In this respect, I too consider that £150 is fair 
compensation. I note that Mr D appears to agree and I will order YL in the next section to 
pay him this amount.
Putting things right
To compensate Mr D for the trouble and distress caused by YL mismanaging his transfer 
value expectation, and the disappointment that resulted in, I order YL to pay him £150. I 
consider that this is fair compensation for the disappointment he faced upon realising that 
the transfer value he had initially been given by YL was not full and final, as it had been 
described.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and I order Yorsipp Limited to pay 
him £150 for the reason stated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman