DRN-3246653
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited declined his 
critical illness claim. 
Mr B has brought this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  so for ease Ill refer to him 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
In June 2013 Mr B applied for a decreasing term assurance policy which included critical 
illness insurance and total and permanent disability benefit (TPD). As part of the application 
Mr B answered No to the following question:
Health - Last 5 years
When answering all of the following questions, if you are unsure of the relevance of any 
medical condition you have had, please disclose it anyway. Where examples are shown they 
are not intended to be a complete list.
Apart from anything you have already told us about, during the last 5 years have you 
seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
lupus, ankylosing spondylitis, gout or any form of arthritis, neck, back, spine or joint 
trouble, for example rheumatoid arthritis, sciatica?
Sadly, in 2020 Mr B was diagnosed with a degenerative spine condition so he contacted 
L&G to make a TPD claim. L&G considered the claim but decided to decline it based upon 
the above answer Mr B gave when he applied for the cover. L&G said Mr B shouldve told it 
about the back problems hed experienced before taking out the policy. And if he had, it 
wouldve added an exclusion to his TPD cover for his back and spine. 
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said the GP records showed 
that Mr B hadnt provided L&G with the correct information when completing the application. 
He said Mr B had misrepresented his medical history in relation to his back and the whiplash 
he had suffered. And L&G had fairly shown an exclusion for the back and spine wouldve 
been added to the policy.  
Mr B disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said his current diagnosis 
isnt related to his whiplash and provided some evidence from L&Gs website which shows 
under current underwriting guidelines, his back issue would be covered. Mr B is unhappy he 
cant see the underwriting criteria L&G is relying on and said hes been treated unfairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr B feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable right outcome.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading) provided 
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
Im aware that Mr B has told us he doesnt think his spinal degeneration condition is related 
to his documented medical history. But Id like to stress that this isnt a relevant 
consideration here. What I need to look at is whether a misrepresentation occurred and, if 
so, what L&Gs underwriting decision would have been if the relevant information was 
disclosed at the point of application. What matters here is whether L&G wouldve offered 
Mr B the policy on the same terms, not whether any misrepresentation was linked to his 
illness.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mr B made a misrepresentation when taking 
out this policy, and if so, whether L&G has shown it wouldnt have offered the policy at all or 
wouldve done so on different terms.
Was there a misrepresentation?
After considering the above questions, I believe its clear L&G wanted Mr B to confirm if he 
had ever experienced any back, neck or spine trouble. Ive seen the letters L&G sent to Mr B 
asking him to check these answers. They were correctly addressed, and Ive seen that Mr B 
signed the check your details form. Im satisfied there were also clear and suitable warnings 
about the failure to answer these questions correctly before and after the policy started. So, I 
believe L&G sufficiently brought these to Mr Bs attention. 
Having reviewed the medical records and what Mr B has said, Im satisfied the question was 
answered incorrectly. The GPs notes show that he had back trouble in 2009 where 
medication was prescribed, and physiotherapy advised. And in 2012 theres a GP record of 
whiplash and back pain due to a motor accident. Theres also a note of a conversation he 
had with the GP after he applied for this policy which mentions Mr B having intermittent 
episodes of low back pain for a few years. And in January 2020 Mr B presented to A&E with 
a twenty-year history of lower back pain and progressive numbness. 
Mr B told L&G that in 2009 he feigned the back injury to get out or a risky job at work and the 
whiplash injury in 2012 was only to make a claim. And, therefore, he didnt answer the 
question L&G asked about his back differently. Ive considered what Mr B has said here, but 
the Financial Ombudsman will find medical records taken by a GP to be more persuasive as 
these are based upon discussions and/or examinations that happened at the time. And the 
GP records show that Mr B had issues with his lower back where medication was prescribed 
in 2009 and whiplash in 2012. Ive also found the A&E notes that were taken in 2020 to be 
persuasive here because they mention Mr B having back pain for twenty years. So, Im satisfied Mr B shouldve answered L&Gs question about back pain differently and 
there was a misrepresentation here. 
What would L&G have done differently? 
It would be unfair to require an insurer to honour a contract when the terms it agreed to were 
influenced by incorrect information. L&G has said Mr B was careless when he failed to 
answer the above question correctly. Im not satisfied he deliberately or recklessly 
misrepresented his medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to categorise his actions as 
careless here. The question L&G asked in its application was clear and Mr B was given clear 
warnings about not providing an accurate medical history.
So, where there has been a careless misrepresentation, CIDRA says insurers can re-
underwrite the policy as they wouldve done if theyd received correct answers. 
L&G has provided us with information from its underwriting department, including parts of the 
underwriting manual it used at the time to set out its general approach to new applications. 
So, Ive looked at this evidence independently. Im afraid I cant supply this information to 
Mr B as its commercially sensitive and this information is more persuasive than the evidence 
Mr B has provided from L&Gs current website. Thats because the underwriting criteria Ive 
seen shows me what L&G wouldve done in 2013 if it had been told about Mr Bs back 
issues. Whereas the underwriting information Mr B has supplied is based upon L&Gs 
current approach. But CIDRA entitles L&G to review its underwriting criteria from the time of 
the application. So, Im satisfied L&G has taken the correct approach here.  
L&Gs normal approach wouldve been to add an exclusion for the back and spine for Mr Bs 
TPD policy. Even if it seemed to Mr B at the time he applied for the policy that there was 
nothing to worry about or be suspicious of, Im satisfied L&G shouldve been made aware of 
back pain before the policy started. And L&G has shown that if it had, it wouldve added the 
exclusion to his TPD benefit.
So, Im satisfied Mr Bs policy wouldve had a back and spine exclusion added to the TPD 
cover by L&G if hed disclosed his full medical history, and as a result a claim wouldnt have 
been paid. This means I think it was fair for L&G to add this exclusion retrospectively and 
decline his claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman