DRN-1546414
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr P says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
The PPI was designed to help protect Mr Ps monthly credit card repayments if he couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr P disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Based on a copy of Mr Ps signed credit card application form, I think RBS made it 
clear that he didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to do so. I take his 
point that there was nowhere to tick to decline PPI, but the box to ask for PPI was 
ticked. 
From experience of RBS sales generally and what Ive seen in this case, I dont 
believe RBS recommended the PPI to Mr P, despite his recollection that it did. So, it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr P got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so 
it would have been useful for him if something went wrong despite being entitled to 
enhanced sick pay for a time, redundancy pay and having access to some savings. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P (by offsetting this against his existing debt with 
it) because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr P about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think thats fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand its already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman