DRN-3340908
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) provided an overdraft to him that was 
unaffordable.
What happened
Mr S held a current account with Lloyds which had an overdraft attached to it. In May 2017, 
Lloyds approved an application from Mr S to increase the overdraft limit to £4,000. Following 
this, Mr S made further online applications on a number of occasions. Whilst some of these 
applications were declined, Lloyds approved increases and reductions to the overdraft over 
a number of different occasions until July 2019. At this point Lloyds approved an increase of 
the overdraft limit from £4,000 to £5,390. I
n June 2020, Mr S complained to Lloyds and said he thought Lloyds irresponsibly provided 
the overdraft limit and the subsequent increases. He said if Lloyds had checked his credit 
file, it would have seen he had a number of different credit accounts that he was using to 
fund gambling transactions. Whilst Mr S acknowledged he had made the transactions, he 
said Lloyds failed to monitor his account and if it had done, it would have noticed he was 
using his overdraft to pay for gambling transactions. He complained to Lloyds and said he 
wanted it to refund all the interest and charges he had paid and remove any adverse 
information it had reported to credit reference agencies. 
Mr S says as a result of this, he entered into an individual voluntary arrangement in          
July 2020 (IVA). Lloyds closed the account and sold the debt to a third party in    
September 2020. 
Lloyds looked into Mr Ss complaint, but it disagreed that it had been irresponsible in lending 
to Mr S. Unhappy with this, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. 
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Lloyds ought to 
have realised that Mr S wasnt using his overdraft as intended between April 2016 and 
January 2018. Whilst the adjudicator thought the gambling transactions Mr S made were 
sporadic and he didnt think these should be concerning for Lloyds, he thought Lloyds 
shouldnt have added interest, fees and charges between April 2016 and January 2018. He 
said the account received multiple large credits from January 2018 onwards and Mr S was 
able to reduce his balance from this date. So he didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything in 
relation to the charges and interest it had applied from January 2018 onwards.
Mr S didnt respond. But Lloyds said Mr S was using his account as intended within the 
arranged overdraft limit and it didnt think the transactions demonstrated that Mr S was in 
financial difficulty. As Lloyds remained in disagreement, the was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 February 2022, in which I said the following:
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. Weve also set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law. Ive considered this approach while deciding Mr Ss complaint. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ss account usage from January 2018 showed that Mr S was 
receiving large credits into the account. And so, he didnt think Lloyds needed to refund any 
interest and charges after this date. However, I think it should refund the overdraft interest 
and associated fees it added after it renewed Mr Ss overdraft in April 2016. Ill explain why. 
In July 2014, Lloyds separately approved lending to Mr S for a consolidation loan. The funds 
from this loan were paid into this account and this resulted in the account holding a credit 
balance. However, the proceeds of the loan were quickly transferred out to other accounts 
and the account fell into an arranged overdraft again the same month. Following this, whilst 
Mr S remained within his arranged overdraft limit, the account didnt maintain a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. 
Lloyds own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not 
prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think when Lloyds renewed Mr Ss overdraft in    
April 2016, Mr Ss overdraft usage since July 2014, should have prompted Lloyds to have 
realised that Mr S wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms. As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Ss overdraft usage and instead 
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. So, I think 
Lloyds should refund any interest, fees and charges Mr S has paid from April 2016 until 
January 2018. 
In January 2018, Mr S made an online application to reduce his overdraft to £500. Lloyds 
approved this application. In March 2018, Mr S made six further applications to increase the 
overdraft. Lloyds approved four of these applications and the overdraft limit was increased to 
£2,000. In April 2018, the overdraft limit was increased to £3,250 and in June 2018, Mr S 
applied to decrease the overdraft limit to £1,000. However, by the end of July 2018, following 
a number of applications made by Mr S, Lloyds approved applications to increase the 
overdraft limit to £4,000. And in July 2019, Lloyds approved an application to increase the 
overdraft limit to £5,390.
Before approving the overdraft limit increases, Lloyds needed to make sure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
S could afford to repay the amount it was lending. 
A proportionate check is dependent on a number of factors including  but not limited to   
Mr Ss particular circumstances (e.g. his financial history, current situation and outlook, and 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit he 
was looking to obtain.
At the time of the applications to increase the overdraft, Lloyds obtained details of Mr Ss 
income and asked him information about his housing costs. It also reviewed his use of the 
account leading up to the application. It has sent our service a copy of the information it 
obtained. 
Mr S had reduced his overdraft limit from £4,000 in May 2017 to £500 in January 2018. So, 
when Lloyds accepted four applications in the same month in March 2018 to increase the 
overdraft limit again to £2,000, I think Lloyds should have taken a closer look at Mr Ss 
circumstances before agreeing to these increases.
Ive looked at Mr Ss statements in the lead up to the application being made. Having done 
so, whilst regular payments were made into the account, Mr S was clearly having difficulty 
managing his money. This is demonstrated by the account not holding a credit balance 
between July 2014 until December 2017. And even then it had a nominal credit balance for a 
couple of hours. Further payments were made out of the account the same day which made 
the account fall into its overdraft again. This extended period of time shows Mr S wasnt 
using the overdraft as intended and instead was using it for general day to day spending. 
Between January 2018 and March 2018, the account held a positive balance. But Mr S 
started using his overdraft again in March 2018 and during this period, Lloyds approved 
applications to increase the overdraft to £2,000. I think Mr Ss use of his account in the lead up to this, suggested he was again falling into financial difficulties, given he had been 
reducing his overdraft over a period of time and was now increasing it again. 
Following this, the overdraft was increased gradually to £5,390 in July 2019. For all the 
increases in the lead up to and including the increase in July 2019, Lloyds checked Mr Ss 
income, housing costs and used credit scoring data. But I think Lloyds could have done 
more for each of these checks, given Mr Ss use of the account and the way he had reduced 
his overdraft limit and then increased it again.
Looking at account statements from March 2018, Mr S remained in his overdraft until May 
2018. At this point, funds were paid into the account and the account was put into credit. But 
these funds were from another consolidation loan that Lloyds had approved. In June 2018, 
the account went back into its overdraft until December 2018. At this point, funds were paid 
in directly from a third-party lender. In January 2019, the account went back into its overdraft 
and Mr S was close to the £5,390 overdraft limit in July 2019. Following this, in the same 
month, funds were paid in from a further consolidation loan Lloyds had agreed to provide   
Mr S  which was for a substantial amount. The account stayed in a positive balance until it 
was closed in July 2020, which was around the same time he entered into an IVA. 
In addition, Mr Ss credit file showed he had a number of accounts from various credit 
providers and he had obtained funds through a high cost credit lender. Whilst it appeared 
that Mr S hadnt missed any payments, it was clear his amount of borrowing was increasing. 
Given that Lloyds had approved three consolidation loans between April 2014 and           
July 2019, but Mr Ss borrowing was increasing, I dont think it was reasonable for it to 
further increase Mr Ss indebtedness by approving further overdraft limit increases. I think 
the information available to Lloyds suggested that Mr S wasnt using his account as intended 
and he wasnt able to manage his money. I also appreciate that Mr S didnt tell Lloyds about 
the change in his circumstances until July 2019. However, I think his use of the account 
suggested he was suffering from financial difficulties for a significant period of time. 
So, Im satisfied the information available to Lloyds suggested that Mr S wouldnt be able to 
repay what he borrowed, within a reasonable amount of time when it approved the overdraft 
limit increases between March 2018 and July 2019. And I think the information suggested  
Mr S was suffering from financial difficulties throughout this period of time. So I think Lloyds 
should also refund any interest, fees and charges Mr S has paid from March 2018 until the 
account was closed in July 2020.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I intend to instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to do the following:
Refund any interest, fees and charges applied to the account between April 2016 and 
January 2018; 
Refund any interest, fees and charges applied to the account between March 2018 
and July 2020; 
Pay 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date of each payment until the 
date of settlement*; and 
Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies about this 
account. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds Bank PLC to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds 
Bank PLC must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one. 
I understand that Mr S has been in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement since repaying 
these loans. It is Mr Ss responsibility to comply with the terms of his IVA and check any 
interest that his insolvency practitioner may have in his compensation.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr S and Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. So it follows that that there is no 
reason for me to reach any different conclusion than set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional decision which Ive outlined above, Lloyds Bank PLC 
should:
Refund any interest, fees and charges applied to the account between April 2016 and 
January 2018; 
Refund any interest, fees and charges applied to the account between March 2018 
and July 2020; 
Pay 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date of each payment until the 
date of settlement*; and 
Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies about this 
account. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds Bank PLC to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds 
Bank PLC must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one. 
I understand that Mr S has been in an Individual Voluntary Arrangement since repaying 
these loans. It is Mr Ss responsibility to comply with the terms of his IVA and check any 
interest that his insolvency practitioner may have in his compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman