DRN-4260791
Complaint
Mr G complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly entered into a hire-purchase agreement with 
him in November 2015. 
Amongst the things hes unhappy with is he thinks that the monthly payments were 
unaffordable; hes unhappy that the commission paid to his dealer wasnt disclosed to him; 
and hes unhappy at demands for payment that hes received. 
Metro Bank PLC is answering this complaint as the finance was provided by a company that 
it has taken responsibility for since Mr G entered into his agreement  Vehicle Credit Limited 
(Vehicle Credit). For ease of reference, I will refer to Vehicle Credit through the course of 
this decision. 
Background
In November 2015, Vehicle Credit provided Mr G with finance in order to facilitate his 
purchase of a used car. The purchase price of the vehicle was £6,726.00. Mr G didnt pay a 
deposit and took out a hire-purchase agreement with Vehicle Credit for the entire purchase 
price. 
The agreement had an APR of 50.67% and a term of 48 months. The total charge for credit 
of £7,209.23 was made up of interest of £6,185.23, a product fee of £999 and an option to 
purchase fee of £25. All of this meant that the total amount to be repaid of £13,935.23, was 
due to be repaid 47 monthly instalments of £289.79 and a final instalment of £315.10.
Mr Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that Vehicle 
Credit had done anything wrong or treated Mr G unfairly. So she didnt recommend that         
Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr G disagreed with our investigator and the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. Id like to 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr G has made a number of allegations regarding Vehicle Credits conduct throughout its 
dealings with him. Ive started by looking at Mr Gs concerns regarding the affordability of his 
agreement.
Did Vehicle Credit irresponsibly provide Mr G with an unaffordable hire-purchase 
agreement?
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint. 
Vehicle Credit needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that Vehicle Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr G could sustainably make the monthly repayments to this agreement 
before entering into it with him. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
Vehicle Credit says it agreed to this application after Mr G provided details of his income and 
expenditure. It says it also carried out credit searches on Mr G and had copies of bank 
statements. And when the repayments to Mr Gs existing commitments plus Mr Gs living 
expenses were deducted from his monthly income the repayments for this agreement were 
still affordable. On the other hand, Mr G says he was always going to struggle to make the 
payments to this agreement as they were unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr G and Vehicle Credit have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that this clearly wasnt a case of Vehicle Credit simply 
accepting what it was told by Mr G. Vehicle Credit not only carried out a credit check but        
Mr G was also asked to provide information to support what hed said during his income and 
expenditure declaration. 
The information Mr G provided about his income and expenditure does appear to show that 
when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit commitments were deducted 
from his income, he did have the funds, at the time at least, to sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept that Mr G appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances werent fully 
reflected in the information Vehicle Credit obtained. I also accept that Mr G had had previous 
difficulties with credit, which meant that it was reasonable to expect Vehicle Credit to apply 
greater scrutiny to his application. 
That said, Vehicle Credit obtained copies of Mr Gs bank statements. And this didnt show 
anything to suggest that the income and expenditure assessment was wholly out of kilter, or 
more importantly that there was some other obvious reason why Mr G shouldnt have been 
lent to.  
Furthermore, I should also explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. And I dont think that 
Vehicle Credit could possibly be expected to have known that the payments to this 
agreement were unaffordable bearing in mind the information provided. 
  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, Im satisfied that Vehicle Credit carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks, which showed the monthly payments were 
affordable, before entering into this agreement with Mr G. 
So Im satisfied that Vehicle Credit didnt act unfairly when deciding to lend to Mr G.Mr Gs comments regarding the sales process
Mr G has made a number of allegations regarding being pressured into taking out an 
unsuitable agreement. 
Ive considered Mr Gs arguments regarding being pressured. But in order to uphold his 
complaint on this basis, Id need to be satisfied that Mr G was pressured to the extent that 
Vehicle Credit (or the dealer) effectively left him in a position where he had no choice other 
than to go ahead with this vehicle purchase and this agreement. 
Im afraid that Im not persuaded that this was the case here  particularly as the approval 
process for the loan took some time. Mr G had to provide documentary evidence to support 
his application and ended up with a vehicle of his choosing. Indeed, I have difficulty 
accepting that Mr G couldnt simply have halted the process or refused to provide requested 
documents, which he would have had to obtain after the initial discussions about the vehicle, 
if he genuinely didnt wish to go ahead with the purchase. 
Mr G also says that the interest, product fee and option to purchase fee werent explained to 
him. Its not entirely clear what it was about these fees and charges Mr G believes should 
have been explained. But I wouldnt expect a broker to proactively go through each and 
every facet of an agreement before a customer signs it. Ive been provided with a copy of   
Mr Gs hire-purchase agreement, which appears to have his signature on it.
The agreement clearly sets out that the total charge for credit is £7,209.23 and this is made 
up of interest of £6,185.23, a product fee of £999 and an option to purchase fee of £25. 
Given the prominence of this information within the agreement, I simply dont think it was 
reasonable for Mr G not to have noticed these fees and charges before he signed the 
agreement. So if Mr G was unsure, or unhappy, about these fees or charges and wanted an 
explanation on them, he should have asked for this at the time. 
Furthermore, as Mr G signed the agreement and concluded the transaction, I can only 
assume that he was happy, at the time at least (I accept that hes clearly unhappy now), to 
proceed on these terms. I dont think the fact that he didnt make the payments under the 
agreement changes this. 
Ive also seen that Mr G has referred to his agreement being unsuitable and that other 
alternative options werent discussed with him. Again its unclear what other options Mr G 
believes should have been discussed with him, or what other options he believes might have 
been more suited to his circumstances, as he hasnt elaborated upon this. Indeed, it seems 
to me that Mr Gs arguments regarding suitability relate to whether the agreement was 
affordable.
Ive already explained why I think that Vehicle Credit was reasonably entitled to conclude 
that Mr G would be able to make his monthly payments. So Ive not seen anything here 
which persuades me that Mr Gs agreement was unsuitable for him.         
Did Vehicle Credit unfairly pay an undisclosed commission to Mr Gs broker for introducing 
him? 
Mr G believes he should be paid all of the undisclosed commission that his broker received 
from Vehicle Credit for introducing his business.
However, Vehicle Credit has explained that it didnt pay any commission to the broker for 
bringing about Mr Gs hire-purchase agreement. It says that the terms of Mr Gs hire-purchase agreement meant that the broker didnt qualify for a commission payment in this 
instance. It has also provided information to support this being the case.
In this instance, Im satisfied that the records Vehicle Credit has provided indicate that it is 
more likely than not that it didnt pay the broker commission for introducing Mr G and 
bringing about his hire-purchase agreement. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Vehicle Credit did pay Mr Gs 
broker commission and Im not upholding this part of Mr Gs complaint either. 
Vehicle Credits actions once Mr G began missing payments
It isnt in dispute that Mr G got in arrears, as far back as early 2016. Once a lender is told, or 
it realises, that a borrower is experiencing financial difficulties we would expect it to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Part of this process 
is getting an understanding of a customers situation and ability to bring their account up to 
date. 
So I dont think that Vehicle Credit contacting Mr G about his payments in these 
circumstances in itself amounts to undue pressure or was unfair or unreasonable.
 
I can also see that Vehicle Credit accepted a number of partial payments and attempted to 
arrange a number of payment plans to bring Mr Gs account up to date. So I think that it 
would be inaccurate to say that Vehicle Credit didnt try to help Mr G. However, all of these 
arrangements were only ever meant to be temporary.  
And I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for Vehicle Credit to 
continue ignoring Mr Gs obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the agreement might 
have become demonstrably unsustainable for him, indefinitely. So I would have expected 
Vehicle Credit to have taken corrective action by recovering the vehicle in the way that it did 
in late 2016. 
After all while terminating an agreement, recovering a vehicle and recording a default or 
other adverse information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does limit the 
customers indebtedness. Particularly as vehicles typically depreciate over time and the less 
a lender is able to recover for a vehicle the less a customers balance will correspondingly 
reduce. 
Furthermore, whilst I realise that Vehicle Credits decision will have been very disappointing 
to Mr G, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Vehicle Credit to begin the process of 
terminating the agreement in late 2016. As this is the case and Mr G wasnt able to take 
steps to repay what was owed, or reach a suitable arrangement to repay what was owed 
within a reasonable period of time, Im satisfied that Vehicle Credit was entitled to take 
possession of the vehicle and record any adverse information it did. 
Finally, Ive seen that Mr G is unhappy with more recent communications hes received 
regarding his outstanding balance. However, Vehicle Credit, as it was entitled to, sold Mr Gs 
account to a third-party debt purchaser some time ago. The debt-purchaser is a regulated 
firm in its own right responsible for its own correspondence and steps to recover the amount 
of the outstanding balance.
The correspondence Mr G has received, which hes unhappy about and which hes provided 
us with copies of, have been sent on behalf of the debt purchaser. As this is the case, Mr G 
will need to direct any concerns he has about this correspondence or the actions about the 
debt purchasers representative to the debt purchaser in the first instance. I cannot hold Vehicle Credit responsible for another regulated firms actions and therefore dont think it 
acted unfairly in relation to this matter. 
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr G  particularly in light of his 
current financial position and the length of time it has taken for his complaint to reach this 
stage. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his 
concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman