DRN-3487097
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car supplied to him by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc  
trading as McLaren Financial Services (Santander).
What happened
Mr H acquired a new car under a conditional sale agreement with Santander in July 2020. 
The car cost around £147,000. Under the agreement, Mr H made an advance payment of 
£20,000 and he was required to make 24 payments of £999, followed by a final payment of 
£114,648.33 if he wanted to keep the car. 
In March 2021, Mr H contacted the supplying dealership, who Ill refer to as D, to let it know 
the cars radio and media unit wasnt working. D asked Mr H to send it photos so the part 
could be replaced. However, due to a global supply issue of the part, D couldnt carry out the 
repair. So Mr H complained to Santander in January 2022.
Santander issued its response to Mr Hs complaint and told Mr H the part was on back order. 
It said given the issue had arisen more than six months after Mr H got the car, it was down to 
Mr H to show that the issues hed experienced with the media system were present at the 
time the car was supplied to him. So it said Mr H would need to provide independent 
evidence to demonstrate this and it didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. He said the cars media unit 
hadnt been working since March 2021. He said this had affected his enjoyment of the car 
significantly and so he wanted to return the car and get financial compensation from 
Santander.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said she wouldnt reasonably expect the issue 
with the media system to occur within eight months of the car being supplied to Mr H. She 
said the dealer had confirmed the issue occurred due to a faulty part, which it wouldnt 
expect to fail given the cars age and mileage and so she said the part wasnt sufficiently 
durable. 
She concluded that the car supplied to Mr H wasnt of satisfactory quality. She also 
acknowledged that the part had become available in April 2022 and said the dealer should 
arrange to repair the issue. She said Mr H should be refunded 20% of any rentals between 
March 2021 and April 2022 to cover his impaired use of the car, with applicable interest. She 
also told Santander to remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H agreed with our investigator. But Santander disagreed. It said the recommendation to 
pay Mr H 20% of all his rentals between March 2021 and April 2022 was disproportionate, as 
he would still have been able to use some features of the car. It said instead it would offer  
Mr H £200 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. And it mentioned that Mr H 
had been offered free servicing by the manufacturer as a goodwill gesture and a free repair 
even though there was no evidence to suggest the fault with the car was present at the point 
it was supplied to Mr H. Mr H didnt accept this offer and neither did he accept the offer from 
the manufacturer.
As Santander remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed for an ombudsmans 
decision.
While awaiting a decision, Mr H confirmed the car was repaired in June 2022. Mr H said he 
had lost faith in the car, so he sold it and repaid the finance in July 2022.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car supplied to Mr H was of satisfactory 
quality. If I dont think it was, Ill need to think whats fair, if anything, to put things right.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Santander is the supplier of the car under this 
type of agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers conditional sale agreements. Under a 
conditional sale agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect. So the 
cars condition at the point of supply, should meet the standard a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory, given its age, mileage and price. 
The car Mr H acquired was brand new and from a premium manufacturer. He was paying 
£999 a month for the car and the cash price of the car was around £147,000. Bearing this in 
mind, I dont think a reasonable person would expect the car to have any problems for a 
significant amount of time and I think they would have very high expectations for the quality 
of the car.
Im satisfied the car had a fault with the radio from March 2022. I say this as D seems to 
accept this in an email chain, and a repair was later carried out.
I now need to consider whether this fault makes the car of unsatisfactory quality. One of the 
considerations of whether goods are of satisfactory quality is durability. 
Having considered that the car was only around eight months old, it cost around £147,000 
and it was from a premium brand, I dont think a reasonable person would expect a 
component within the car to become faulty after eight months. 
In light of this, Im satisfied that the car Mr H was supplied wasnt sufficiently durable. It 
follows that I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr H.
Ive gone on to think about what Santander needs to do to put things right. 
Santander say Mr H was able to use some of the features of the car such as the Bluetooth 
and a USB plugin. To understand the impact to Mr H, I asked him to explain which features 
he couldnt use. Mr H says he was unable to use the radio or DAB tuner. He says this was 
particularly important to him as he doesnt use a smart phone, so the Bluetooth or USB 
options were irrelevant to him.
Ive thought about this carefully and whilst Mr H was still able to drive the car and make use 
of a number of its features, I dont think he was able to make use of a significant part of it by 
being unable to use the radio or DAB tuner. Ill explain why.
There doesnt seem to be a dispute that Mr H was able to make use of the Bluetooth or USB 
features. But, Im persuaded by Mr Hs testimony that these features were irrelevant to him 
given he doesnt use a smart phone. So I think being able to use the radio or DAB tuner was 
of significant importance to Mr H. Having thought about the features Mr H intended to use, Im satisfied he had impaired use of 
the car whilst these features werent working. I think Mr H would have more likely than not 
intended to make use of the radio or DAB tuner each time he drove the car. And I think any 
reasonable person would consider being able to listen to music or the radio, as a function 
that could reasonably expected to be used each time a car is driven. 
Mr H has said the repair was carried out in June 2022. But he hasnt disputed that D 
contacted him to let him know it could repair the issue in April 2022. So given the car could 
have been repaired in April 2022, I think any impaired usage should be considered up until 
this time. 
Overall, having considered the amount Mr H was paying for the car each month and that the 
specific functions he intended to use werent working for over a year, I think Santander 
should refund Mr H 20% of the rentals between March 2021 and April 2022. I think this is a 
fair and reasonable reflection of the impaired usage Mr H has suffered. 
In her opinion, the investigator recommended that the car should be repaired. As this has 
been completed, and the car sold, Santander dont need to take any action on this point.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I instruct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc  
trading as McLaren Financial Services to do the following:
Reimburse Mr H 20% of all repayments paid between March 2021 and April 2022; 
and
Pay Mr H 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement. *
*If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman