DRN-1664501
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the level of service that HSBC UK Bank Plc has provided in 
relation to his investment bond he held with it.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why.
I understand that Mr R feels he had many calls with HSBC to try and discuss his 
investment bond. And rather than solving the problem, he says these calls caused 
him a lot of trouble and upset. Having listened to the calls that took place, I 
appreciate why Mr R was frustrated, but I cant say HSBC acted unfairly. 
On 15 March 2019 Mr R was unable to clear security as he provided the incorrect 
policy number. However, he explained during the call he wanted to surrender his 
policy and the advisor gave him the information he needed in order to do this. Mr R 
chose to send a letter stating he would surrender the policy. So, the advisor provided 
the address Mr R needed to write to. I appreciate that Mr R couldnt discuss his bond 
at that point, but he did outline that he wanted to surrender the bond and the advisor 
gave him the information he needed in order to do this. 
On 27 March 2019 Mr R called again as he wanted clarification on the letter he had 
received. The advisor asked for the policy number, but the account couldnt be 
located. Mr R was asked security questions but was unable to pass security. 
However, the advisor outlined Mr Rs options over the telephone regarding 
surrendering his bond.
Mr R called several times on 24 April 2019. Mr R wanted to confirm if HSBC had 
received his letter and discuss his policy. However, each time Mr R called he couldnt 
clear security. The first time Mr R said he would write to HSBC and then terminated 
the call. The second time the advisor said he could go into to branch and attempt to 
call the life team from branch as this would be easier for him in order to pass 
security. Mr R agreed to do this.
Mr R called again that day (he hadnt visited the branch) but again he couldnt clear 
security. So, the advisor offered to call him back and try a security reset. Mr R 
expressed on every call he didnt understand why HSBC were asking him in these 
questions as he felt he had provided his details. But the advisers on each call did 
highlight that Mr R hadnt passed security and highlighted what question he failed on. 
So, with that in mind, I cant say HSBC acted unfairly. I say this because, security 
questions are in place to protect Mr R. So, it would have been irresponsible and 
resulted in a security breach if any of the advisors had continued assisting Mr R once 
he had failed security. 
I appreciate this was frustrating for Mr R but on each call, I can see the advisors tried 
to provide generic information or an alternative way for him to pass security. 
I am satisfied HSBC acted fairly and reasonably. So, I wont be asking it to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, so I wont be asking HSBC Bank UK 
Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman