DRN-2961064
Complaint
Mr H says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly added overdraft charges 
to his overdraft. He says he should have been provided with more notice of the charges and 
that more should have been done to bring them to his attention.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. She didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts NatWest charged Mr H were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services, or whether it should act as a more socially responsible enterprise (as Mr H has 
suggested), is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with. That 
said, while Im not looking at NatWests charging structure per se, I can look at whether it 
applied these charges to his account unfairly. 
Mr H says that NatWest treated him unfairly because it changed his account from a graduate 
account to a student one without his permission. And this is what caused him to incur these 
charges. Ive considered what Mr H has said. But it may help for me to explain that a 
graduate account is only usually provided for a temporary period, typically no more than a 
couple of years, as a bridge between a student account and a standard one. 
Ive not seen anything here, including the further information Mr H has provided, which leads 
me to believe Mr H was misled into believing that hed be entitled to a graduate account in 
perpetuity and I dont think Mr H can reasonably have believed this to be the case either. 
And once his entitlement to a graduate account ended and Mr H circumstances meant he 
was no longer eligible, Mr H was automatically migrated to one of NatWests standard 
accounts - the fee free Select account. I think the important thing for me to stress here is that 
as Mr H was no longer eligible for a graduate account, at this stage, NatWest didnt need his 
permission to make this change.     
Given it was standard practice to do so, I do think NatWest would have sent something 
either via internet banking or in the post to notify of this change in account. NatWest has 
been unable to supply copies of any letters it may have sent. But given the length of time 
thats passed since the switch took place, I dont think that this is too surprising. And, in any 
event, the new charges for Mr H using his overdraft were clearly shown on his statements. 
I know Mr H says further communication from NatWest - specifically highlighting how much 
more it cost to use his overdraft going forward - would have resulted in him acting differently. 
And I accept this is possible. But it is important to note that Mr H did have the option of using 
internet banking which he did manage to do once he got in contact with NatWest, or going 
into branch to enquire on the status of the account. 
Im not saying that a customer has to read their statements or monitor their account 
transactions. And I expect that Mr H didnt do so because he hoped that the £10 a month he 
was crediting his account with would be enough to repay his overdraft eventually. But if a 
customer does rely on such a method, they do run the risk of missing charges or 
transactions. 
Furthermore, in the absence of any notification from Mr H that he was experiencing financial 
difficulty, or there being anything in the information NatWest had suggesting this was 
obviously the case, I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed with the 
interest, fees and charges it added. 
I appreciate that NatWest did get in touch with Mr H as soon as he went into an unarranged 
overdraft. But this is because, as Mr H himself has pointed out, it costs far more to borrow on 
an unarranged overdraft. And there were specific rules put in place which required banks to 
send text messages for unarranged overdraft usage as a result. 
Again, I do accept its possible that Mr H might have acted sooner if hed received text 
messages keeping him updated with his arranged overdraft usage. But I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr H signed up for text notifications from NatWest. And as this in 
any event wasnt something that NatWest was required to do, without it being specifically 
requested, its not really fair and reasonable for me to say it should have done this here. So I 
dont think that NatWest unfairly failed to send text messages before it was required to. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr H when applying these charges. So Ive not been persuaded to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for Mr H  as it is clear 
that he feels strongly about this matter. But I hope that hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and at least feel that his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman