DRN-1427655
The complaint
Miss M complains about the amount that she's been charged by PSA Finance UK Limited, 
trading as Peugeot Financial Services, at the end of her hire purchase agreement. Her father 
is helping her with her complaint. 
What happened
A new car was supplied to Miss M under a hire purchase agreement with Peugeot Financial 
Services that she signed in May 2016. The car was collected and inspected by a third party 
on behalf of Peugeot Financial Services in May 2019 when the agreement ended. An 
inspection report was prepared which recommended the following charges: £25 for a 
missing literature pack; £400 for two missed services; £36.89 for a missing locking wheel 
nut; £30.85 for a broken door mirror indicator; and £65 for a scuffed wheel.
Peugeot Financial Services charged Miss M £557.74 for those issues and £311.95 for 
excess mileage. She says that she accepts the excess mileage charge but she complained 
to Peugeot Financial Services about some of the other charges and she then complained to 
this service. Her father provided evidence to show that the car had been serviced and that 
the broken mirror indicator had been replaced.
The investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said thatPeugeot 
Financial Services should remove the charges relating to the broken door mirror indicator 
and the missing service history. He also said that it should compensate Miss M with £75 to 
reflect the trouble and upset caused - and that amount should be used to reduce the 
outstanding charges - and that it should also instruct any third party debt collectors to cease
chasing Miss M for the debt.
Peugeot Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that it reminded Miss M of her contract end date well in advance, to 
allow her to prepare the car for return and to ensure the relevant documentation was present 
and up to date, in order to avoid any contractual charges. It says that the evidence of the 
services could have been obtained from the dealer before the car was returned which would 
have avoided the charge. It says that it takes a discretionary view on such charges in cases 
where there were exceptional circumstances impacting on the customers ability to 
adequately maintain or prepare the car for return but it's not aware that any such 
circumstances apply in this case. It says that the charges have been correctly applied in line 
with industry standards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesn't seem to be any dispute that the car's literature pack and locking wheel nut 
were missing when the car was returned by Miss M or that a wheel was scuffed. The 
inspection report recommended charges totalling £126.89 for those issues and I'm not 
persuaded that there's enough evidence to show that those charges are unfair or unreasonable. Miss M has also been charged £311.95 for excess mileage - and says that 
she accepts that charge so I haven't considered it any further.
Nor does there seem to be any dispute that the car was serviced by the dealer - which is a 
manufacturer's approved dealer - in May 2017 and June 2018. The car's service history was 
missing when the car was returned by Miss M - and she's been charged £25 for that - so 
Peugeot Financial Services wouldn't have known about those services. But the hire 
purchase agreement included servicing in the schedule of services for which Miss M was 
paying £105.91 each month (in addition to the monthly payment for the car of £154.85) and 
the car was serviced by the dealer that acted as the credit intermediary for the hire purchase 
agreement and which is a manufacturer's approved dealer - so a record of the servicing 
would have been available. I consider that Peugeot Financial Services should have done 
more to check whether the car had been serviced before it charged Miss M £400 for two 
missed services. 
Miss M's father has also provided evidence to show that the car's door mirror indicator had 
been replaced before the car was returned to Peugeot Financial Services. I don't consider 
that it's fair or reasonable for Peugeot Financial Services to have charged Miss M for the two 
missed services or the broken mirror indicator - so I consider that it should remove those 
charges from her account.
These events have caused avoidable distress and inconvenience for Miss M. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Peugeot Financial Services to pay her £75 to compensate 
her for that distress and inconvenience - but I agree with the investigator that the payment of 
£75 should be used to reduce the outstanding balance of her account.
Miss M's father has said that Miss M's income has been reduced. If she's unable to pay the 
amount that she owes to Peugeot Financial Services I suggest that she contacts it to try to 
agree an affordable repayment arrangement. Peugeot Financial Services is required to 
respond to any financial difficulties that she's experiencing positively and sympathetically.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Peugeot Financial 
Services to remove the charges that it's made for two missed services and a broken door 
mirror indicator from Miss M's account. I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to 
credit her account with £75 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience that she's 
been caused and that, if it's recorded any adverse information about these charges on her 
credit file, it should remove that information.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and I order PSA Finance 
UK Limited, trading as Peugeot Financial Services, to:
1. Remove the charges for the missing services and the broken door mirror indicator 
from her account.
2. Credit her account with £75 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
that shes been caused.
3. Ensure that no adverse information about these charges is recorded on Miss Ms 
credit file.
 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman