DRN-3189751
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC treated them following their 
request for a term extension on their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have an interest-only mortgage of around £350,000 with Barclays. The term 
ended in July 2017.
In late 2016, Mr and Mrs S asked Barclays for a new interest rate because the fixed rate 
their mortgage was on was coming to an end. Barclays said it couldnt give them a new rate 
because of the approaching term end date, and they would need to apply for a term 
extension.
Mr and Mrs S did so. They say they asked for a five-year extension until their planned 
retirement in 2022, but Barclays turned them down without explaining why. They then tried to 
sell a plot of land next to their home, and also looked at re-mortgaging to another lender. Mr 
and Mrs S say they kept Barclays informed about what they were doing at all times.
Barclays agreed not to take recovery action for a year while Mr and Mrs S tried to sell their 
land. That didnt work out, and Mr and Mrs S asked again for a longer extension. Amongst 
other things, they wanted to get the plans for the land re-drawn and fresh planning 
permission; they said they were also looking at re-mortgaging. 
In July 2019, Barclays started legal proceedings. It later put action on hold in light of Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say the treatment they have received from Barclays has been appalling: it has 
ignored them, lied to them, and discriminated against them on grounds of their age. They 
can see no good reason for its decision not to agree to a term extension, given their 
circumstances. They have continued to pay the interest on the mortgage, plus a bit extra 
each month. 
Barclays sent Mr and Mrs S several final response letters, offering a total of £225 
compensation. It paid £175 of that sum into a mortgage current account which Mr and Mrs S 
say they didnt know they had. But it wouldnt extend the mortgage term.
Mr and Mrs S got in touch with us. Our investigator found Barclays hadnt been able to 
explain why it turned down Mr and Mrs Ss request for a term extension in 2017. It had 
mentioned affordability, but that was all. The investigator thought it would have agreed to an 
extended term if it had looked at Mr and Mrs Ss situation properly, with their best interests in 
mind. 
The investigator recommended Barclays re-work the mortgage to reflect the interest rate Mr 
and Mrs S had applied for, over the term they had asked for, at the start of 2017. She also 
recommended it pay an Mr and Mrs S an additional £275 compensation, to bring 
compensation for distress and inconvenience to a total of £500.
Neither Mr and Mrs S nor Barclays accepted that conclusion. Mr and Mrs S felt £275 by way 
of compensation for everything Barclays had put them through for the last four years was 
nowhere near enough.
Barclays said it appeared Mr and Mrs S didnt qualify for a term extension in 2017 due to 
lack of affordability and because they had other options to repay the mortgage. It couldnt 
say now what their intentions had been in 2017 in terms of repayment of the mortgage, but it 
said that if Mr and Mrs S had applied to other lenders for a re-mortgage and been turned 
down then it wasnt out of step with what other lenders were doing. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I proposed that Barclays pay Mr and Mrs S 
a total of £750 compensation, but I didnt think it should re-work their mortgage over an 
extended term. I said: 
The starting point here is that, when they took out their mortgage with Barclays, Mr and Mrs 
S agreed to repay the capital at the end of the term in 2017. When 2017 came around, they 
werent in a position to do that and asked for an extension.
In this situation, I would expect Barclays to have given fair consideration to Mr and Mrs Ss 
request and  as the investigator explained  looked at whether agreeing to an extended 
term would be in their best interests. Barclays hasnt been able to provide anything to show 
why it turned down Mr and Mrs Ss request and its main argument is that there appears to 
have been a problem with affordability.
Mr and Mrs S think Barclays inability to explain the reasons for its decision demonstrates 
that it has discriminated against them because of their age (theyre in their sixties). What 
Barclays should have done is assess Mr and Mrs Ss particular circumstances. Those 
circumstances included the fact that Mr and Mrs S had an existing mortgage on which the 
term had ended. So, when Mr and Mrs S got their broker to put forward a fake application 
based on their real circumstances but with their ages given as mid-forties, this was an 
entirely different proposition  and I dont think Barclays indication that it would lend on that 
basis is evidence of unfair treatment. 
However, there are regulatory rules which cover mortgage lending and which are relevant to 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Those are the Mortgage Conduct of Business (MCOB) rules. 
They provide, at MCOB 11.7.1, for lenders to set aside any concerns they might have about 
the affordability of certain changes to a mortgage like Mr and Mrs Ss, if its in the borrowers 
best interests for the changes to go ahead.
I see no reason why MCOB 11.7.1 might not apply here. Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage had been 
running since well before April 2014, and they werent asking for a change to be made which 
would have been material to the affordability of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S wanted a five-year term extension until their planned retirement in 2022, and 
they cant understand why Barclays declined their application. They say they hadnt asked 
for the mortgage to extend past their retirement date, the loan-to-value ratio was only around 
25%, and they planned to sell a plot of land which would generate enough money to repay 
the mortgage in full. They have also mentioned taking out a lifetime mortgage.
So it seems that Mr and Mrs S had various options which they wanted to explore. Its not 
clear, though, why they needed five years in order to do so. And what has since become clear, in more than four years since the mortgage term ended, is that Mr and Mrs S havent 
been able either to arrange finance elsewhere or sell the land they have had on the market. 
In all the circumstances, while I find that Barclays has dealt with Mr and Mrs Ss requests 
poorly, I dont find it was unfair in not agreeing to a term extension. Instead, it gave Mr and 
Mrs S time to sell their land and to look at options for re-mortgaging elsewhere. It also put 
further action to recover the debt on hold whilst Mr and Mrs Ss complaint has been ongoing. 
I think all of this was reasonable.
The capital Mr and Mrs S borrowed will need to be paid back at some point, and they have 
had some considerable time to explore their options. I can see no particular reason why a 
five-year term extension was needed. Its not reasonable to expect Barclays to wait 
indefinitely for payment  although it should treat Mr and Mrs S fairly and consider any firm 
proposals for repayment which they might now make.
Mr and Mrs S are very unhappy with Barclays overall treatment of them and the level and 
standard of communication they have received. They have provided copies of a number of 
letters they sent to Barclays which went unanswered, and say they have given Barclays all 
the information it asked them for over the last four years, but much of this has simply been 
ignored. They also say Mrs S has been very unwell because of the stress of this situation 
and the threat of losing their home. 
I think Barclays has dealt with this whole situation poorly, leaving Mr and Mrs S confused 
and anxious about what was happening. Its communication with Mr and Mrs S was at times 
unclear. It sent various standard letters which didnt reflect what had been happening or refer 
to the calls and letters it had received from Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S have asked for a full review of Barclays complaints procedure, and 
compensation at their hourly rate. Im not the regulator, although Barclays may of course 
decide to carry out its own reviews. And we dont generally make awards for someones time 
at a particular rate; Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage is a personal rather than a professional matter. 
I do, however, think Barclays handling of the whole situation and its poor communication 
have caused Mr and Mrs S unnecessary distress and anxiety, as well as inconvenience and 
wasted time. I assess a fair award in recognition of all of that at £750.
I invited Mr and Mrs S and Barclays to let me have any more evidence and arguments they 
wanted me to consider before making my final decision. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept my provisional decision. They repeated some of their earlier 
arguments, and asked why Barclays is allowed to lie, break data protection and equality 
laws, not sign letters, and pay compensation without agreement. They still felt they had been 
treated very unfairly, and said they had wanted a five-year term extension in order for their 
planning application to be approved. They also said they hadnt tried to arrange alternative 
finance or sell their land. 
Barclays accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Mr and Mrs S havent added anything which has led me to change my 
provisional conclusions. I agree with Mr and Mrs S that Barclays treated them poorly and failed to communicate 
clearly with them. Thats why Ive concluded that it should pay them compensation, as I said 
in my provisional decision. Why this poor treatment arose isnt material to my conclusion. My 
role is to decide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, not to set rules or fine 
financial services providers. This service isnt the regulator.
As I also said in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances include the fact that 
they have a mortgage with Barclays, the term of which has ended. The operation of that 
mortgage wont have been considered in the fake application their broker made. So the 
circumstances of that application differed not just in terms of the ages of the applicants. 
Mr and Mrs S had said a number of times in correspondence with Barclays that they were 
looking for another lender and trying to sell their land. They have now said they in fact 
havent tried to do either of these things. However, that doesnt change my provisional view, 
and Mr and Mrs S havent added anything about why Barclays should extend the term now.
Mr and Mrs S have referred to legal fees that Barclays has added to their mortgage. If they 
consider those fees have been wrongly charged, they may take that up with Barclays 
separately. The award of compensation Im making here isnt related to any legal fees  its 
not to reflect any charges or costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs S £750 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2022. 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman