DRN-2870020
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Santander UK Plc, (Santander), mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage in 1994. At the same time they took out a monthly 
premium MPPI policy. 
Our adjudicator recommended that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. But as 
Santander disagreed with this view, the complaint has been passed to me to decide
. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I explain why below.
Because the sale was so long ago, Santander no longer has details of the cover Mr and 
Mrs H had. But its most likely that they were covered for accident sickness and 
unemployment.
Mr and Mrs H have told us that the sale took place during some meetings and that 
Santander advised them to take out the MPPI. They have also said that they had initially 
declined the policy because they had employment benefits and some savings which they 
could have used to help make their mortgage repayments, had either of them not been 
working. They have told us that they took out the insurance because they felt under heavy 
sales pressure to do so.
At the time of the sale, Mr H was paid on a weekly basis and Mrs H monthly. And Ive seen 
the forms of contracts used by their respective employers in these circumstances. Ive no 
reason to conclude that Mr or Mrs Hs terms of employment were different from these. And I 
can see that both contracts provided for six months sick pay. And also offered the employee 
permanent health insurance, (PHI), that would become effective after six months [sickness]. 
Im aware that the health insurance was subject to acceptance by the insurer. And that the 
sick pay was said to be payable at the employers discretion. But Ive seen nothing to 
indicate that there would have been any reason for Mr or Mrs H not to be accepted for the 
PHI. Or that the employers would not have exercised their discretion in Mr or Mrs Hs favour. 
I note that the payments by way of sick pay and under the PHI were subject to deduction of 
state benefits. And that the policy would only pay 75% of the employees basic salary, 
which was relevant as part of Mr Hs income was in addition to his basic salary. I further 
note that Mr and Mrs H were earning similar amounts at the time of the sale. Taking all this 
into account, I find that, although their combined income were likely to have been reduced 
somewhat, Mr and Mrs H would have had reasonable means to make their mortgage 
payments had either of them been unable to work because of accident or sickness. 
Accordingly I find that they didnt have a reasonable need for the policy to cover them in 
these circumstances. 
As Santander advised Mr and Mrs H to take out the insurance, it ought to have taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for their needs. Understandably, because of 
the time that has passed, Santander has been unable to give us full details of what steps it 
took or what it discussed with Mr and Mrs H during the meetings. But, as Ive explained 
above, I dont think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, so Santander shouldnt have 
sold it to them.
This means that they have lost out because they paid for something they didnt want.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs H should be put back into the position they would have been in now if they had 
taken out the mortgage without the MPPI policy. So Santander should:
- Refund to Mr and Mrs H all the premiums they paid to the MPPI policy; and
- Pay Mr and Mrs H interest at 8% per year simple on each premium from the date it 
was paid to the date compensation is paid;
- I understand that Santander has already paid some compensation to Mr and Mrs H in 
relation to the level of commission it got for selling them the policy. It can take off the 
amount of this compensation from the amount Ive decided it now owes them.
 If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
and Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. And 
I order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs H compensation in line with the approach set 
out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman