DRN-3138214
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited (British 
Gas) when she made a claim under her HomeCare policy.
  
Mrs M is represented by her husband, Mr M, but for ease Ill refer to Mrs M throughout.
 
What happened
Mrs M holds HomeCare cover with British Gas, which includes cover for Plumbing and 
Drains. Since January 2020, Mrs M has experienced several problems with her shower, 
including blockages and leaks. 
British Gas visited to carry out repairs and in February 2020 the shower drain was plunged, 
in order to restore flow. The shower was tested, and normal flow resumed. 
Following this, around March 2020, Mrs Ms shower began to leak so she called British Gas 
to make a claim under her policy. British Gas attended and said that the leak was as a result 
of the seals around the bath which wasnt covered under the policy, so no further action was 
taken at this point. 
In July 2020 Mrs M contacted British Gas again as the shower had started to leak through 
the ceiling below. British Gas engineer removed the side of the shower and fitted a new 
shower waste. As this couldnt be completed in one visit, an engineer returned on two further 
occasions to fit and seal the shower waste. 
A few days later Mrs M contacted British Gas again, this time because the shower water 
wasnt draining properly. On this occasion, British Gas sent a third-party plumbing company 
who used a plunger to remove the blockage, until the drains ran clear. 
Around a month later the drain blocked again, so Mrs M contacted British Gas once more. 
The third-party engineer attended and cleared the blocked shower drain with a plunger 
again. On this visit the engineer noted that the pipe had a poor fall meaning the pipe angle 
was shallow. 
The company visited on a third occasion to remove the blockage  but said they could not 
guarantee that the same issue wouldnt continue due to the pipe. 
In September 2020, as the drain continued to block, Mrs M complained to British Gas, she 
said she was unhappy with the service shed received, and given the problem was still 
happening after numerous visits, that the work wasnt completed to a good standard. She 
also thought the poor workmanship had caused a leak through their ceiling. 
British Gas didnt uphold the complaint. It acknowledged the service provided could have 
been better. However it said as the access points had been made good, this had now 
resolved matters. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She said British Gas should have repaired the issue under their 
HomeCare policy, and because it didnt, she wanted a refund of her premiums. Mrs M said 
shed also had to pay her own builder to repair the pipe costing £800. She said she shouldnt 
have needed to pay this and thought British Gas should cover this cost. So she asked this 
service to look into her complaint.
Whilst our investigator was reviewing Mrs Ms complaint, British Gas made an offer of £100 
to apologise for the service it had provided. Our investigator thought this was fair 
compensation but didnt uphold the remainder of Mrs Ms complaint. She said that whilst 
British Gas had made numerous attempts to fix the blockage, it had found that the issue was 
as a result of poor pipe fall, which was an existing fault not covered by the policy. 
She also explained that whilst this issue wasnt covered by the policy it didnt mean that Mrs 
M should receive a refund of their premiums, or that British Gas should cover the cost of a 
new pipe. 
British Gas agreed but Mrs M didnt. She said the problem was never resolved by British 
Gas because it hadnt been able to find the cause. She also didnt agree that the problem 
was pre-existing as it hadnt happened before and felt that £100 didnt resolve matters. So 
she asked that an ombudsman look into the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part. Ill explain why.
Repairing the seals in March 2020
Mrs M has said that British Gas didnt attend their property to look at the leak, due to the 
lockdown imposed by the UK Government as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic - but 
continued to decline this claim. So I need to see if British Gas fairly declined Mrs Ms claim, 
Ive looked at the HomeCare policy terms and conditions under the plumbing section which 
says, whats not covered: Showers and their parts, shower pumps, sanitary ware, spa 
baths, seals and grouting. Ive also reviewed job sheets, provided by British Gas - which are 
completed by engineers each time they visit a site  and Ive seen that British Gas visited 
Mrs M on 4 March 2020  which was prior to the UK entering lockdown. The job sheet 
states, Shower seal gone. Customer to get private outside assistance. 
It goes on to say that the claim was rejected as it was for a seal, which is not covered by the 
policy. The terms and conditions are clear that repairs to seals are not covered under the 
policy. And whilst I can appreciate this was some time ago and it may be difficult to recall  
given the challenges the pandemic has caused - the evidence Ive seen explains the issue 
and shows an engineer visited. So I think its reasonable that British Gas rejected this claim 
as it wasnt covered. 
Therefore, I wont be upholding this part of Mrs Ms complaint.  
Fitting a new shower waste
In July 2020 Mrs M contacted British Gas because the shower began to leak through the 
ceiling below, and British Gas attended the property to carry out a repair. 
Having reviewed the job sheets, I can see this work was carried out across three visits. 
During the first visit the engineer took off the side of the shower in order to fit a new shower 
waste. However, it wasnt until the second visit, four days later, that the shower waste was 
fitted. Mrs M then waited a further eleven days before an engineer returned to seal in the 
new shower waste, completing the job. 
I can appreciate this would have been frustrating for Mrs M and I havent seen any evidence 
from British Gas to explain why it took as long as it did to put things right. So I dont think 
British Gas treated Mrs M fairly here, and Im upholding this part of the complaint. 
British Gas has acknowledged this and offered £100 compensation. Mrs M has told us she 
had another shower she could use during this time. So whilst I recognise it would have been frustrating, I think the compensation British Gas has offered for this delay is fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances. 
Blocked Shower pipe 
In August 2020, shortly after British Gas completed the work on the shower waste, Mrs M 
called to say the shower drain was blocked. An engineer from a third-party company, that 
British Gas use for this type of claim, attended to try to resolve the problem. Ive looked at 
the job sheet from this visit, which says, Shower blocked, plunged numerous times, 
removed blockage, drain rate running all ok  also checked for leaks as trap [shower waste] 
was recently replaced. 
Mrs M said the blockage was as a result of the work British Gas carried out to repair the 
shower waste and that theyd not had this issue before, in the ten years theyd had the 
shower. However, based on job sheets Ive seen, it appears Mrs M had encountered this 
issue previously, in January and February 2020, before the shower waste was changed. 
I understand why Mrs M has questioned why it only caused a problem after ten years, given 
British Gas has said that it was a pre-existing fault. However, because of the type of fault, 
British Gas has said this problem can build up over time. Ive also seen that the engineer 
who attended in August to fix the blockage, made an additional check for leaks as a result of 
the new shower waste and said he didnt find any problems.
Having looked at the HomeCare terms and conditions, I can see that under drains it says, 
Whats covered: Unblocking drains to restore flow. The job sheet from this visit also shows 
that the engineer unblocked the drain to a level that water was running suitably. In addition, 
whilst Mrs M did encounter the same problem again, it was another month before it 
happened. Given this Im persuaded the engineer unblocked the drain sufficiently to restore 
flow, as required under the terms and conditions of the policy. 
British Gas has said that if a problem persists, the next steps is for a further investigation to 
be carried out.  On the next visit, the engineer cleared the blocked shower with a plunger, 
but, after further investigation, they also noted poor pipe fall. British Gas has said that over 
time, given that water was not draining properly because the pipe was not at a steep enough 
angle, soap will build up causing the flow to be restricted. 
In September 2020 the third-party engineer visited for the final time. On this occasion the job 
sheet stated: Plunged shower to remove blockage, cant guarantee as the same problem 
happens often due to faulty pipe. British Gas say they were unable to repair the pipe as it 
wasnt covered under the policy. So Ive looked at the policy terms to assess whether it was 
fair to decline cover here. 
The HomeCare terms and conditions, under general exclusions, says, Pre-existing faults. 
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that: 
Existed when you first took out the product [...]
We couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for example, 
faulty pipes []   
Based on everything Ive seen Im persuaded that the blocked shower drain was due to the 
poor pipe fall, and therefore it would have been excluded under the terms of the policy as an 
existing fault. So I dont think British Gas acted unfairly in declining Mrs Ms claim to repair 
the poor pipe fall. 
Whilst I understand Mrs M said that British Gas didnt find the source of the problem, it 
seems to me that the poor pipe fall resulted in the pipe regularly becoming blocked. Under 
the terms of the policy, British Gas was only required to restore the water flow, which it did 
on each occasion. It wasnt required to carry out more extensive work. I understand Mrs M 
will be disappointed by my decision, but I dont think British Gas needed to do more here, so 
I wont be upholding this part of their complaint.Poor workmanship 
Mrs M has said that as a result of British Gas poor workmanship she had to use her own 
builder to repair the pipe, which cost £800. Ive seen the invoice the builder sent Mrs M, this 
says: additional costs involved as a result of poor workmanship. So Ive considered 
whether the actions of British Gas meant that Mrs M incurred additional costs. 
Our investigator spoke to Mrs Ms builder who explained hed found a blockage in the pipe, 
which he would have expected the third-party engineer to have cleared. He also provided 
photos of the pipe. Having looked at these, and considered his comments, I can see that 
whilst the pipes were not completely clean, they also werent blocked. 
As Ive explained the policy required that drains were unblocked to restore flow. So whilst 
the pipe was not completely clean, it had been unblocked sufficiently on each visit, to restore 
flow, as required under the terms and conditions of the policy. Therefore, I dont agree that 
the work by British Gas worsened the issue Mrs M already had, and so I cant agree that 
British Gas should cover the cost of her builders invoice.     
In addition, Mrs M has said that on one occasion, when the third-party engineer plunged the 
pipe damage was caused and water leaked through the ceiling. She said this resulted in the 
engineer cutting a hole in the ceiling, to repair the cracked pipe caused. 
Ive asked British Gas about this, but it said it has no record of this damage. Ive also looked 
through all the job sheets and cant see evidence of this. That said, I can see a job sheet 
dated 9 September which states, Set up dust sheet in kitchen and cut a tidy hole in the 
ceiling, place timber supports and plasterboard the hole. Depth too big for single layer of 
plaster so multiple layers put on ceiling. Each allowing some time to go off before putting 
next coat. Put finishing coat up and tidy up.
Theres no further explanation about why the engineer took these steps, whether it was to 
carry out further investigation or to repair damage caused. However, if its the case that 
British Gas caused damage and water came through the ceiling, as Mrs M said, British Gas 
would be required to repair that damage and put things right. Based on what Ive seen British 
Gas has done this, so I wont be asking it to do anything further here. 
I understand that Mrs M feels the problem was never fixed by British Gas, so she shouldnt 
have to pay the premium or pay a builder to locate and fix it. This policy provides cover for 
various unexpected events, but there are limits to what is included. British Gas carried out 
numerous repairs and investigations, under the policy which unfortunately concluded that the 
blockage was as a result of the poor pipe fall  an existing issue from when the bathroom 
was fitted. So, whilst this issue was not covered by the policy, it doesnt mean the premium 
should be refunded as the policy still covers for other events, that Mrs M may have needed 
to claim for previously or in future. 
I can appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs M, as I can see shes 
experienced several issues with the shower, which would have been frustrating. However, 
whilst I think British Gas could have provided a better service to Mrs M and given clearer 
explanations about what was happening, theyve apologised and offered £100 
compensation. So I think British Gas has done enough to put things right and I wont be 
asking them to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct British Gas Insurance 
Limited to pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman