DRN-2056216
The complaint
Mrs C says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1998 in connection 
with a loan.
What happened
In 1998, Mrs C applied for a loan account by completing an application form in a store. 
PPI was added to her account. She says she was pressured to buy the PPI because she 
was told she needed the PPI to get the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Mrs C disagreed with our adjudicators 
view, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Allianz, the insurer, has accepted responsibility for looking at the PPI sale, so for ease, I 
will refer to Allianz as the PPI seller.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided 
not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Allianz made it clear the policy was an optional product. Allianz 
produced a copy of Mrs Cs loan application. I can see there was a separate box on the 
form dealing only with PPI. This box is signed on Mrs Cs application. I think she could have 
left the box blank if she didnt want PPI. So because she did have a choice, I have to 
conclude the policy was shown as an optional product.
Mrs C said she was pressured to buy the PPI but there is not enough detail about the 
conversations that day to make me conclude Mrs C was pressured. So I am not going to 
uphold the complaint for that reason.
I dont think Allianz advised Mrs C to take out the PPI. This means Allianz didnt have to 
make sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted it. 
I dont know exactly what information Mrs C received about the policy at the time of the 
sale. But even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, 
I dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Mrs C was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as 
a pre-existing medical condition. 
She told us she was employed and in good health. Mrs C says she would have received 
six weeks sick pay if she couldnt work. But I think the policy could have paid out in 
addition to and for longer than Mrs Cs employment benefits, so could have proved useful 
to Mrs C at a time when she may have needed it most  particularly as she was the only 
wage-earner at that time.
Mrs C said she could have relied on her family to support her. I do understand the point she 
is making, but there was no guarantee she could rely on this support at some unknown point 
in the future. So I think the policy could still have been of benefit to her.
I dont know if Allianz made the cost and benefits of the policy clear enough for Mrs C to 
understand what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, having decided she probably 
chose to have it, I think if Mrs C had properly understood the cost and benefit provided 
she would have thought the policy potentially useful for her. 
Taking everything into account, I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI 
and I think she would still have taken out the cover even if she had been given full details 
about it.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Cs submissions, but they do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman