DRN-3759751
Complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed her student account.
Background
In August 2022, Lloyds took the decision to close Miss Cs student account and although it 
provided her with two months notice before doing so it placed a block on the account for this 
period. Miss C complained however Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. As Miss C remained 
dissatisfied, Miss C referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds acted unfairly towards     
Miss C and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Miss C, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Miss C is unhappy 
that Lloyds closed her account. However, each bank has its own criteria and risk 
assessment for deciding whether to open (or close) accounts and providing a customer with 
an account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. 
So Im satisfied that Lloyds had sufficient grounds to close Miss Cs account and as such its 
decision to do so wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that Lloyds decision will have 
been very disappointing to   Miss C. And I can appreciate why the closure of her account will 
have caused her inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to 
tell Lloyds it should have continued offering Miss C an account in circumstances where it 
legitimately decided it no longer wishes to bank with her. 
Equally, while Miss C is unhappy that the block placed on her account meant that it was 
effectively closed without notice, Ive reviewed Lloyds actions and Im satisfied that it acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of her account when taking the action it did. 
Furthermore, while Miss C has said that her funds were frozen when her account was 
closed, Miss Cs statements show that she was overdrawn at the time of the account 
closure. So I dont think that Lloyds actions unfairly left Miss C without access to her funds.
Finally, while Ive thought about whats been said in relation to Lloyds actions in relation to 
an account switch, Im satisfied that Miss C had sufficient notice to arrange this in time. And I 
dont think that Lloyds did anything wrong with regard to this either. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Lloyds has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss C and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell appreciate why Lloyds was entitled to close her account in the way that it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman