DRN-3096515
The complaint
Ms C complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds handling of her private medical insurance 
claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms C says that her consultant falsely claimed for an appointment that didnt take 
place, and that this has resulted in a county court judgment (CCJ) being made 
against her. I agree with our investigator that Ms Cs concerns about this are 
between her and the consultant. This service can only consider whether BUPA has 
done anything wrong. 
BUPA didnt pay the consultants invoice of £100 because Ms C had exceeded her 
outpatient limit for the policy year. Im satisfied that was reasonable and in line with 
the policy terms.
BUPA didnt actually decline the claim. Ms C thinks it ought to have done, because 
the consultation hadnt been pre-authorised. She thinks that if BUPA had turned 
down the claim, she wouldnt be in the position she now finds herself. I disagree. I 
think it was reasonable for BUPA to say that even if it had declined the claim, the 
consultant wouldve still asked Ms C for payment. This is what happened anyway, as 
BUPA didnt pay the claim.
Ms C says that if the claim had been picked up at the time, she couldve looked into it 
and resolved the issue. However, I see that BUPA wrote to Ms C on 6 July 2016 and 
made her aware of the consultation claim for £100. It explained that she would need 
to settle this directly with her consultant as shed exceeded her outpatient limit. Im 
therefore satisfied that BUPA did bring this to Ms Cs attention at the time. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman