DRN-3436134
The complaint
Ms M says Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Dot Dot Loans provided a 9-month instalment loan for £1,000 to Ms M on 7 October 2021. 
The monthly repayments were £215.97.
Ms M says she has suffered very badly and wants the lender to payback the overpriced 
interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint, she didnt think Dot Dot Loans was wrong to 
lend to Ms M. Ms M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Dot Dot Loans was required to
establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
When Ms M applied for this loan, Dot Dot Loans asked her about her income and
expenditure and checked her credit file to understand her credit history and her existing 
credit commitments. It verified her income using a third-party source and checked her 
declared expenditure was reasonable based on a national averages. As this was Ms Ms first 
loan with Dot Dot Loans and the scheduled repayments were less than 10% of her income, 
Im satisfied these checks were reasonable and proportionate.
And I cant see there was anything in the results of the checks that ought to have led Dot Dot 
Loans to make a different lending decision. Ms Ms declared and verified income and 
expenditure showed the loan was affordable and the credit check did not show a level of 
adverse data that meant the lender ought to have thought there was a risk the loan would 
not be sustainably affordable. The report confirmed Ms M had no other high-cost short-term 
borrowing at the time and hadnt defaulted on any accounts in the previous year. 
So overall I dont think Dot Dot Loans was wrong to lend to Ms M.
It follows I am not instructing Dot Dot Loans to take any action. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman