DRN-3709183
The complaint
C, represented by Mrs S, complains that Enro Limited (Enro) mis-sold her business 
protection insurance policies and gave incorrect information about a claim.
Any reference to Mrs S or Enro includes any representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mrs S, as a sole trader as C, took out various insurance policies through Enro 
including commercial legal expenses insurance (LEI), professional indemnity 
insurance and public liability insurance.
Mrs S has an ongoing dispute with a former client (Person A) about works she 
completed. Mrs S is defending chargeback requests for these services and has a 
cease and desist order against Person A.
Mrs S sought to claim on the LEI policy to defend the credit card chargebacks and 
alleged harassment, copyright and defamation claims received from Person A. This 
claim was declined by the insurer as it said the policy didnt cover contract disputes.
Mrs S also sought to claim on the professional indemnity policy but was told by Enro 
the claim wouldnt be covered. She says it has since learnt Enro never contacted the 
insurer, Company B, at this time despite saying they had done so. Mrs S has since 
confirmed Company B is taking part of this claim forward.
Mrs S complained to Enro, saying the policies were mis-sold and werent suitable. 
And she said Enro had incorrectly stated it had raised a claim with Company B which  
caused an unnecessary ten-week delay.
Enro said the policies werent mis-sold, and that they were sold on a non-advised 
basis so it was for Mrs S to check suitability.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Enros documentation sent to 
Mrs S, including policy summaries, had set out significant terms of the policy and key 
benefits. And so Enro had presented the information for Mrs S to decide if she 
wanted the policies and if they were suitable for her business. The Investigator also 
considered Enros handling of the claim.
Mrs S provided a detailed response disagreeing, and explained the impact this claim 
had on her as an individual.
Enro also provided further commentary. It said its initial response to Mrs S saying the 
claim for professional indemnity cover would be declined was based on the available 
information she provided at the time. And Company Bs decision to cover part of the 
claim, was based on subsequent developments related to damaged furniture and 
were separate to her initial request for reimbursement of fees due to a fraudulent 
chargeback and pursuit of Person A for defamation.
Our Investigator didnt change her mind, so the complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional thoughts on 6 September 2022. Ive 
included an extract of this decision below.
Mis-sale
Mrs S says Enro recommended she take out the insurance policies in question. But 
Enro disagrees, saying it sold the policies on a non-advised basis.
An insurers obligations when selling insurance will differ depending on the basis of 
sale (advised or non-advised). So, Ive considered the available evidence to 
determine this.
Enro has provided a copy of its terms of business it says wouldve been provided to 
Mrs S. This says:
We havent given any advice or recommendations about any specific insurance 
products, underwriters or other services.
We provide you with information to enable you to make informed decisions about 
your requirements. Please remember that where we do provide you with 
information about insurance products or underwriters, this is general information 
only and we havent taken your circumstances or business needs into account.
Please therefore always ensure that you review all policy summaries and 
wordings separately and in full, and pay close attention to the sections detailing 
conditions, exclusions and limitations.
We wont be responsible for any decision you make to enter into transactions with 
any third party, including any underwriter.
I think this is clearly worded and suggests Enro didnt provide advice.
Ive reviewed the policies, policy summaries and other documentation provided by 
both parties. And while I understand Mrs S strong feeling on this matter, Ive seen 
nothing within these to suggest Enro provided advice about any policy.
Ive also taken into account all of Mrs S comments about the sale and Enros agents. 
But in the circumstances, these comments havent persuaded me over the available 
documentation Ive been presented with. So, Im satisfied Enro sold these policies on 
a non-advised basis. That means Enro needed to provide Mrs S with information 
about the policy which was clear, fair and not misleading, so she could make an 
informed decision about whether it was suitable for her needs.
Ive reviewed the policy documents and policy summaries for the respective 
insurances, and Im satisfied these set out what insured risks are covered under the 
policy in a clear, fair and not misleading way. And this wouldve allowed Mrs S to 
make an informed choice as to whether to take the policies  which she agreed to. It 
follows, Im satisfied Enro has not mis-sold these policies.
Enros actions  professional indemnity policy
C says Enro lied to her about contacting Company B. It has provided an email from 
Enro which says:
I can confirm that we did receive your emails and that we are just waiting on an 
update from the underwriters at [Company B] with respect to this case
I think this is clear in suggesting Enro was in discussions with Company B.
But, its since been established this wasnt the case. And Company B has said it 
never heard from Enro. And Enro had instead enquired with its own internal claims 
team who manage claim notifications to insurers, and their claims team determined 
that the circumstances would not be covered by the policy.Enro has also said the facts at the time suggested the claim wouldnt be paid. 
I take Enros points on board here. But its clear that since C has been in discussion 
with Company B part of the claim has been taken forward. So whether or not Enro 
believes new information came to light that may have changed things, it strikes me 
that C wouldve approached Company B earlier than it did and most likely 
established the facts of the potential claim/claims earlier than it did.
In turn, Im satisfied Enros inaccurate comments about speaking to Company B have 
delayed the claim by several weeks.
Mrs S has explained the impact on her as an individual. And while I dont doubt Mrs 
S has been through a difficult time, I have to consider the impact of this particular 
mistake, and separate this from the wider distress caused by the dispute with Person 
A and the decline of any claims made with respective insurers which Enro is not 
responsible for. And having done so, Im minded to award a sum of £200 
compensation in this case for the delay Enro has caused to Mrs S claim.
Enro didnt reply. Mrs S disagreed, providing an account of the phone call she had 
with Enro, saying its agent advised her and she had no time to check the conditions 
of the policy as she simply trusted Enros agent. She also states Enro should only 
sell policies in writing if not providing advice. Mrs S also quotes sections of ICOBS 
that discusses insurers responsibilities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did within my provisional decision 
and Im upholding this complaint.
Mrs S has discussed the telephone call shes had with Enro prior to the sale. But 
Enro has stated the sale was an online journey, and it has provided me with a back 
and forth webchat/email correspondence between its agent and Mrs S. 
The copy it has sent us was provided by Mrs S to Enro in September 2021. Mrs S 
references the messages, saying she had kept these from the sale. 
This discussion reflects Mrs S setting out her requirements to Enros agent and being 
asked to check the cover she was taking out. Mrs S discusses previous challenges in 
obtaining insurance in the past, and personal circumstances within this discussion.
Having reviewed it all carefully, Im satisfied none of Enros comments reflect any 
advice or recommendation taking place. And it seems the agent requested Mrs S 
check the documentation throughout this discussion and setting out the policies in 
question, to which she replied That all looks fine, how do I proceed with all 3?. 
While I accept its possible a separate conversation may have taken place on the 
phone, Ive been given no evidence that supports this beyond Mrs Ss account. And 
based on the back and forth messages Ive been given between Mrs S and Enro, 
theres no reference to a call. 
So, it appears most likely to me that the insurance was taken out online and that it 
was sold on a non-advised basis  for the reasons Ive given above and previously.
Id also taken into account all of the obligations Enro had under ICOBS within my 
previous decision, so these havent changed my mind.
Ive thought about Mrs Ss wider comments about insurance sales in general, but these havent changed my mind when determining a fair and reasonable outcome in 
this individual complaint. She may wish to raise concerns about the industry to the 
Financial Conduct Authority as the regulator, but I will leave this to her.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint and direct Enro Limited to pay Mrs S 
£200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman