DRN-3159134
The complaint
Ms A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted irresponsibly in 
agreeing to a personal loan. And they didnt help her when she got into financial difficulty.
What happened
In March 2019, Ms A took out a £10,000 loan with NatWest repayable over a period of 60 
months at £251.16 per month. Ms A said the application was made online and was initially 
declined. But after speaking to an advisor the loan was approved but with a higher rate of 
interest being charged.
In July 2019, Ms A said she told NatWest she was in financial difficulty as she had been  
transferring money to what was her partner at the time. But she had since realised that hed 
misled her. She said she explained to NatWest that she was taking her ex-partner to court to 
retrieve the monies shes sent to him - £132,000. She asked NatWest for a repayment plan 
to help her during these difficult times, but she said they wouldnt agree to this as she didnt 
have any disposable income. They also wouldnt stop the interest and charges accruing on 
the loan. She complained to them.
NatWest said as a responsible lender theyd assessed Ms As ability to repay the loan, by 
credit scoring, reviewing her bank account and a search on her credit reference file. Based 
on the information provided on her loan application and in line with their credit scoring 
procedures, they were able to agree to her request for the loan.
When Ms A told them of her financial difficulty, theyd done an income and expenditure 
check that showed she wasnt in a position to sustain a repayment agreement. They said 
they placed her account on hold pending a statement showing Ms As financial situation from 
a debt advisory body, but this was never received.
In August 2019, Ms A asked them for a settlement figure for the loan as she said she 
intended to place a charge against her property. In September 2019, Ms A asked for 
additional lending, but this was declined. Later the same month Ms A asked again about  a 
repayment plan but they didnt think she could sustain any repayment agreement. NatWest 
said theyd offered to change Ms A's account to an access bank account to help her with her 
finances, but she didnt want to change her accounts. NatWest said theyd followed their 
terms and conditions and had tried to help Ms A.
Ms A wasnt happy with NatWests response, she said they should have seen that she was 
making regular, large transactions to someone else and that this was unusual activity for her. 
And that her other lenders had been more helpful than NatWest during this difficult time. She 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said they he didnt think NatWest had acted irresponsibly in lending to Ms A 
as the checks theyd done showed the loan was affordable and Ms A should have been able 
to sustain the repayments.
Ms A didnt agree, she said NatWest didnt take account that she not only had a mortgage 
repayment, but she was also renting a property to  be nearer to her place of work. Ms A said 
when she made the online application she had to speak to NatWest. She said she told them 
about her rent, and that she was giving money to her partner which was causing her 
financial difficulty. Despite this she said NatWest accepted her for the loan but increased the 
interest rate applied to the loan.
 
Ms A said shed been transferring money to her now ex-partner since 2018, and this had 
amounted to around £132,000. She said shed banked with NatWest for years and they 
should have seen this.She asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I would like to thank Ms A for being open about her situation as this must have been 
a very difficult time for her. The issue I need to decide in this case is whether NatWest 
carried out sufficient checks before providing the loan to ensure it was affordable for her. 
And whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with her.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy them
the lending was affordable, and that the repayments were sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair.
And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the loan 
would have been approved if the checks had taken place. In reaching my decision
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 5.2A.20R provides guidance as to the extent and scope of a 
creditworthiness assessment and the steps needed to satisfy the requirement that the 
assessment is a reasonable one, based on sufficient information and proportionate to, the 
individual circumstances of each case.
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit granted and
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. This means NatWest 
in lending to Ms A are required to carry out a reasonable assessment of whether she could 
afford to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused  so NatWest needed to think about
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for
her. This means it wasnt enough for them to only think about the likelihood that they would 
get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Ms A.
Checks should be proportionate having consideration for the specific circumstances of the 
loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend 
on several factors such as the circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current
situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. Consideration should be given to the amount, type and cost of 
credit thats being applied for. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different loan 
applications. So, Ive considered whether NatWest in lending to Ms A had been thorough in 
the checks they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding 
to lend to her. 
NatWest based their lending decision on the application data supplied by Ms A, her credit 
history and other standard business sources. The loan Ms A applied for was for £10,000 
over a period of 60 months, with a total credit commitment of around £15,145.20. Given the 
amount of the loan and the time for repayment Id consider an affordability assessment 
would need to be more detailed and contain a greater degree of verification, for it to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate. I can see that NatWest reviewed through their internal 
checks, Ms As bank statements and this verified her salary and financial situation. 
The credit assessment NatWest carried out was based on an average monthly salary of 
£3,500. They assessed her outgoings as £918 for her mortgage/rent, £641 for living costs, 
£577 for existing loans and £659 for credit card commitments. Leaving Ms A with a monthly 
disposable income after the deduction for the new loan of £251.16 of around £450. And 
based on the assessment they considered the loan was affordable.
The call recording for the discussion about the loan is no longer available. So, Ive 
considered the information that is available to see whether their assessment was fair and 
reasonable. I know Ms A says shed been making sizeable transactions to her ex- partner 
since 2018, but Id consider a review of Ms As bank statements for the three months prior to 
the loan as a proportionate, reasonable check. Having looked at Ms As bank statements 
NatWests credit assessment is comparable. And the salary they based the assessment on I 
think was an under estimation of the salary Ms A received. Ms A said she was also paying 
rent for another property, but while I can see her mortgage payment, I havent seen any 
other transactions on her bank account to show this additional cost. And I cant hold 
NatWest responsible for something they havent seen. So, based on this I think the loan was 
affordable.
I can see that Ms A did have a high proportion of unsecured lending prior to the new loan. 
So, Ive also considered whether NatWest by approving the loan increased Ms As level of 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. But I havent seen there 
was any evidence of Ms A falling behind with her credit commitments at the time the loan 
was approved. Or that she wouldnt have been able to sustain the repayments as outlined 
above.
Ms A said she was making payments to her ex-partner and that she told NatWest about this. 
She said she told NatWest she was expecting him to repay the monies to enable her to pay 
off the new loan. And I can see from the bank statements that not only were payments being made to her ex-partner but also, she received payments from him during these three 
months. I havent seen any evidence that Ms A was coerced into applying for the loan or 
being party to it by her ex-partner, or that there was anything that should have given 
NatWest cause for concern that she might be. So, I cant see NatWest would have had any 
reason to doubt what Ms A said she told them at the time of the loan.
In July 2019, Ms A told NatWest about her financial difficulties. Where a customer informs a 
lender that they are having difficulty making repayments, Id expect that business to act 
positively and sympathetically and look at what they can do to assist their customer. But 
there isnt a set definition of what this will look like or a requirement that a business must 
take specific action. One thing a business might consider is suspending interest or charges 
on an account, while someone is in financial difficulties. But a business isnt obliged to do 
this.
When Ms A spoke to NatWest they discussed a payment holiday or repayment plan. At this 
point I can see Ms A looked to contact a not for profit debt advice body. And NatWest placed 
Ms As account on hold pending contact from this body. In later contact they offered to open 
an access bank account for Ms A to help her financial situation, but Ms A didnt want to 
change the accounts she had. 
An option is the freezing of interest and charges, NatWest said theyd followed their usual 
process by continuing to apply interest  as they wouldnt normally stop doing so until an 
account was with their recoveries department. Ive considered whether NatWest could have 
looked to move Ms As account to their recoveries department to potentially stop further 
interest. But this action would have been taken when NatWest felt the situation was unlikely 
to improve. I can see that Ms A, in the main continued to repay the loan repayments each 
month. So, by not moving the account it allowed for Ms As circumstances to potentially 
change (money recovered from her ex-partner) or an alternative arrangement to be agreed 
(financial statement from the not for profit advise body), which might have resulted in the 
account not reaching the recoveries department and continuing under the original terms.
So, with that in mind, and given the interest and charges applied to the loan seem to have
been added in line with the terms and conditions of the relevant credit agreement, in the
circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable of NatWest to take the action they did. 
I can see that Ms A asked for a repayment plan in July and September 2019. Where 
someone is experiencing financial difficulties and a repayment proposal is made, Id expect a 
lender to consider this. But a business isnt obliged to just accept a repayment proposal. I 
think it would be entitled to think about the amount outstanding and the offer made, how long 
that would extend indebtedness by, whether that was acceptable to it and to look at whether 
that plan itself was affordable to the customer. I can see that when Ms A requested a 
repayment plan NatWest considered her  income expenditure and this information 
suggested this wouldnt be affordable. So, I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably or that it 
was unfair in rejecting a repayment plan. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
But from checking Ms As loan account I can see she continued to make her monthly 
repayments. Although she did fall into some arrears, I cant see her account reaching a 
stage where it could have been defaulted. There continued to be engagement between Ms A 
and NatWest and NatWest provided a two-month payment holiday for Ms A in May 2020. I 
can also see a repayment plan was set up later in the year as well. I know Ms A will be disappointed by my decision. But overall, I think the loan was affordable 
at the time it was approved, and that NatWest hadnt acted irresponsibly in lending to her. I 
also think they have tried to help Ms A while she was experiencing financial difficulty. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman