DRN-2376654
The complaint
Mr Ls complained about delays by Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) in paying him compensation 
after theyd upheld his claims in relation to mis-selling of, and commission relating to, 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2014, BOS wrote to Mr L and invited him to complete a questionnaire to see whether the 
PPI in relation to a loan hed taken out was appropriate.  Mr L didnt reply  so BOS sent him 
a reminder the following month.  Mr L still didnt reply, so BOS closed the case.
In 2019, Mr L instructed a claims management company to make a claim on his behalf.  
BOS made a payment to Mr L in respect of the commission aspect of the claim.  But they 
said that the PPI aspect was time barred.
In September 2019, Mr L contacted BOS to challenge the time bar.  He explained why hed 
not pursued the claim in 2014.  BOS accepted that his circumstances were exceptional and 
reopened his claim.  They told Mr L it would take about eight weeks to deal with.  There was 
a delay.  But in mid-December 2019, BOS made a payment to Mr L in respect of his PPI 
claim.
Shortly before he received his payment, Mr L complained to BOS about the time it was 
taking to deal with his matter, how long hed spent calling them, the difficulties in accessing 
the right specialist team and the standards of service provided by BOS staff.  BOS 
apologised and said theyd bring his concerns to the relevant managers attention.  And they 
said theyd passed his concerns to the payments to for them to resolve.
Mr L made a data subject access request (DSAR) to BOS.  He was provided with a number 
of call recordings, which he listened to.  He thought some of what he heard was 
inappropriate and made a further complaint to BOS.  BOS said that the comments hed 
heard werent directed at Mr L  but apologised for any upset theyd caused him and offered 
him £100 compensation.  And BOS paid Mr L a further £100 for not providing him with the 
best customer service.
Mr L wasnt satisfied that BOS had done enough to resolve his complaint.  So he brought it 
to our service.  Our investigator considered the evidence but concluded that the £200 offered 
by BOS in total was a fair offer to resolve his concerns.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint  but I dont think BOS need to do anything 
more than theyve already offered to do to resolve it.  Ill explain why.
I understand why BOS rejected Mr Ls claim at first.  Theyd given him the chance to make it 
in 2014.  But Mr L hadnt responded, so theyd closed it.  So I think their first response to the 
claim in 2019  that it was time barred  was reasonable.  And Ive seen that they reopened 
the claim when Mr L explained his circumstances  again I think that was reasonable.
When they reopened his claim, BOS told Mr L it would take them about eight weeks to deal 
with it.  That meant they shouldve dealt with it by 11 November 2019.  Mr L was actually 
paid on 10 December 2019.  BOS have said that, at that time, they were extremely busy 
because the PPI deadline in August 2019 had meant theyd had a large volume to deal with.  
I think thats a reasonable explanation for the delay.  
Ive looked at Mr Ls records of his calls to BOS.  He complains he spent many hours on the 
phone to them.
I do understand Mr L wanted to know the outcome of his claim.  And he was entitled to 
chase BOS about that.  But Im satisfied that BOS were dealing with his claim  albeit not as 
quickly as Mr L wouldve liked.  Im not persuaded by what Ive seen that Mr L had to make 
all the calls he did to receive his award.  
And Ive considered the difficulties Mr L says he had in getting through to the specialist team 
he needed to.  Its not my role to say how BOS should set up their call handling system.  But 
the calls Ive listened to include a number which included transferring Mr L to the team he 
wanted to speak to.  So Im satisfied that Mr L could speak to the people he wanted to but  
again  not as quickly as he wanted to.
Ive thought about how BOS dealt with Mr L.  Theyve accepted that they could have 
improved their service to him.  And theyve paid him £100 compensation  and offered him a 
further £100 which, to date, Mr L hasnt accepted.
I understand why Mr L hasnt accepted this.  But I think a total of £200 is a reasonable 
amount of compensation for the shortcomings in this case.  For that reason, I think BOS 
should pay Mr L the £100 they offered him in their letter of 3 June 2020  in addition to the 
£100 theyve already paid him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about Bank of Scotland plc and 
directing them to pay him the £100 they offered on 3 June 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman