DRN-2866856
The complaint
Mr D complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) recorded a 
claimable incident on external databases which means its now more expensive for him to 
get insurance. Mr D is also unhappy with the customer service received in connection with 
this.
Mr D was represented in this claim by a family member who was also a named driver on the 
policy, but for ease, in this decision Ill refer to their actions/comments as those of Mr D.
What happened
Mr D took out a car insurance policy with Advantage. The Advantage policy was 
administered by a third party, company S. For ease in this decision, where company S was 
acting on behalf of Advantage, I will refer to its actions as those of Advantage.
In February 2020 Mr D contacted Advantage and company S as he believed hed damaged 
the insured car when hed driven through a flooded area.
As a result of this conversation, Advantage opened a claim. But soon after Mr D rang to 
discuss things further and decided to withdraw the claim.
Shortly after this, Mr D cancelled the policy as he was seeking to insure a new car that hed 
purchased to replace the damaged one. Mr D decided to take out a different policy with 
another provider, who Ill refer to as company G. But not very long after the new policy 
started, he was told the new policy had been cancelled by company G because hed failed to 
declare the above claim. Mr D was then told it would cost him significantly more money for a 
replacement car insurance policy.
Mr D was unhappy and contacted company G, Advantage and company S, to try to resolve 
the issue. When he wasnt able to do so, he complained to all three businesses.
Mr D specific complaint to Advantage was that he thought that, because he withdrew his 
claim, it shouldnt have remained on his record. He initially felt that Advantage had provided 
inaccurate information which led to company G to cancel his new policy. Mr D was also 
unhappy with the customer service hed received when raising the claim and trying to 
resolve things. He felt certain staff members had been unhelpful, provided limited 
information and kept him on the phone for hours.
Advantage didnt uphold his complaint. It told him that regardless of whether the repairs were 
made, or payments taken, the incident he reported would still be recorded as a notification-
only incident on the Claims Underwriting Exchange database (CUE) - the central database 
used by insurers for recording claims information.
Mr D didnt agree and so he brought his complaint to our service. After looking into things, 
our investigator didnt uphold the complaint against Advantage. They noted that insurers are 
obliged to record notification only incidents on CUE and so they didnt think Advantage had 
done anything wrong.
Mr D disagreed with their findings. He didnt think it was fair Advantage had notified CUE 
when it was a general enquiry and he didnt make a claim. Mr D also then said he should 
have been told about the fact hed have to disclose the incident with future insurers. 
He noted that he was being penalised when it was in fact the named driver who had made 
the enquiry about damage to the car. Mr D also noted that company G had said a claim had 
been recorded, not just a notification incident. Mr D also told our service hed been offered 
£35 compensation by Advantage which showed theyd made a mistake.
Finally, Mr D said he didnt feel his concerns about the customer service had been 
addressed by either Advantage or our investigator.
So, the matter was passed to me to decide. I issued provisional findings so that both parties 
had the opportunity to comment before a final decision was issued. In brief, I said that whilst 
they were unable to resolve Mr Ds concerns, I didnt think the staff were unhelpful. I agreed 
with our investigator that Advantage hadnt done anything wrong in the way it had recorded 
the incident.
Advantage didnt have anything to add following my provisional decision. 
Mr D said he wasnt happy with my provisional decision. Mr D felt Advantages actions 
caused him a lot of problems and this was the reason hed had to pay more for his 
insurance. Mr D said he felt he should be compensated for Advantages mistakes. He raised 
the following specific points:
When he first phoned Advantage at 5:30pm in late February 2020, he was told to call 
back in the morning as the call handler was about to go home. 
Mr D said when he rang back the next day hed only enquired if the damage was 
covered by his insurance, but he never made a claim. 
Mr D also said that he was later told by a call handler that they would get in touch 
with CUE to get the claim removed and replaced with a notification incident. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I will only consider the actions and decisions that Advantage was ultimately 
responsible for. I appreciate there are a lot of businesses involved in Mr Ds complaint, but 
its important to separate out what each business did so that I can fairly decide if they have 
acted reasonably. I will consider the actions of the other businesses Mr D is unhappy with in 
separate decisions.
Everyone agrees that Mr D didnt claim for any losses on his insurance in February 2020. 
But an incident did happen  Mr Ds car was damaged when he drove through flood water. 
This incident was recorded on CUE in what Advantage has called a notification incident. 
But what company G later referred to as a claim.
Company G found out about this incident because of information recorded on the 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database. This is a shared database which 
insurers can sign up to. And if signed up, an insurer will make a record of any incident its made aware of whether or not this leads to a claim because it has a responsibility to do so. 
Other insurers can then see this information and use it when assessing future applications, 
as happened here.
So, whilst Mr D didnt think Advantage should have logged the incident, as no claim was 
made, Im satisfied it was signed up to CUE and therefore obliged to record this incident, 
regardless of the fact that no claim was ultimately made. With this in mind, I dont think 
Advantage made a mistake here.
Mr D was also unhappy that Advantage didnt explain that the incident would stay on record 
and would need to be declared. But it isnt for Advantage to tell him what he should declare 
in future applications as this is dependent on the question asked by future insurers. 
I appreciate why Mr D would have preferred to have been told the incident was being 
recorded on CUE. But Im satisfied that the privacy notice for his policy does clearly state 
information may be shared with this register. So, I wouldnt go so far as to say it acted 
unfairly or that Mr D was disadvantaged because of this. I say this because insurers in 
general dont ask consumers questions about what is recorded on CUE, they ask broad 
questions about a consumers driving history, insurance and claims history and 
circumstances which consumers should be able to answer. So, Mr D shouldnt be 
disadvantaged by knowing what is or is not recorded on CUE.
I appreciate thats exactly what Mr D thinks has happened here, but any concerns Mr D has 
about the questions company G asked him need to be considered in his complaint against 
company G. Here Im satisfied that Advantage hasnt made an error.
Mr D also thinks Advantage made a mistake in how this incident was recorded given 
company G found evidence of a claim.
I think it would be helpful to explain that CUE is a central database which is used, accessed 
and updated by many companies. The information is used and processed differently by 
different companies. This can lead to simplifications and different terms being used by those 
companies, or even individuals within those companies, compared to those that are actually 
recorded on the database itself.
For example, some companies may refer to all incidents, even those that are notification 
only as claims, they might simply call this a notification claim or a withdrawn claim. 
Similarly, the term fault can cause some confusion here. CUE itself doesnt actually record 
incidents as fault or non-fault. What it does record is whether the no claims bonus has 
been allowed or disallowed and this is often referred to as fault or non-fault.
So, I think a lot of the confusion was caused by the differing terms used by the different 
insurers and employees speaking with Mr D.
I have confirmed with CUE directly that the incident was recorded as a closed claim 
withdrawn, with Mr Ds no claims bonus allowed. And this is what Id expect to have been 
recorded  so I dont think Advantage has done anything wrong in how its recorded this 
incident on CUE.
Mr D has raised the fact that a call handler told them they would amend CUE and that the 
incident was then changed from a claim to a notification incident. Ive listened to this call and 
I think Mr D may have misunderstood what was being explained here due to his lack of 
familiarity with CUE and how claims are recorded. Id agree that the call handler clarified that 
it was normal procedure for open claims to be recorded as fault initially and that this had 
happened for Mr Ds claim. But she didnt say shed arrange to change this. Instead, she confirmed that the claim was now logged as a closed, notification only with the claim not 
having gone through. So, it was recorded correctly. 
As outlined above, a claim was initially opened following discussions with Mr D  something 
which, having listened to the calls, Im satisfied Mr D did agree to. At this stage, it would 
have been accurate for Advantage to record this incident as an open fault claim  something 
the call handler tried to explain to Mr D. However, Mr D then changed his mind and the claim 
was withdrawn. And the evidence indicates CUE was updated to reflect this. So, Im not 
persuaded Advantage made any mistakes in how it recorded this claim on CUE.
Moving onto Mr Ds concerns about the customer service he received. Mr D provided us with 
a list of names of the people he spoke with that he was unhappy with, as well as details of 
the conversations. However, whilst Mr D thought he was just speaking with one business 
about his claim, he was in fact speaking with Advantage, company S and what I suspect 
may have been a third connected company, which Ill call company H. In this complaint, I 
can only consider the service Mr D received from Advantage directly.
Of the names Mr D provided to our service, I have identified that several were Advantage 
employees. And I have been provided with and listened to some of the relevant calls.
Mr D has told us he found the staff members unhelpful, that he was put on hold a lot and he
felt they had limited information. But from the calls Ive listened to, I cannot agree with Mr D 
that the staff were unhelpful. I appreciate they were unable to resolve the issue Mr D was 
having with the cancelled insurance but, given that I dont think this was Advantages fault, I 
wouldnt expect them to be able to do so. This doesnt mean they were unhelpful, they just 
werent able to do what Mr D wanted them to.
I think some of the issues Mr D had with being kept on hold were likely connected with the 
number of businesses involved. But I also think some of this was due to confusion over what 
had caused Mr Ds problems and the different terms being used as explained above.
Mr D has now raised the fact he had to call back after initially calling Advantage in 
February 2020. He told us the call handler was leaving for the day. It appears Mr D is 
unhappy with this. I can understand why, from Mr Ds perspective, this would be 
inconvenient for him. But I dont think its unreasonable for a call handler who doesnt have 
time to deal with an enquiry to politely explain this. Unfortunately, I havent been able to 
listen to this specific call recording as it couldnt be traced. I would note that when Mr D 
previously raised concerns about the conduct of various staff, this call handler wasnt one of 
people he complained about. On balance, had this call handler been rude, I think Mr D would 
have raised this with either Advantage or our service sooner. So, whilst I recognise it would 
have been better service if the call handler had been able to help Mr D there and then, Im 
not persuaded this call handler provided bad service. And I dont think Advantage needs to 
take further steps to put things right. 
I dont doubt that all of this was incredibly frustrating for Mr D, but I dont think Advantage did 
anything wrong here. It seems to me that Advantage made efforts to provide Mr D with the 
additional information he requested to raise his concerns with company G, albeit not always 
as quickly as Mr D wanted. But given he was able to provide company G with the letter it 
requested within the timescales specified, I dont think Advantage took an unreasonable 
amount of time dealing with his request.
I appreciate Advantage offered Mr D £35 and Mr D considers this an admission that 
something went wrong. But I think it did so in an effort to resolve his complaint and as a 
gesture of goodwill. Ive listened to the call where this was offered. The call handler is clear 
that they didnt think Advantage had done anything wrong. So, Im not persuaded it needed to offer this or that this offer was an admission of fault. For all of these reasons this isnt a 
payment I intend to direct Advantage to make.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman