DRN-3136931
The complaint
Mr M says Progressive Money Limited irresponsibly lent to him when it provided an 
unaffordable loan. 
What happened
Progressive provided the following loan to Mr M:
Date 
loan 
takenLoan 
amountScheduled 
termMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayableLoan 
status
8.11.2018 £5,000 60 months £179.85 £10,791.20 Active
When Mr M complained to Progressive it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt think that 
Progressive had done anything wrong when it provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained 
why he was recommending that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.   
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view. He mainly said that irrespective of what hed 
verbally disclosed to Progressive, it should have been apparent that this loan was 
unaffordable given his debt to income ratio which was evident from his credit file and his 
financial situation as shown on his bank statements and other supporting information 
provided. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to me to 
decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Id like to reassure Mr M that I've 
looked at the complaint afresh and independently reviewed all the available information, 
including what Mr M said in response to our adjudicators view. Having done so, I am not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my 
reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
When Mr M applied for this loan, Progressive asked him for information about his finances 
and carried out a credit check. I've carefully listened to the call recording of Mr Ms 
discussion with Progressive when it gathered information about his income and expenditure. 
I think its fair to say this was a detailed and lengthy discussion over the course of an hour or 
so. Progressive pressed Mr M for specific details about exactly what the loans it saw in his 
credit history had been taken out for and how he spent his money.   
Progressive subsequently took steps to check what hed said about his salary.  
Taking all this into account, the figures Progressive recorded didnt suggest that Mr M would 
have any difficulty meeting the loan repayments for this loan. It looked like Mr M shouldve 
had ample disposable income to cover the £179.85 instalment he had signed up to pay each 
month.  
The credit checks Progressive carried out showed that Mr M wasnt involved in any sort of 
arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county court 
judgements registered and no record of any recent defaults on his record. Mr Ms debt to 
income ratio was shown as 90% - which I think a lender might reasonably assume showed 
that he had available unused credit. Mr M says Progressive shouldve known he was in 
financial difficulties at the time it lent to him and hes sent us more information to support 
what he says. But I think that the information Progressive had gathered tended to suggest 
that Mr M seemed to be managing his credit without any signs that he had a serious debt 
problem. Whilst the credit checks Progressive obtained showed that Mr M made significant 
use of credit, it wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have 
other debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. These wouldnt necessarily be 
fair reasons not to lend. 
And having listened to Mr Ms detailed and plausible explanations about his borrowing, 
I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mr Ms credit checks was excessive having regard 
to the fact that he said hed recently bought and moved into a bigger, more expensive house, 
hed had the extra costs of a new baby and he and his partner had bought a second car. 
I've thought carefully about what Mr M told Progressive about his spending on gambling. 
I think Progressive was rightly concerned that if Mr M was spending excessively on 
gambling, this would mean it shouldnt lend to him. But Mr M very clearly explained that the 
gambling that Progressive would see on his bank statements was essentially something he 
and his work colleagues engaged in from time to time when working away from home on 
well paid jobs earning up to £400 per day. He said the total monthly spend wasnt ever more 
than about £500.
Id expect Progressive to decide Mr Ms lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit 
search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. This means that information Mr M might see on his own 
credit check, may not have been identified by a credit check done by Progressive when he 
applied for this loan. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Progressive to lend here  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr M wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required 
Progressive to probe any more deeply into Mr Ms finances or ask Mr M to prove what he 
was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted 
to say) about his financial circumstances. 
I dont think Progressive had any reason to think that Mr M wouldnt be able to sustainably 
repay the loan and it went ahead only when it had provided information explaining the main 
loan costs and Mr M said he wanted to proceed. Im very sorry that Mr M has an ongoing 
problem with debt and that repaying this loan has proved difficult for him. I accept that 
Mr Ms actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Progressive obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint 
I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, I dont think that 
Progressive did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr M. 
I expect Progressive to work with Mr M and to treat him positively and sympathetically if he is 
continuing to experience financial difficulty. I would encourage Mr M to provide full details of 
his financial situation to Progressive if he still needs time to pay the outstanding balance on 
the loan. And if Mr M would like help to manage his finances theres more information about 
how to get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if he gives us a call. 
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr M. But I hope my 
explanations help him understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman