DRN-4346601
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, (Clydesdale) 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr C opened a credit card account with Clydesdale in November 2020 with a credit limit of 
£4,400. His credit limit was increased in August 2021 to £8,800. 
In May 2023, Mr C complained to Clydesdale about its decision to lend to him. He said the 
credit limit was too high and that if Clydesdale had completed checks on him it would have 
realised that he couldnt afford the credit.
 
While Clydesdale didnt think it had lent irresponsibly to Mr C it did offer to pause for a short 
while the interest it was charging Mr C as a gesture of good will.
Mr C didnt think this was enough, so he referred his case to this service. 
When our investigator reviewed Mr Cs complaint, they thought that it should be upheld. 
They thought that Clydesdale ought to have completed more thorough checks of Mr Cs 
circumstances before it lent to him. And they thought if Clydesdale had done so, it would 
have realised Mr C couldnt afford the additional borrowing. Our investigator recommended 
Clydesdale pay back to Mr C the interest and charges he had incurred.
Clydesdale didnt agree. It said there was no evidence Mr C was in financial difficulty and 
that it conducted adequate checks.
 
As Clydesdale didnt agree with that view the case has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain my 
decision.
Clydesdale needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. Those 
reasonable steps should include necessary and proportionate checks to establish that Mr C 
could afford the lending. Clydesdale has made robust submissions about what those 
reasonable steps should have been.
The checks Clydesdale need to do arent prescriptive but could take into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, how much Mr C was borrowing 
elsewhere, the repayment amounts and Mr Cs income and expenditure. There may even 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr C declared and annual income of £30,000. He also declared that his total household 
income was £54,000. Clydesdale says that although it used the household income for its 
calculations of affordability, it calculated that Mr C could manage the repayments on his own. 
Clydesdale used credit bureau data and general data about expenditure to establish Mr Cs 
day-to-day expenses. This included information about his existing credit commitments. It 
noted that Mr C had no defaults, arrears or County Court Judgments on his credit file.
Those checks showed that Mr C owed over £18,300 to other creditors, the repayments on 
which took up a significant proportion  45% - of his own monthly income. 
While Clydesdale says that it was entitled to take into account the household income when 
assessing Mr Cs ability to repay the new borrowing it didnt have any understanding of the 
other persons financial circumstances. CONC5.2a.12 says that a firm can use income from 
savings or assets jointly held with another person, income received jointly with another 
person or income received by another person in so far as it is reasonable to expect such 
income to be available to the customer to make repayments under the agreement. I havent 
seen that Clydesdale was in a position to understand whether this was the case. Mr C 
explains that his partner was unaware of his borrowing, or of his gambling which he explains 
was the cause of much of his financial difficulties. And from the information provided by Mr C 
I can see that the only financial connection between Mr C and his partner was the use of a 
joint bank account into which each deposited amounts to cover some of the household bills 
(but not all) and rent payments. So, I dont think it was reasonable of Clydesdale to assume 
that his partners income was available to help repay Mr Cs borrowing.
This is a moot point, though, as Clydesdale submits that Mr C could meet the repayments on 
the lending based on his own income of £30,000 a year gross. It calculated he had a net 
disposable income of around £420 a month. However, on the basis of the information 
Clydesdale had about Mr Cs external borrowing, I think it ought to have conducted further 
checks on Mr Cs income and essential expenditure to better understand whether Mr C could 
afford the credit card.
There is no prescriptive list of checks a business should do, so I dont know with certainty 
what any further checks Clydesdale chose to do would have shown. In the absence of any 
other evidence, I think its reasonable to consider evidence Mr C has provided of his financial 
circumstances at the time, including bank statements from his sole accounts and his joint 
account as well as his credit report.
From these, I understand that Mr C would have needed to use over 45% of his net income 
each month to meet his credit repayments on a sustainable basis. This takes into account 
that Mr C would be benefitting from a period of 0% interest when he transferred some of his 
other debts to his new credit card. When also taking into account that Mr C could have 
continued to use his existing credit cards (because the opening of the new credit card was 
not conditional on him closing those lines of credit) and the spare credit available on his 
Clydesdale credit card following the transfers, Mr C would have needed to commit 
significantly more than 50% of his income each month to makes sustainable repayments.Having reviewed all Mr Cs bank statements I calculate that once essential household 
expenditure and credit repayments were taken into account, Mr C would have been left with 
a disposable income of around £150 a month. He had two dependent children. I dont think 
£150 a month was enough to safely allow Mr C to sustainably meet his credit commitments 
and to manage other expenses that can reasonably be anticipated in such circumstances. I 
think if Clydesdale had conducted appropriate and proportionate checks it would have 
considered the new lending to be unaffordable for Mr C.
Mr Cs credit limit was substantially increased about nine months later. I think its reasonable 
to consider that the very large increase warranted further checks, too.  I havent been 
provided with evidence of the checks Clydesdale completed at that time. I have seen some 
evidence from Mr Cs credit file at the time. It doesnt appear that his circumstances had 
changed significantly for the better by this time and, in fact, he had taken additional lending, 
too.
So, on balance, I dont think Clydesdale conducted appropriate and proportionate checks 
when it came to the credit increase, either. 
I think Mr C lost out as a result of what Clydesdale did wrong when it allowed him to open 
the account and when it increased his credit limit.
Putting things right
As I dont think Clydesdale out to have opened the account, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But Mr C has had the 
benefit of all the money he spent on the account I think he should pay that back. Therefore, 
Clydesdale should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees and charges that have been applied 
(and not already refunded).
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr C along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Clydesdale should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr C for the remaining amount.
Once the balance has been cleared, any adverse information in relation to the 
account should be removed from Mr Cs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Clydesdale to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as Virgin Money, to pay 
compensation as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman