DRN-1979297
The complaint
Mr J complains that the car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr J acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo. The car was four-years old and had a mileage of 89,000.
Around two weeks after the car had been supplied to Mr J it went into limp mode and the 
engine management light (EML) illuminated on the dashboard. Mr J returned the car to the 
dealership who cleared a fault code. The car was returned to Mr J but within a short time the 
EML again illuminated and the car went into limp mode.
Mr J says that the dealership wasnt willing to assist him despite him making numerous visits 
and calls. He says he was told he would have to provide evidence that the fault with the car 
had been present from the point of sale.
In both June and August 2019, the car had some recall work completed at a manufacturer 
approved garage. After these repairs he was informed that the car had a fault with its EGR 
valve. He says he checked the paperwork that had been supplied with the car and found that 
EGR valve had originally been diagnosed as faulty in 2017 during a health check. Mr J says 
that on making further enquiries he was advised no repairs to the EGR valve had been 
carried out under warranty.
In June 2019 Mr J also took the car to a third-party garage for a diagnostic. He says he was 
informed the car had a fault with the EGR valve and also with the mass air flow sensor. He 
says the engineer did call MotoNovo to explain the findings. Mr J wasnt supplied with any 
diagnostic report from this visit.
Mr J contacted the dealership but, after several months and no resolution, he decided to 
complain to MotoNovo in January 2020. The dealership then agreed to repair the EGR valve 
under the warranty.
The car was returned to Mr J after the repair but, after driving it for only a very short 
distance, the EML again illuminated. Mr J returned the car to the dealership but was told that 
the fault with the mass air flow sensor was a separate matter to the EGR valve. Mr J 
complained again to MotoNovo and said he now wanted to reject the car.
MotoNovo partially upheld Mr Js complaint as it agreed the fault with the EGR valve had 
been present since the point of sale but said the second fault involving the air flow sensor 
was new. MotoNovo said it had consulted an independent engineer who had confirmed there 
would be no correlation between the fault with the EGR valve and any fault with the air flow 
sensor. MotoNovo said that it had also taken into account that Mr J had now had the car for 
over 12 months and been able to drive an additional 13,000 miles in that time. It offered to 
pay £25 per day for up to seven days for a hire car to assist Mr J in keeping mobile.
Mr J disagreed with MotoNovos view and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld, and that Mr J be allowed to reject the 
car.
Our investigator said that she thought it was more likely than not that the fault with the mass 
air flow sensor was linked to the fault with the EGR valve. She acknowledged that it wasnt 
possible to say when this second fault had developed. Mr J had said he had been told of this 
fault in June 2019 by the third-party garage, but neither of the cars inspections at the 
manufacturer approved garage in June and August 2019 had revealed this fault, nor had it 
come to light during the repairs carried out by the dealership in January 2020. However, the 
investigator said that as the car had broken down almost immediately after the repair to the 
EGR valve this second fault had to have been in existence prior to those repairs. 
Although the independent engineer had reported that there would be no link between the 
EGR valve and the air flow sensor the investigator said she had undertaken her own 
research which had revealed that a faulty EGR valve could affect the functioning of the mass 
air flow sensor.
Our investigator said that the significant delay in repairing the EGR valve had meant that the 
point at which the mass air flow sensor had become faulty couldnt be pinpointed. This delay 
also made it impossible to say whether the fault with the mass air sensor could have been 
avoided had the EGR valve been repaired when first raised by Mr J.
Our investigator said it would be fair for Mr J to reject the car, have his deposit reimbursed 
with interest and, as the car hadnt been usable since March 2020, any payments made after 
this date should also be repaid. She said she also thought that £200 compensation would be 
reasonable for the trouble and upset caused to Mr J having to deal with the faulty car.
MotoNovo disagreed with our investigators opinion. It said there was no evidence of any 
correlation between the fault with the EGR valve and the air flow meter. It says the fault with 
the air flow meter is a new problem and there is no evidence it was present or developing at 
the point of sale.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking  at this complaint  I need  to have  regard  to the relevant  law and regulations,  but I 
am not bound  by them  when  I consider  what  is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase  agreement  entered  into by Mr J is a regulated  consumer  
credit  agreement  this service  is able to consider  complaints  relating  to it. 
MotoNovo  is also the supplier  of the goods  under  this type of agreement,  and 
responsible  for a complaint  about  their quality.
Under  the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015  there  is an implied  term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods  is satisfactory".  The relevant  law says  that the 
quality  of the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet  the standard  that a reasonable  person  
would  consider  satisfactory  taking  into account  any description  of the goods,  price  and 
all other  relevant  circumstances.The relevant  law also says  that the quality  of the goods  includes  their general  state  
and condition,  and other  things  like their fitness  for purpose,  appearance  and finish,  
freedom  from minor  defects,  safety,  and durability  can be aspects  of the quality  of the 
goods.
Here,  the car wasn't  new being  four-years  old with a mileage  of 89,000.  So, I think  a 
reasonable  person  would  have  expected  there  to be issues  with maintenance  and repair  
after a reasonable  period  of time had passed  from the point  of sale.  However,  the car 
developed  a fault within  the first few weeks  of Mr J acquiring  it. And I dont  think  its 
disputed  that the fault with EGR  valve  was either  developing  or present  from the point  of 
sale.  This fault was fixed  by the dealership  though  it took a considerable  length  of time 
for it to do so and Im unclear  why there  was this delay.  
MotoNovo  says  there  is no evidence  that the fault with the EGR  valve  is connected  to 
the fault with the mass  air flow sensor.   It relies  on the opinion  provided  by the 
independent  engineer.  It also says  this was confirmed  by a manufacturers  technician  
and, though  this is a comment  noted  in MotoNovos  investigation  notes,  I havent  seen  
written  confirmation  of this by the manufacturer.  
However,  Ive been  able to confirm  the research  of our investigator  and so Ive seen  that 
there  is a contrary  opinion  to that given  by the independent  engineer.  That is that a 
faulty  EGR  valve  will have  an impact  on the mass  air flow sensor.  So, I think  its 
reasonable  to say that there  can be a correlation  between  the two faults  Mr Js car has 
suffered  with.  
MotoNovo says that Mr J didnt raise the mass air flow sensor fault at the time he 
complained to it in January 2020, and that he only complained about the EGR valve. It also 
says that there is no evidence that the fault with the mass air flow sensor was located in 
June 2019, it wasnt identified by the manufacturer approved garage that undertook work on 
the car in either June or August 2020.
So, while there is clear evidence of the fault with EGR valve, and that this caused problems 
after only two weeks of Mr J having the car, the evidence about the mass air flow fault is 
contradictory or missing. And where evidence isnt clear then I have to decide what I think is 
the most thing to have happened. 
Ive seen that when the manufacturer approved garage diagnosed the problem with the EGR 
valve it says it did tell Mr J that if he continued to drive the car without having it repaired it 
could cause further damage to the car. And I have seen that a faulty EGR valve can have an 
effect on the mass air flow. However, although I accept Mr J did still use the car, I dont think 
I can reasonably say that any damage to the mass air flow sensor is attributable only to Mr 
Js use and/or that use was unreasonable. This is because from the evidence it appears that 
the fault with EGR valve was longstanding. Im also not surprised that Mr J continued to use 
the car as he had pressing personal reasons for needing to do so, and the dealership 
appears to have been very unhelpful to him in resolving the fault with the EGR valve.
This significant delay in having the EGR valve repaired has meant it isnt possible to pinpoint 
when the fault with the mass air flow sensor developed, though I agree with our investigator 
that it had certainly developed prior to the car being repaired in January 2020.  
I dont know why Mr J didnt raise the fault with the mass air flow sensor with MotoNovo 
when he complained in January 2020, but I dont think that means this fault didnt exist at 
that point. I also dont think that because the fault with the mass air flow sensor wasnt 
picked up when the car had work undertaken in June and August 2019 by the manufacturers approved garage, this means that I can reasonably say the fault didnt exist 
at that point. It also wasnt picked up by the dealership in January 2020.
MotoNovo says there was an outstanding recall regarding the inlet manifold and that, 
according to the manufacturer, could be related to the issues Mr J has had with the car, but 
not necessarily so. It says the car would require a physical inspection to find out what repairs 
were required. However, I dont think an independent inspection would be fair and 
reasonable at this point, as I think there is sufficient evidence that the car has faults and that 
these have continued to impact on the cars performance from shortly after Mr J acquired it. 
Although the car has had one repair to the EGR valve it continues to go into limp mode and 
the EML illuminates. 
I think I have sufficient evidence to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point 
of sale. It had a fault with the EGR and that this fault is more likely than not linked to the fault 
with mass air flow sensor. The dealership had an opportunity to repair the car and didnt do 
so. I think its reasonable for Mr J to now reject the car.
Putting things right
So, for the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Js complaint and Im asking MotoNovo to 
do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr J.
Reimburse Mr Js deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from 
the date of payment until the date settlement.
Reimburse any monthly payments paid by Mr J after March 2020 together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr J £200 compensation of the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused 
by dealing with the faulty car.
Remove this financial agreement from Mr Js credit file.
My final decision
As set out above Im upholding Mr Js complaint. Im asking MotoNovo Finance Limited to do 
the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no cost to Mr J.
Reimburse Mr Js deposit together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from 
the date of payment until the date settlement.
Reimburse any monthly payments paid by Mr J after March 2020 together with 
interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr J £200 compensation of the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused 
by dealing with the faulty car.
Remove this financial agreement from Mr Js credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman