DRN-3799673
The complaint
Mrs A complains about Scottish Widows Limited, referred to as the business.  
In summary, she says:
She wasnt told about the drawdown option on her annuity, and if it was, it wasnt 
explained to her fully. 
If the business had, she wouldve opted to drawdown. She wanted a larger amount of 
money, than the tax-free cash available with the annuity.    
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The business informed Mrs A of the option to take her pension by income drawdown 
rather than by purchasing an annuity. 
It explained how a drawdown worked, by comparison, so that Mrs A was able to 
make an informed decision. 
He listened to the telephone call referred to by the business in its final response letter 
(FRL), where Mrs A discussed taking her pension benefits. 
oThe businesss summary of the key part is accurate  it clearly described how 
the flexible income drawdown option worked, and how it differed to an 
annuity. 
The business sent Mrs A correspondence before, and after the call, informing her of 
the different options for taking her pension benefits. 
oOn 3 February 2015, it sent her a retirement options pack that explained the 
income drawdown option. 
oOn 23 July 2015, it sent her a quotation as well as reminder of the alternative 
options to purchasing an annuity. 
Although Pension Freedom legislation had only recently taken effect, it was publicly 
announced in March 2014. 
In the intervening period, the regulator provided rules and guidance to businesses on 
what they needed to do to ensure customers were treated fairly. So, the business 
had adequate time to prepare for the introduction of this legislation. 
Hes seen nothing to suggest that it lacked an understanding of the legislation, which 
mightve impacted the information it provided to Mrs A about her options. 
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
The business shouldve explained in more detail the option to take her pension 
benefit via an income drawdown, so she doesnt agree that it was explained clearly. 
She didnt receive the documentation sent to her by the business. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
The business offered Mrs A the option to discuss income drawdown in more detail, 
but she declined, and didnt raise any further queries. Therefore, the business 
wouldnt have known whether or not she understood the information or needed more 
help. In the circumstances, and on balance, the business had no obligation to go 
further than providing this information.  
The written correspondence was sent to the address that Mrs A resides at and 
confirmed that she resides at. 
The email and social media post that prompted Mrs A to complain hasnt been 
provided, therefore he cant say its relevant, and it wouldnt be fair to assume that it 
was.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for substantially the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs A says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably, such that its responsible for paying 
compensation.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I recognise Mrs As 
strength of feeling about this matter. Shes provided submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mrs A, and Scottish Widows, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation, and best industry
practice. But its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more
likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs A says, Im satisfied that the 
business provided her with the relevant information regarding her options, which was clear, 
fair, and not misleading.
As outlined by the investigator, Im satisfied that the business made clear the options 
available to Mrs A. It made reasonably clear her option to take her pension income by 
drawdown, rather than by purchasing an annuity. In other words, Im satisfied it broadly 
explained and discussed, the flexible income drawdown option by comparison.
Im satisfied that the business did so in writing and over the June 2015 phone call in 
question, when it highlighted that Mrs A could speak to someone about alternative option(s).  
I note that Mrs A didnt raise any queries, despite now saying that she couldve taken out the 
lump sum to help her daughter  rather than taking a monthly payment.  Based on what she said, it seems that Mrs A had, more or less, made up her mind about 
what she wanted, namely a 25% (tax free) lump sum and the rest by way of monthly 
payments. I note she planned to go and live abroad and wanted some extra money to top up 
her income  she was aware it was unlikely to be much, but said it was better than nothing. 
I note the business made clear that it couldnt advise Mrs A about what she should do. Mrs A 
confirmed that she had a financial adviser, and that she was good with figures, but she was 
still told to speak to her adviser if she was unsure of anything, as she was likely to be making 
one of the biggest decisions going into retirement. On balance, I dont think the business has 
done anything wrong by not (voluntarily) going into more detail over the phone at the time.   
I agree with the investigator that if Mrs A didnt ask for further information/clarification, the 
business was unlikely to know if she needed it, therefore it wasnt obliged to do any more. In 
other words, it was entitled to think that Mrs A had no issue regarding the information and/or 
her options and was well placed to make an informed decision or seek advice if she needed 
it.  
I note after hearing about the potential tax deductions in respect of a single lump sum 
payment, Mrs A said no, thats not an option and later said to be honest, I dont think itll 
be the lump sum bit. She took down the tax office number in case she wanted to discuss it. 
But the Flexible Income Drawdown was really the one that she wanted to talk about. 
Im also satisfied that Mrs A was sent the relevant information before and after the call with 
the business, therefore she had a reasonable opportunity to raise an issue or seek further 
clarification if thats what she wanted to do. 
I note Mrs A says that she didnt receive the letters sent by the business, and Im aware that 
letters can go missing in the post. Whilst its possible that there mightve been an issue with 
the post on this occasion  and thats why she (purportedly) didnt receive any  Im not 
aware of there being an issue. So, in the circumstances, and on balance, I cant safely that 
in this instance the letters werent received/delivered to Mrs A. Even if there was an issue, I 
cant safely say that at least one of letters wouldnt have been delivered/received. 
When a (third party) business provides evidence that a letter has been written, correctly 
addressed, and sent, this service generally accepts that position. In this case Im satisfied 
the letter regarding Mrs As options were correctly addressed and sent to her, to the same 
address it had for her on file  that she also subsequently confirmed. I dont think the 
business was obliged to send the letters recorded delivery, or subsequently chase Mrs A to 
see if theyd been received. 
If there was an issue delivering the letters, resulting in Mrs A note getting a single letter  
which I think its unlikely  its not an issue I can blame the business for. In other words, in 
the absence of any evidence to the contrary, despite what Mrs A says, I cant blame the 
business for the actions of an independent third-party postal service.   
Like the investigator, I dont think Pension Freedom legislation  publicly announced in 
March 2014  had an adverse effect on the way that the business dealt with Mrs A. On the 
face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the business behaved in line with 
guidance from the industry regulator in terms of notifying her and carrying out her 
instructions. 
I appreciate Mrs A will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman