DRN-3573526
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Charterhouse Claims Limited (CCL) charged her for providing 
claims management services at a time when they were prohibited from taking on new work 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
What happened
Mrs C has instructed CCL to help her recover money in a number of claims.  At the end of 
April 2021, she asked them to make a claim against a business Ill call L.  She signed a letter 
of authority and CCL submitted a claim on her behalf.
Shortly after this, L wrote to Mrs S directly, telling her they would not deal with CCL on behalf 
of claimants, because CCL had had restrictions placed on its authorisation by the FCA in 
March 2021.  L then dealt with Mrs S directly and, in mid-July, offered her a refund of 
£651.49.  CCL were made aware of this offer and sent Mrs S an invoice for their fee of 
£273.62.
Mrs S complained to CCL that theyd taken on her claim at a time when theyd no 
authorisation from the FCA to do so and had charged her a fee when theyd not pursued her 
claim, because L had refused to deal with them.   
In response, CCL provided a copy of Ls automated acknowledgement of Mrs Ss claim.  in 
respect of their FCA authorisation, CCL said the original restriction contained an error.  But, 
once this was corrected, they were authorised to deal with her claim.  CCL said the 
restriction didnt apply to any existing client of theirs at the date it was imposed.  And as they 
were pursuing claims for Mrs S at that point, she fell into that category.
Mrs S wasnt satisfied with CCLs response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded CCL hadnt treated her fairly.  He got confirmation 
from the FCA that the restriction meant CCL could only pursue claims where their clients had 
given authority for them to do so before it came into effect.  
So the investigator said CCL had started Mrs Ss claim when they had no authority to do so.  
He thought to put things right, they should refund the fee Mrs S had paid them, along with 
simple interest calculated at the rate of 8% per annum. 
CCL didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint.  Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute here that Mrs S asked CCL for assistance in making her claim to L, or 
that CCL did start that claim.  The issue is whether CCL had FCA authorisation to do that at 
the time.
CCL say this wasnt new work, because Mrs S was previously a client.  Ive thought about 
that.  But I dont agree.  And I dont think that interpretation is consistent with the FCA 
imposing a restriction on CCL which limited them taking on new work.  I think its clear the 
FCA wanted CCL to wind down its claims management.  And I think to allow them to take on 
new work from clients theyd represented in the past contradicts that aim.
After seeking clarification, our understanding is that the restriction required CCL to run down 
all existing claims and then to continue to operate as a lead generator. And that theyd only 
process claims where the letter of authority for the claim in question was signed by the 
customer before the effective date of the restriction.
I think that makes the position clear each claim should be considered.  The restriction was 
placed on CCLs authorisation in March 2021.  Mrs S signed a letter of authority for the claim 
to L in April 2021.  So CCL started that claim when they werent authorised to do that.
Putting things right
CCL charged Mrs S a success fee equivalent to 35% of her successful claim against L.  Ive 
seen evidence she paid them £273.62 on 28 September 2021.  
But, because CCL werent authorised at the time that claim was made, I dont think its fair 
they receive a fee.  So I think CCL should refund this sum to Mrs S. 
And, because they should never have charged it, I think its fair CCL also pay Mrs S interest, 
calculated at the rate of 8% per annum, for the period shes been without those funds.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint about Charterhouse Claims 
Limited and directing them to:
refund Mrs S the £273.62 she paid them;
pay Mrs S simple interest on this amount, at the rate of 8% per annum, calculated 
from 28 September 2021 (the day she paid their invoice) until the day they make the 
refund.  
If CCL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give    
Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman