DRN-1294879
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs K took out a loan with Nationwide in 2001 over a period of 60 months. They 
were sold the PPI in connection with this loan at the same time through a postal application.
Although the loan was in both Mr and Mrs Ks names, the PPI only covered Mr K. It would 
have covered the loan repayments for the remaining term of the loan if Mr K was off work 
sick and for up to 12 months per claim if Mr K lost his job. The policy would also have paid 
the outstanding loan amount in the unfortunate event of Mr Ks death.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs K didnt 
agree with the adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs K will be disappointed with this outcome but I will explain why Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr K was eligible under the policy. Based on Mr Ks age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr K would have been 
eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs K that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs K say that if they hadnt ticked 
to take PPI then its possible they would not have received the loan.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs 
K and Nationwide have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help 
me decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
Nationwide have provided us with a copy of the loan application form and the credit 
agreement from the time of the sale. The loan application form had a section for PPI headed 
protecting your payments. This presented Mr and Mrs K with two equally clear options to 
take or refuse PPI. I note Mr and Mrs K ticked the box to take PPI. There isnt anything on 
this form to suggest that Mr and Mrs K may have been refused the loan if they didnt tick PPI. And it doesnt appear that they would have been told something different by a 
representative given that there was no representative involved in the sale as this was a 
postal sale.
The credit agreement that would have followed the application form shows that the PPI was 
again presented as optional under the heading Optional Credit Insurance and the cost of it 
was set out separately to the loan. Mr and Mrs K signed this credit agreement.
So based on the evidence available to me I think its more likely that the PPI was presented 
as optional and was added to the account because Mr and Mrs K chose to take it out.
Nationwide say they didnt advise Mr and Mrs K to take PPI. Mr and Mrs K say that if they 
hadnt ticked the box then they would have been advised. There seems to be some 
confusion on Mr and Mrs Ks part about advised/non-advised sales. To be clear when we 
say a business advised a consumer to take PPI, we mean that the business would have to 
take steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for the consumers. 
However, given that this sale place took place through a postal application with no 
involvement from a representative, I dont think Nationwide advised or would have advised 
Mr and Mrs K to take PPI. This means Nationwide didnt have to take steps to check the PPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs K. So for example, they didnt have to take into account Mr and 
Mrs Ks existing repayment provisions or consider whether the policy was affordable for Mr 
and Mrs K. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K may not agree with the principle of being sold PPI 
without a discussion, however, I cant see that Nationwide were wrong to do this.
In any event, even though they didnt advise Mr and Mrs K to take PPI, Nationwide did have 
to provide Mr and Mrs K with clear information so that they could make an informed decision 
about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Mr and  Mrs Ks 
attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy. Mr and Mrs K 
say the terms and conditions werent explained to them.
I can see the cost of the PPI was set out clearly in the credit agreement. This set out the cost 
of the premiums, the interest to be charged, the total amount as well as the monthly amount.
But its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs K the information as they should have 
about the benefits and the main exclusions in the policy. This in itself doesnt mean PPI was 
mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put them off 
taking PPI. 
I dont think knowing about the exclusions would have put Mr and Mrs K off taking the policy 
out as it doesnt seem that Mr K was affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the policy 
which would have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy if the 
need arose. 
I note that the policy would have paid out potentially for the term of loan if Mr K was off work 
sick. This was in addition to his existing sick pay and for a much longer period of time. It 
would also have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr K may have been entitled to 
and would have done so up to 12 months. So I dont think knowing better information about 
the benefits would have put Mr and Mrs K off taking PPI out. I also note that the policy would 
have provided a pro-rata refund if Mr and Mrs K no longer wanted or needed the policy.
So, having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr and  Mrs 
K this PPI policy.
My final decisionI dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman