DRN-2963527
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
number of packaged bank accounts and add on Packs. Their account history is as follows:
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account in May 1996
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions Plus in April 2004 
Migrated to a fee-free Current account with a fee-paying Tech and Travel pack in 
January 2017
Mr and Mrs J say that they did not need the benefits that these accounts came with and 
were unaware that they could have a fee-free account.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the accounts and 
Packs had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs J disagreed and so the complaint has been referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me deicide this case. I think it might help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr and Mrs J were given a fair choice to take out both 
accounts. Mr and Mrs J have said that they thought that they had to agree to these 
accounts. But I can see that they had held a fee-free account prior to the upgrade and they 
have not explained what they were told that suddenly made them believe that a fee-free 
account was not an option for them. 
They also have not explained why they changed from the Additions account to the Additions 
Active account. So overall, I have not seen enough for me to be persuaded that Mr and Mrs 
J took out the Additions and the Additions Active account due to Barclays telling them that 
fee-free accounts were unavailable. I think it is more likely than not that they agreed to these 
upgrades as they were attracted to the benefits that they came with. Let me explain why.
Additions account
In relation to this sale, when this account was taken out it cost £5 per month and came with 
an interest-free overdraft buffer zone of £100. The major benefit of this was the £5 monthly 
fee to use an overdraft (which was applicable to fee-free accounts) was waived whilst 
holding this account. So in other words, rather than pay £5 per month to use their overdraft 
on a fee-free account, instead Mr and Mrs J paid £5 per month for the Additions account but 
were able to not pay interest on the first £100 of the overdraft  and have access to all the 
other account benefits, should they want to use them.
I can see that Mr and Mrs J did regularly use their overdraft at this point. So having the 
Additions account would likely have saved them money on a monthly basis, when it was 
initially taken out.
When selling the Additions account, Barclays was required to give Mr and Mrs J enough 
information about the account so they understood what they were agreeing to. It seems 
highly likely that the overdraft features were discussed with them as they were the major 
benefits that the account came with. I also cant see anything that they were not told about 
that may have changed their decision to take out this account.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions account was mis-
sold.
Additions Plus account
At the time the Additions Plus account was sold to Mr and Mrs J, it cost £12 per month 
versus the £7.50 the Additions account cost. By this time the Additions account that they had 
held had more benefits than when it was originally taken out.
The Additions Plus account came with similar benefits to the Additions account, such as 
Breakdown cover, an interest free overdraft buffer and preferential interest rates on 
overdrafts - but it also came with travel insurance.
It also appears that for the first three months they held the account, they were charged the 
same monthly fee as the Additions account they held previously. So this also may have 
attracted them to try the account with the additional benefit that it came with.
I can see from Mr and Mrs Js bank statements that they did travel, so I think its likely that 
this benefit is what attracted them to agree to this account.
Given the length of time since this account was taken out, Barclays cant confirm whether a 
personal recommendation was made. But as the additional main benefit was travel 
insurance and given that I believe this couldve been used by Mr and Mrs J, I think that had a 
personal recommendation been made, it would not have been an inappropriate account for 
them.
During the sale, I think the main benefits and how to use them wouldve been highlighted to 
Mr and Mrs J - to make the account seem attractive to them. And there awareness of the 
benefits is demonstrated by them registering a mobile phone under the phone insurance, 
claiming under the breakdown cover and it appears that a medical declaration was made 
under the travel insurance policy. I also cant see anything specific that they were not told 
about this account that I think wouldve altered their decision to take out the account.
So taking everything into account, Im unable to say that the Additions Plus had been mis-
sold either.
Tech pack and Travel Pack
In relation to the migration to the Tech and Travel Plus Packs, this was not a sale. It was a 
migration, as Barclays had decided to withdraw the Additions Plus account from its range of accounts. Barclays was required to give notice of this change and make it clear that this 
change was optional. Barclays has explained that it sent letters explaining this and has 
provided copies of these letters. I have a copy of the letter sent to Mr and Mrs J, and I am 
satisfied that it makes it clear what the benefits are and that the migration is optional. So I 
dont think that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to this.
Mr and Mrs J have explained that they have, on a number of occasions, tried to downgrade 
their account, but were unable to do so. I have carefully considered this, but I cant see that 
any formal downgrade requests have been made by Mr and Mrs J. So I cant say that 
Barclays did anything wrong in relation to this.
I accept that Mr and Mrs J may now, with the benefit of hindsight, think that these accounts 
and Packs have been poor value for money. But that in itself doesnt mean that Barclays 
was wrong to have sold them at the time.
I appreciate that this may come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs J, but I hope they 
understands the reasons why I have reached this outcome.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman