DRN-3405142
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited provided him with two loans he was unable
to afford to repay.
What happened
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAmount 
receivedDate 
repaid
Loan 1 27/06/19 £1,900.00 24 months £207.49 £3,152.94 01/10/20
Loan 2 16/10/20 £3,000.00 24 months £289.29 £3,200.00 Still 
active
Mr M paid off the first loan, which was consolidated with loan 2 but struggled with the 
payments for loan 2. He was struggling with debts and payday loans at the time of 
having both loans issued.
For loan 1, which was for debt consolidation, and for loan 2 which was also for debt 
consolidation and for buying furniture, Everyday said that its application process was 
to review Mr Ms applications and to carry out the following checks:
 Obtaining and reviewing up to seven weeks bank statements from a customers 
primary bank account
 Conducting a Credit Search
 Carrying out a job check
It used ONS (Office of National Statistics) data to calculate living expenses and 
independently verified his income. It calculated that for loan 1 Mr M had a disposable income 
of around £325 after paying his living expenses and credit commitments and paying off 
various loans. It therefore assessed that the loan was affordable. For loan 2 it assessed that 
the monthly disposable income figure was around £194, and assessed that that loan was 
also affordable. 
Our adjudicator reviewed both loans and concluded that Mr M was over reliant on payday
loans and he was clearly struggling financially. He said that Everyday shouldnt have issued
either loan.
Everyday agreed with the adjudicators view concerning loan 2. However as regards loan 1
although it was aware of the number of payday loans Mr M had taken out, the purpose of the
loan was to consolidate his debts and to pay off those loans so as to bring the payments
down to one affordable payment.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought Everyday had made a fair lending 
decision in respect of loan 1. But in respect of loan 2 I said I thought it was clearly 
unaffordable, in line with Everydays response to the adjudicators view.
Mr M accepted my provisional findings. Everyday offered no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under the agreements.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).loan 1
Im aware that Mr Ms history showed that he was over reliant on payday loans. He advised
that this was because of his recent move. He did have a number of such loans outstanding
at the time of making his application. And he had exceeded his overdraft limit on his current
account. But the purpose of the loan was so that he could pay off those loans and have a
more manageable single payment each month. And the evidence is that he did pay off the
loans, as they no longer showed on his credit record when he applied for loan 2.
It's unfortunate that he was subsequently unable to break out of the cycle of relying on
payday lending, but I think at the time of issuing the loan Everydays checks were
proportionate and did show that, as long as he did consolidate his loan payments he was
able to afford the loan. So I think Everyday made a fair lending decision in respect of this
loan.
loan 2
Unfortunately Mr Ms circumstances had got worse since taking out loan 1. I agree with the
adjudicators view that this loan wasnt affordable. As Everyday has accepted the
adjudicators view in respect of this loan, I wont go into any further detail.
As neither party has any further comments, my provisional findings are now final and form 
part of this final decision.
Putting things right
I dont think the complaint should be upheld concerning loan 1.
As to what the appropriate remedy is, in respect of loan 2 Mr M has had the benefit of the
loan and its fair that he should pay back the capital sum. But I think Everyday should refund
the interest and any charges.
Everyday should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2.
Treat any payments made by Mr M as payments towards the capital amount of £3,000.
If Mr M has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* simple
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable
repayment plan with Mr M.
Remove any adverse information about loan 2 from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint concerning loan 1.
I uphold the complaint concerning loan 2 and require Everyday Lending Limited to provide 
the remedy set out under Putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman