DRN-2833878
The complaint
Mr W complained that JDB Enterprise Group Ltd trading as Fast Loan UK acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Mr W took out a loan as follows:
loan start date date repaid instalmentsloan 
amountinstalment 
amount
1 3/10/2020 4/1/2021 6 £300 £86.85
Mr W mainly said that if Fast Loan had done appropriate checks it would have realised that 
he wasnt in a position to afford this loan  and that he would have to borrow more money to 
repay it. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She didnt think that the information gathered 
raised concerns that the loans wouldnt be affordable or that Fast Loan saw anything that 
shouldve prompted it to do more checks before agreeing to lend. 
Mr W disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. Mr W mainly said that the loan was paid back early due to a gambling win, not 
because it was affordable. He told us that at the time he was already utilising his full 
overdraft of £1000 and also up to a £1000 limit on a credit card. He also told us that before 
taking this loan he had taken loans from other payday lenders including a £400 loan on the 
30/09/2020 and on 2/10/2020 a £500 loan. He felt strongly that with an already adverse and 
poor credit score Fast Loan should have done more to make sure the loan was affordable for 
him. Mr W sent us bank statements in support of what he told us about his financial situation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint. And having done so, Ive come to 
the same overall conclusions as our adjudicator and Im not upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain my reasons.  
Fast Loan provided Mr W with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Fast Loan 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Fast Loan was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending was sustainable for Mr W before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what 
this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
Fast Loan says it agreed to Mr Ws applications after carrying out creditworthiness and 
affordability checks. It looked at payslip information to ensure it had a proper understanding 
of his income. Fast Loan asked Mr W about his regular monthly spending and relied on 
information Mr W provided about his expenditure as well as information obtained from credit 
reference agencies. It said the information it had about Mr W showed that repaying the loan 
shouldnt become difficult for him - and in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
As this was the first time Mr W had borrowed from Fast Loan, at this early stage, Mr W didn't 
have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted Fast Loan to any underlying 
money problems. 
The information Fast Loan gathered about Mr Ws finances suggested that he was well able 
to afford this borrowing. I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr W provided 
or the other information Fast Loan had gathered, which meant that Fast Loan shouldve 
taken more steps to check the information Mr W had declared. 
From what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of 
this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history, 
there wasnt anything that Id expect a lender to be unduly concerned about at this stage. 
I dont think Fast Loan had any reason to think that Mr Ws credit card use (which it was 
aware of from its checks) was a reason to think the loan wasnt sustainably affordable. And 
I dont think the fact he was also making full use of an overdraft facility at the bank was a 
reason to think he wouldnt be able to pay this loan in a sustainably affordable way. 
Fast Loans credit checks didnt flag up any other outstanding short term loans. But its worth 
remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some 
data might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not all payday 
and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a lenders credit 
check might not show all the information someone could see (or expect to see) on their own 
credit file. And its not surprising that loans Mr W had taken out very shortly before this one 
didnt at that stage show on Fast Loans credit checks. 
Fast Loan did allow for him paying £200 towards loan repayments on top of his other 
monthly expenses based on the information Mr W declared. 
I've taken into account that Mr W feels that Fast Loan didn't do all the checks he thinks it 
shouldve done before agreeing to lend to him. But on the figures Fast Loan had gathered it 
looked like the loan shouldve been sustainably affordable for Mr W. And, looked at overall, 
I dont think Fast Loan had any reason to think that it needed to do more or better checks 
into his financial situation before making its lending decision. Mr Ws overall indebtedness 
and the fact he seemed to be managing his credit responsibly with no indication of any 
serious money problems didnt suggest it wasnt responsible to provide this loan. Also bearing in mind that it was early in the lending relationship, I think the checks were enough 
for Fast Loan to agree to lend. So I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Im sorry that Mr W has found repaying all his borrowing difficult. And I accept that in reality it 
looks likely that Mr Ws financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he 
provided or the other information Fast Loan obtained. But I hope that setting out the reasons 
as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman