DRN-3098908
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Metro Bank PLC unfairly recalled a 
Bounce Back Loan. 
Mr K is Fs director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
F banked with Metro and applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 on 
10 September 2020. Metro approved the application and the loan was drawn down the 
following day. 
F utilised some of the funds, withdrawing £6,000 in cash on 19 September. But later that 
month, Metro declined Mr Ks request for a second withdrawal of £10,000 and conducted a 
review  blocking the account while it did so.
Metro queried Fs eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan it had obtained, on the basis that it 
couldnt see any evidence to support the £400,000 annual turnover figure that Mr K had 
declared in the application or that F was trading prior to 1 March 2020  which was an 
eligibility requirement under the Loan Scheme rules. Mr K provided some further information, 
but Metro didnt think that the company could demonstrate it was eligible for the loan. So it 
terminated the agreement and recalled the funds. The bank subsequently closed Fs 
account.
Mr K complained to Metro about its actions. He maintained that F was entitled to the loan 
and didnt think the bank had grounds to recall it. He also said that a member of staff had 
used xenophobic language towards him when discussing the matter in a branch. 
In its response, Metro said that it had reviewed Fs accounts in accordance with its 
regulatory responsibilities and in line with the governing terms and conditions. The bank 
maintained its decision on the basis that Mr K hadnt been able to evidence Fs turnover or 
trading prior to 1 March 2020. And it said it had thoroughly investigated Mr Ks concerns of 
discriminatory treatment, but had not been able to corroborate them. 
Mr K referred the complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. She didnt 
think it should be upheld. Having reviewed the information on which Metro based its 
decisions, she thought the bank had acted reasonably in blocking Fs account and recalling 
the loan. And she didnt think Metro had acted in a discriminatory way towards Mr K. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He queried how the bank couldve initially 
approved the loan after conducting its checks and then withdrawn it without reason, when 
there had been no change to his circumstances. So he asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, an applicant could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. There were also certain eligibility criteria that had 
to be met, which included that the application was carrying on business on 1 March 2020.
Applicants were required to self-declare that they met the relevant criteria. When making the 
application on behalf of F, Mr K declared an annual turnover figure of £400,000. And the 
declaration he completed confirmed that his business was carrying on its business on 1 
March 2020. So Metro approved the application on this basis.
Although the loan was initially approved and drawn down, with some of the funds having 
been utilised, Metro was entitled  and expected  to continue to keep matters under review. 
This is in line with its anti-fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and 
its wider legal and regulatory requirements. So I dont think the bank did anything wrong in 
conducting a review of the loan or the account. A block was applied to the latter in line with 
the applicable terms and conditions.
Metro proceeded to review Fs eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan, ultimately deciding that it 
couldnt verify that the company met either the turnover requirement for the amount 
borrowed or that it was trading at the relevant time. Ive considered what Mr K said and 
provided to Metro and us on these points, but having done so I think the banks decision was 
reasonable. I say this because:
Mr K has said that the turnover figure he declared was an estimate. And he was 
entitled to use an estimate, given that his business hadnt been trading for a full 
calendar year at the time he submitted the application. However, lenders werent 
obliged to accept any estimated figure and Metro was entitled to seek the rationale 
behind this projection and expect to see some supporting evidence (for example, 
trading activity to date  even if limited).
Mr K wasnt able to provide anything to substantiate the £400,000 figure hed 
declared or to show it was based on some reasonable assumptions. Mr K did provide 
some tax returns showing his income as a sole trader in previous years, but I dont 
think this was sufficient to support the company projections.
Mr K wasnt able to provide any evidence to show that F had been carrying on 
business at 1 March 2020, which was one of the core eligibility criteria under the 
Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules. It was not enough for a business simply to have 
existed prior to this date  so the fact that F was incorporated on 26 February 2020 
wasnt enough to satisfy this aspect of the eligibility criteria. It had to have been 
trading and adversely affected by the pandemic, which F was unable to demonstrate.
Under the terms and conditions of the Bounce Back Loan, Metro was entitled to terminate 
the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain circumstances. This included where 
any of the information provided within the application is found to have been misleading, 
incomplete or incorrect. Although I appreciate that Mr K used the turnover figure he did in 
good faith, I think Metro had reasonable grounds to consider it to be incorrect  and so it was 
entitled to terminate the loan. The bank was also entitled to recover the funds from Fs 
account in the manner it did, in accordance with its right of set off under the applicable terms 
and conditions.So while I understand Mr Ks unhappiness that the loan was terminated after having been 
approved initially, I dont think Metro made an error in either of these decisions. It processed 
Fs request for the loan based on the information that Mr K provided in his application, in 
which he self-declared the companys eligibility. The bank was entitled to rely on that self-
declaration, in line with how the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was designed to operate. But 
when it had cause to review things, it had legitimate concerns as to Ks eligibility  and after 
investigation, found that it wasnt eligible for the loan it had obtained. So it terminated the 
facility in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. 
Ive also considered what Mr K has told us about how he was spoken to in branch and his 
wider concerns that the banks actions were discriminatory. Im sorry to see that Mr K left the 
branch feeling that he had been treated differently because of his background. I can see that 
the bank conducted an appropriate investigation, which included speaking to members of 
staff. Their recollections differ from those of Mr Ks and having carefully considered what 
both parties have said and provided to us about what happened, I dont think there is enough 
for me to say with any certainty that Metro used the derogatory language that Mr K has 
described. And looking at the banks decisions more widely, I am satisfied that these were 
taken for the reasons Ive outlined above and not based on Mr Ks nationality. 
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K as I appreciate that this matter has had a significant 
impact on him and his business, Ive not found that Metro did anything wrong  so there is 
no basis on which I can require it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman