DRN-2618543
The complaint
Miss C and Mr M complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has turned down a
claim they made on their contents insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr M travelled abroad with some friends. Unfortunately, while he was
away, one of his friends brought a guest back into their hotel room. When Mr M and his
friends awoke, they found that some items and money had been stolen. This included a
designer watch Mr M had been wearing on his wrist while he was asleep. So Miss C and Mr
M made a claim on their home insurance policy under the Cover away from the Home
section.
Admiral turned down their claim. It said the Cover Away from the Home section of the policy
specifically excluded theft claims from a hotel room unless there was evidence of the use of
force and violence to gain entry to it. In this case, the main suspect had been invited into the
room.
Mr M and Miss C were unhappy with Admirals decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Admiral had treated Mr M and Miss C fairly. She acknowledged
that the force and violence exclusion clause was common to home insurance policies. And
that the likely thief hadnt used force and violence to get into the room. But she felt that the
term was intended to apply to situations where a policyholder had left valuable items
unattended in a hotel room. In this case, Mr M had still been wearing the watch, so she
thought the risk was different. And given he hadnt invited the suspect into the room, she
considered Mr M was a victim and couldnt have done anything to prevent the theft from
happening. So she didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to rely on the policy
exclusion to turn down Miss C and Mr Ms claim. She recommended that it should pay the
claim together with interest of 8% simple.
Admiral disagreed. It felt the terms of the policy made it clear that it wouldnt pay claims in
this scenario. It said Mr M hadnt mitigated the risk of a loss by placing such a high-value
item in the room safe or in a safe place.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 January 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I thought it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to turn down Mr M and Miss 
Cs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at the terms of Miss C
and Mr Ms policy, the available evidence and the circumstances of their claim to decide
whether I think Admiral handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Miss C and Mr Ms policy. As Mr M was abroad when the
watch was stolen, the claim was considered in line with the Cover away from your Home
section of the policy. This does provide cover for the loss of or damage to a policyholders
personal possessions anywhere in the world. But this doesnt mean that Admiral will settle
every claim thats made under this section of the policy. It also includes a list of things that
Admiral specifically excludes from cover. One of these terms says:
What is not covered
Theft or attempted theft
From a hotel room unless there has been a forced and violent entry.
Mr M accepts that whoever stole his watch didnt use force and violence to get into the hotel
room he was sleeping in. Hes told us that the watch was stolen by someone one of his
friends brought back into the room, after he was already asleep. Mr Ms account tallies up
with the version of events set out in the copy of the Police report hes sent us  that hed
gone back to the room to sleep and his friends brought someone back to the room. The
Police report referred to that person as a suspect and it seems the Police thought this
person had carried out the theft. So I think it was reasonable for Admiral to reach the same
conclusion.
From all Ive seen, it seems that Mr M was a victim of a crime and I sympathise with his
position. But I think the policy terms clearly set out when claims for the theft of items from
hotel rooms will be covered. Theres simply nothing to suggest that the policy terms have
been met here. Theres no evidence the thief had to use any force or violence to gain
unauthorised access into the hotel room, or that they got in using illegal means. Instead, the
evidence points to the likely suspect having been in the room legitimately at the invitation of
Mr Ms friends, even though Mr M himself didnt issue the invitation. So in these
circumstances, I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Admiral to pay Mr Ms claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further information they wanted me to consider.
Admiral didnt provide any additional information by the deadline I gave.
Mr M and Miss C disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, Mr M considered Id 
taken the side of the insurer, which he felt was unethical. He felt our investigator had looked 
into their case thoroughly and had understood the impact the theft had had on Mr M and the 
sentimental value hed placed on the watch. Mr M said hed considered that keeping the 
watch on his wrist was the best option in the circumstances. He stated he couldnt have 
known that his friend would be coerced by an experienced thief, whose only intention had 
been to commit theft. He felt Admirals policy exclusion was ambiguous, because he 
considered hed effectively been mugged  if hed been on the street or hotel lobby etc, the 
theft wouldve been treated as a mugging. He didnt see why the circumstances of his claim 
should be treated differently simply because he was in a hotel room. He didnt think Id 
considered the full facts of the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know my decision will come as disappointment to Mr M and Miss C, 
I still think it was fair for Admiral to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr M and Miss C that Ive carefully considered everything theyve 
said and sent us in detail, including the investigators records of her discussions with Mr M. Id also like to explain that my role is to decide complaints independently and impartially. So 
while I appreciate Mr M is naturally disappointed by my findings, Id like to assure him and 
Miss C that I have considered the complaint impartially and independently of both parties.
My role is also to consider the actual circumstances of a complaint, rather than to speculate 
on hypothetical situations and what impact they mightve had on the outcome of a claim. I 
understand Mr M feels his situation was akin to a mugging, but I need to make my decision 
based on what actually happened and how the loss occurred. While I appreciate Mr M 
seems to have been a victim of crime and I dont doubt how upsetting this situation mustve 
been for him, I need to think about the cover his policy provides.
In this case, the policy clearly sets out that theft from a hotel room wont be covered unless 
theres evidence of force and violence to gain entry to it. I dont think this term is ambiguous 
or misleading. And the evidence I have to hand, including the Police report, says that Mr Ms 
friend invited the likely suspect into the hotel room. So as I explained in my provisional 
decision, it seems the suspect was there at Mr Ms friends invitation and was there 
legitimately. Theres still no evidence to suggest that the thief used force or violence to 
access the room. And on this basis, I still dont think the policy terms have been met.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ms position, because I understand the watch was of 
great sentimental value to him, I think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to turn down his 
claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman