DRN-4382459
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about the way the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) has offered to settle a claim on their buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs home was badly damaged in a fire. They made a claim on their buildings and 
contents insurance to cover the cost of repairs to the property and the loss of contents, 
including furniture and personal items. They complained about the way NFU dealt with the 
claim and that complaint was considered by an ombudsman at this Service. The 
Ombudsman said it was fair for NFU to pay a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs B to settle the 
clam but he directed NFU to take some further action, including to reconsider the contents 
claim and, on receipt of invoices from Mr and Mrs B relating to the reinstatement work on the 
property, pay any cost in excess of the original tender price.
Mr and Mrs B decided that rather than carry out repairs to the building they would demolish 
and rebuild it. It took some time for this to be done. After further correspondence with NFU 
about this, NFU made what it called a global offer of £9,000 to cover the contents claim and 
any extra costs of the rebuilding work, or alternatively invited Mr and Mrs B to provide proof 
of any extra costs for it to consider.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this and made a further complaint. NFU maintained that its 
offer was fair and confirmed that if Mr and Mrs B provided evidence of the cost of the 
reinstatement work this could be considered, but accepted there had been some delays and 
paid compensation of £300 for the inconvenience caused by this. 
When Mr and Mrs B referred the complaint to this Service our investigator didnt think it 
should be upheld. She said Mr and Mrs B hadnt been able to provide proof of their loss and 
NFUs offer was fair. 
The investigator considered further comments from Mr and Mrs B, who clarified that their 
concern was about the rebuilding work not the contents claim. She sought further comments 
from NFU but after considering this, didnt change her view; it was for Mr and Mrs B to prove 
their loss and NFUs offer to reconsider the claim on receipt of such evidence was fair.
As no agreement has been reached, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have said the decision to make a cash settlement of the claim wasnt fair, as it 
left them having to deal with all the building work themselves. But that was considered in the 
previous complaint and an ombudsman issued a final decision. I cant reconsider any of the 
issues dealt with in that complaint. I can only look at how NFU has dealt with the outstanding 
issues. 
When considering how NFU has dealt with these, Ive taken into account the relevant 
industry rules and guidance, which say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Mr and Mrs B have clarified that this complaint is about payment to cover the increase in 
costs relating to the building work, and particularly building materials, which have increased 
a lot over recent years. Even if costs have increased, its still the case that a policyholder 
needs to prove their loss. So Mr and Mrs B need to evidence the loss they are claiming for.
They have provided very limited information. The settlement was proposed on the basis of 
reinstatement works but Mr and Mrs B decided to knock the property down and rebuild it. 
They have explained their reasons for that but it was their decision, not NFUs. They didnt 
tell NFU they had decided to do this so it didnt have the chance to review the work at that 
point or consider alternatives.
Mr and Mrs B say they never received payment towards VAT or advice about VAT relief from 
HMRC. NFU says it requested proof of VAT being incurred and evidence they were not 
eligible for VAT relief, but didnt receive this. If Mr and Mrs B were not able to claim VAT 
relief they could have told NFU about this at the time.
There were delays in carrying out the work and again, while there were reasons for that, it 
wasnt in NFUs control. And its not possible to directly compare the costs of the 
reinstatement work that was quoted for, with the cost of the actual work carried out. NFU 
says the lack of evidence opens the possibility that if there is a loss it may be less than the 
offer already made. Despite that, NFU has said it will consider the matter on receipt of 
evidence from Mr and Mrs B. 
Mr and Mrs B have explained that they have 300 invoices but dont have the time to copy 
these or go through the schedule to try to match the invoices to the schedule. They have 
also said they accept NFU needs to see invoices but are concerned it will twist the evidence, 
and they dont have the expertise to dispute this. They have suggested reverting back to 
other options discussed in the previous complaint, have a surveyor review the documents, or 
include a provision for inflation in the payment. 
I appreciate the difficulties they have had but as Ive explained, it is for them to prove their 
loss. NFU has explained that the global offer included an element for inflation. It confirmed 
during our investigation that the offer of a payment, or alternatively to review the evidence if 
provided, remained open. In the circumstances I think thats fair. 
NFU previously set a deadline for Mr and Mrs B to respond to the offer but waived that in 
view of their circumstances at the time. It may wish to provide a fresh deadline for them to 
provide any evidence they wish to submit.
My final decision
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited has already made an offer to 
reconsider the claim on the basis of any further evidence from Mr and Mrs B or to pay 
£9,000 to settle the claim and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that the National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited should 
reconsider the claim on the basis of any further evidence received from Mr and Mrs B within 
any deadline set for them, and in the absence of such evidence, should pay £9,000 to them.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman