DRN-4245449
The complaint
Mr V complains that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) didnt apply airmiles to some transactions  
on his HSBC credit card despite telling him it would. He would like an apology for mis selling 
the card, and compensation for the air miles not credited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I dont doubt Mr Vs frustration at not getting airmiles applied to his account for 
several significant transactions. Unfortunately, the terms and conditions for the 
account dont credit air miles for payments to another credit provider which was the 
case here. These are considered as cash transactions and dont attract air miles. So, 
I dont think HSBC were wrong not to apply air miles to Mr Vs account.
Mr V says he made branch visits and several phone calls to check these transactions 
would accrue airmiles and was assured that they were. Unfortunately, HSBC doesnt 
have records of branch discussions, and has only been able to provide a copy of one 
phone call.
The phone call of 30 August 2022 was after Mr V had made some of his significant 
transactions but before he completed the rest of them. In this call Mr V asks when 
airmiles will be credited to his account for transactions made. He doesnt specify 
what these transactions are for. Based on that information I cant say he was misled 
when HSBC told him airmiles would be credited to his next statement.
The complaint notes and contact notes make no reference to Mr V being told he 
would accrue airmiles for payments to another creditor. So, on that basis I cant 
reasonably conclude that he was told he could.
I have noted that  HSBC has offered Mr V £50 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill. I think this was a reasonable offer. But I cant reasonably ask HSBC to pay 
a higher level of compensation as I have no evidence that it has done anything 
wrong.
. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC has made a fair offer.
In full and final settlement HSBC UK Bank plc should pay Mr V the £50 compensation it has 
already offered..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman