DRN-3638792
The complaint
Mr O complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr O is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2016, Mr O purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr O financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In November 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Os behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr O to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate.
Ikano explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr O or that 
there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this. Amongst other things, it said that:
It is not incumbent upon Mr O to take action to check information provided to him.
Mr O wouldnt have purchased the system if he had not been told it was self-funding. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr O paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr O could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by S in the same way he could have claimed 
against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr O and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and sales contract.
The sales contract is a short document which sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed 
during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Os recollection of the sale, 
when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (£12,095.00), the interest to be 
charged, the total amount payable (£15,989.84), the term of the loan (120 months) and the 
contractual monthly repayments (£133.09 per month).Sales contract
The sales contract sets out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year benefits 
of the system as follows:
I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £12,095.00, of which the full 
amount was to be funded by a ten-year (or 120 month) loan. It refers to this as IKANO 120. 
I think Mr O wouldve understood this given he agreed at the same meeting to fund the 
purchase using the loan from Ikano.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total £621.85 
This figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings.
The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown close to each other on the order 
form, just above where Mr O signed. So, these figures were prominent and couldve been 
compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. To repay £12,095.00 
over ten years, the annual repayment would be at least £1,209.50. This is significantly more 
than the potential benefit quoted of £621.85 even before taking into account the interest 
payable on the loan. I think this document was an integral part of the sale and these figures 
would most likely have been discussed with Mr O at the time.
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mr O has alleged.
Self-funding
Mr O may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  such 
as its expected 25-year expected lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the 
system may be self-funding over about 20 years if the benefit was in line with the estimate 
and remained about the same each year.
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time. So, Mr O couldve been told that the system was self-
funding over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) 
without it being a misrepresentation. But I think it is unlikely that he was told the system 
would be immediately self-funding or that he would at no stage be out of pocket.
The CMC has suggested that Mr O wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if he was told it 
was not immediately self-funding. But, it appears he agreed to pay £1,597.08 per year in 
loan repayments (as shown on the loan agreement) when he was told the financial benefit of 
the system in the first year would be £621.85. In doing so, he wouldve been expecting to 
make a net contribution in the first year of at least £975.23. On balance, I think this wouldve 
been explained to him. 
Performance
Ive considered whether the performance of the system is in line with estimate in the order 
form. The MCS certificate show it is expected to generate 2,709 kWh per year. I am satisfied 
that his system is performing as expected  generating approximately 2,861 kWh per year 
up until March 2021 based on the information the CMC has provided. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mr O to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman