DRN-2750016
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society gave him inaccurate information and poor 
customer service when he opened an account. He also complains about the cost of sending 
money to foreign accounts.
What happened
In 2019 Mr H lived in the UK but was planning to retire and live in a country outside the EEA. 
He went to a branch of Nationwide and asked to open an account which he could use while 
living abroad (this was done during a video conference with a remote worker, and the audio 
was recorded and has since been transcribed). He said he needed to have a current account 
in the UK in order to have an account with NS&I. Nationwide opened a paperless account for 
him, and told him that he could use this account even while he was living abroad, but warned 
him that it would not be possible to send him a new debit card when his original card 
expired, unless he still had a UK address it could be sent to.
Mr H subsequently conducted his own research, and discovered information on Nationwides 
website which suggested to him that he actually could not use the account if he lived outside 
the EEA after all. He complained that he had been misled, and that he would need to open 
another account elsewhere. He also complained that Nationwides terms and conditions had 
not made this clear, and that the staff member he had spoken to in branch had not known 
about the limitations of the account and had not been able to give reliable or confident 
answers to his questions, resulting in Mr H having to phone Nationwides head office. 
Separately, he raised a complaint about hidden costs when sending payments to accounts 
overseas. He asked Nationwide to change its terms and conditions. He also complained 
about Nationwides fees for SWIFT payments.
Nationwide did not agree that it had done anything wrong. It maintained that the account 
would continue to be available to Mr N after he moved abroad, until his card expired. It 
accepted that this was not in the terms and conditions, but it was true nevertheless, and 
Nationwide had merely chosen not to include this information in the terms and conditions for 
the sake of brevity. It said the audio recording of the branch meeting supported its case by 
demonstrating that the staff had given clear and accurate information. It said there was 
nothing it could do about fees charged by foreign banks to which payments were made, as 
these would be outside Nationwides knowledge and control, and Mr H had agreed to its 
terms and conditions when he had opened the account.
Mr H brought these complaints to our Service, where they were dealt with together as one 
case, since they were about the same account. But our investigator accepted what 
Nationwide had said, and so he did not uphold this complaint. He also said that the 
complaint about SWIFT payment fees had been brought too late under our time limits, and 
so that matter fell out of our jurisdiction.
Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Opening the account
I will begin with the transcript of the meeting at the branch during which Mr Hs account was 
opened. (A transcript was made because the file containing the recording was too large to 
send by email. I am grateful to Mr H for providing some corrections to the transcript.) It 
seems to have been a long meeting, and this was partly because the staff member spent 
some time searching Nationwides terms and conditions for information that was not there or 
which was difficult to find. The staff member left the meeting to speak to two managers to 
confirm what the correct position was, and later found their answer confirmed in 
Nationwides rules. So I can understand why Mr H has complained about poor service during 
this meeting, and why he has complained about the terms and conditions not specifying 
whether the account he opened could be used if he moved permanently to another country.
Balanced against those shortcomings are the following observations. Firstly, as I shall 
explain later, the information given to Mr H during that meeting was accurate  he could 
continue to use the account after leaving the UK. Secondly, I think the staff member was 
being thorough, as during the meeting she said she did not want to risk giving Mr H the 
wrong information and leaving him in difficulty in the event that his account was closed after 
he moved abroad. I think that being careful and double-checking a matter which was of 
supreme importance to Mr H was actually good customer service, albeit that it took some 
time. The meeting could have been concluded more quickly, but that would have been at the 
risk of providing the wrong information, to Mr Hs future detriment. Thirdly, Mr H appears to 
have been in good spirits throughout the meeting, rather than impatient.
Overall, while I dont think the meeting was perfect and it is possible to find some reasonable 
grounds for criticism, I dont think that the level of service was so poor that it warrants 
compensation. The member of staff handled a rather difficult situation with professionalism, 
empathy and courtesy. At the end of the meeting she admitted to Mr H that the issue raised 
had been challenging, and Mr H accepted that with good grace.
I think that the underlying reason behind the staff members difficulty was that the answer to 
the question she was trying to answer  does Nationwide offer an account which can be still 
used after the account holder has ceased to reside in the UK?  was not easy to find out. It 
was not in a conspicuous place in the terms and conditions. It is not within my remit to order 
Nationwide to amend its terms and conditions. But I informally recommend that Nationwide 
looks into how it might achieve greater clarity on this issue, for the benefit of its staff as well 
as its members.
Although the country Mr H was planning to move to was not an EEA member state, 
Nationwide insists that the account can still be used by someone who (having opened the 
account as a UK resident) has left the UK and now resides in a non-EEA state. This was 
made clear in the meeting. Mr N is sceptical about that, because he found a page on 
Nationwides website which said that the account is not provided to residents of non-EEA 
countries. But that page is not about people who open an account when they are still UK 
residents, and then move abroad. It is only about people who are not UK residents at the 
time they apply for an account. Mr N was still a UK resident when the account was opened, 
and the fact that he was to subsequently move to another country did not mean that he could 
not keep the account and continue to use it. This was all explained in the meeting. I have 
seen no evidence to suggest that any of this is incorrect.At the outset of the meeting, Nationwides staff member explained to Mr H that she would 
not be giving him advice during the meeting, only giving him information with which he could 
make his own decisions. She didnt tell Mr H to open the account, she only told him that he 
could open an account as a UK resident and then move abroad and still continue to use the 
account for as long as his card remained valid (about five years). She explicitly said it would 
have been different if he had already moved. The account was entirely paperless, so 
Nationwide would not need to send anything to his old UK address (unless he changed the 
address registered on his account). Mr Hs response after being told all of this was to say: 
So Ive got 5 years in which to use the account, to re-allocate the finances. I mean, to be 
perfectly honest, it does me no harm to open the account if thats the only restriction we can 
see. (See page 6 of the transcript.)
Later on they discussed what other documents Nationwide might conceivably have to send 
to Mr Hs UK address, such as a letter before action, or a cheque for the closing balance if 
Nationwide decided to close the account. This prompted the staff member to search through 
the terms and conditions, and after some time she eventually concluded that Mr H would not 
have to close the account if he moved away, but he would still have to pay monthly charges 
for certain features on the account that he would no longer be eligible for (such as travel 
insurance). She concluded by saying So I can now confidently say after reading that, that 
you can set it up, you can use it abroad, were not going to close it down. This is audio 
recorded so you can have me lose my job if Im wrong. (Page 10.) Nationwide has since 
confirmed that she was not wrong. She emailed the terms and conditions to Mr H.
She then asked him so, would you like a little bit more time to sort of think this over, or 
would you like me to go for it and open it for you? And Mr H replied I mean, we might as 
well open it. Because if I change my mind, I just come in and close it anyway. (Page 11.)
Im satisfied that it was therefore Mr Hs own decision to open the account, and that the 
information he relied on was correct. The staff member made one error when she wrongly 
said that the country Mr H was moving to was in the EU, and he corrected her (page 19). But 
as Nationwide has confirmed that the account would still be useable in that country, that 
error was harmless. It does not mean that Mr H was misled or that he did not make an 
informed decision.
The staff member confirmed again, by reading Nationwides rules aloud to Mr H, that You 
dont have to close your account with us when you move abroad. (Page 21.) She then 
completed the account opening procedure. I think this matter was correctly handled.
Since bringing this complaint to our Service, Mr H has directed our attention to another page 
on Nationwides website which suggests that, contrary to what he was told, it is possible for 
Nationwide to send a new card to an address outside the EEA. I asked Nationwide about 
that, and it confirmed that this is correct, although it has not always been the case. It is not 
clear when that changed, and it might have changed since he opened the account, so I wont 
infer that he was told the wrong information in the meeting. But it means that there is no 
longer a time limit on how long he can have the account for.
Mr H has also asked about whether Nationwide is regulated to provide financial services 
under the law of the country in which he intends to live. Nationwide says it will not be 
providing financial services in that country, because Mr Hs account is administered in the 
UK, and will continue to be after he moves abroad. It is therefore not necessary for 
Nationwide to be regulated under the laws of that country. I think that is right. Mr Hs account 
will continue to be regulated by the UKs Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).The cost of making overseas payments
Mr H complains about the following clause in Nationwides terms and conditions:
If you make an overseas payment it may pass through one or more banks on its 
way to the recipients account. Banks who are based outside the EEA or the UK may 
deduct their fees from your payment before it reaches the recipient. This could mean 
that the money the recipient receives is less than the payment you sent to them.
Mr H complains about this because he says the fees are essentially hidden charges, and 
Nationwide should be able to tell him up front what these charges will be, or, preferably, not 
charge them at all.
Nationwide says there is nothing it can do about this, as the fees other banks charge are not 
within its control, and it cannot necessarily know how much they will be. Unfortunately, 
I think Nationwide is right about that, and Mr H will find that this is the case everywhere. Its 
just the way things are, and neither I nor Nationwide are in a position to change it.
SWIFT payment fees
Our jurisdiction is set out in rules made by the FCA in part 2 of the chapter of the FCA 
Handbook entitled Dispute Resolution: Complaints, commonly known as the DISP rules. 
(Mr H has referred me to part 3 of the DISP rules, but they are not relevant to our 
jurisdiction.) DISP 2.8 states that a complaint must be brought within six months of the date 
on which the respondent sent its final response. In this case, Nationwide sent Mr H its final 
response on 18 November 2019, but Mr H brought his complaint to us on 27 May 2020, 
which was more than six months later, and therefore out of time. I dont think this delay was 
the result of exceptional circumstances, and so I cannot consider this issue.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021. But there is no need for him to reply, and if we do 
not hear from him then we will presume that he rejects my decision.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman