DRN-3649856
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the service received by Quilter Investment Platform Limited 
(QIP). He said QIP transferred the proceeds to it from two ISAs that Mr R held with other 
providers, without his authorisation to do so.
What happened
Mr R held two Stocks and Shares ISA with other ISA providers (Party A and Party B). Mr Rs 
financial advisers (Party C) On 7 July 2021 submitted a transfer request online to QIP, to 
move Mr Rs two ISAs to it. So, QIP arranged with Party A and Party B for the transfers to be 
completed.  Mr R said that he hadnt given his authorisation for QIP to do this.
On 15 July 2021, Mr Rs financial advisers (Party C) informed the other ISA providers 
(Parties A and B) that the transfer request that it had submitted to QIP, was submitted online 
by them in error and asked if the transfers could be reversed. This error led to QIP sending a 
request to Party A and Party B, who both then duly sold the units and transferred over the 
money to it. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service after QIP told him that it had done nothing wrong 
other than carry out instructions by Party C. One of our investigators looked into Mr Rs 
complaint and issued their view not upholding his complaint. They concluded QIP completed 
a submitted transfer request that it had received online and had no reason to believe that it 
was made without Mr Rs authority. They said it would be unreasonable for QIP to know Mr 
R hadnt authorised the transfer requests. They didnt think QIP had done anything wrong.
Mr R disagreed with the investigator. He said QIP had a responsibility to ensure that it had 
his permission before it carried out the transfer request. 
As the parties are not in agreement, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the record, Party C put in the transfer request to QIP without Mr Rs permission and has 
admitted that it made an error. It made an offer to compensate Mr R, which was been 
accepted. 
What I am considering here are the actions of QIP and no other parties, despite the obvious 
connections with regards to the transfer request. In other words, a complaint made against 
QIP doesnt allow me to consider or make findings on the actions of other parties, in this 
case Party A, Party B or Party C. Although for ease, I have continued to mention them so 
that there is a clear understanding as to what has happened here.
So, with all of that in mind, I need to consider QIPs role in this transfer request and whether 
it should have done more than it did. 
QIP and all other parties mentioned have signed up to an exchange scheme called TISA 
Exchange Limited (TeL). The scheme has been designed by the ISA providers themselves 
and they all adhere to the same terms and conditions. By participating it allows ISA providers 
to carry out transfers quickly and efficiently removing some of the administrative function, as 
all participants are adhering to the same rules. It also designates clear roles and 
responsibilities when it comes to transferring ISAs between them and spells out who is 
responsible for what. 
Mr R has recently submitted three complaint points that he says remain outstanding about 
QIP that he would like me to consider. He has asked if QIP held training programmes for its 
appointed representatives about submitting requests on the system. I dont think the training 
issue relates to QIP as Party C was not its appointed representative, rather QIP was 
responsible for carrying out the transfer requests submitted by Party C. 
Mr R says he also did not receive a formal reply to his complaint and that he was told it was 
prepared and not sent to him. I can see that QIP has provided a response to Mr Rs 
complaint and has also provided information for our service to look into further.
Mr R then says his main complaint is that QIP failed to communicate with him in any way, 
shape, or form prior to acting on requests from Party C to transfer two of his Stocks and 
Shares ISAs held with Party A and Party B. 
So, I have looked at this. QIP says it acted in good faith on the instruction of Mr Rs financial 
adviser, Party C. This is the firm that has already admitted that it made a mistake here. It 
says online where Party C submitted the transfer forms, it is an automatic straight through 
process. I have had a look at some of the screen shots of what would have been provided 
and can see that there is a declaration form that Party C would have needed to tick to say 
that it had authorisation from Mr R to proceed with the transfer requests. It looks likely to me 
that QIP would have seen that Party C had declared it had the authority to proceed. And this 
was enough within its processes at that time, for it to do so. When I see this, I dont think QIP 
were unreasonable to do so and accept this declaration. It was something that QIP had 
signed up to TeL to do: to accept at face value the different parties actions in exchange for it 
carrying out its responsibilities within the scheme. 
At no point can I see that QIP was aware that Party C did not have authorisation from Mr R 
to carry out this request and was only made aware after it had carried out its part of the 
transfer. 
So, in conclusion, I dont think QIP did anything wrong here and was not the party that was 
responsible for this transfer requests erroneously being submitted, that then led to them 
subsequently going ahead. 
Im sorry that the outcome is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr R, but after 
considering all the information provided by both sides here, I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint about Quilter Investment Platform Limited and so I dont 
require it to do anything further here. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman