DRN-3692832
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the advice she received in 1989 from a business now part of Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) to transfer the benefits from her defined benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. Mrs M has now retired and says the 
benefits are not what she was led to believe at the time, so she believes the advice was 
unsuitable and shes lost out as a result.
What happened
Briefly:
In 1989 Mrs S was advised by BoS to transfer the deferred benefits from her occupational 
pension scheme with a previous employer to a personal pension arrangement.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an 
industrywide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 30 
June 1994. It was generally known as the Pension Review. It aimed to address concerns 
about the possible widespread mis-selling of Personal Pension Plans between these dates. 
Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set out the method and assumptions that 
firms had to use to determine the level of any redress due. The review was intended to be a 
one-off exercise to put right any damage caused by poor advice.
In 2000 BoS provided Mrs S with the outcome of its review of the advice she was given. In 
effect it determined that she should not have been advised to transfer the benefits from her 
DB scheme and it offered compensation of just over around £4,200, which Mrs S accepted.
In 2022 Mrs S complained to BoS about the advice she was given and she asked it to 
answer some questions relating to the paperwork and what she says she was told at the 
time.
BoS didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said Mrs S pension plan and the advice she 
was given in 1989 had already been reviewed as part of the industry wide Pension Review it 
carried out in 2000. It said it was satisfied the review was carried out in line with regulatory 
requirements, which resulted in it identifying that Mrs S had incurred a loss as a result of 
transferring her pension and it offered, and Mrs S accepted, a payment to put things right.
Mrs S referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. In doing so BoS objected 
to our consideration of the complaint because it believed the complaint was out of time. One 
of our investigators looked at things  and while they believed it was a complaint we could 
look at, they didnt think it should be upheld. 
In summary they said Mrs S pension and the advice she was given had been reviewed as 
part of the Pension Review in 2000 and they were satisfied BoS offered and Mrs S accepted 
compensation. They said the Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise, so 
given this and because they believed there was nothing to indicate that BoS had calculated 
the compensation incorrectly, they werent going to ask BoS to review things again. They 
also answered some of the questions Mrs S had asked about missing payments, what Mrs S 
says she was told about taking a lump sum and the bonuses she would receive as well as a 
point she raised about not being able to transfer her pension in 2005.
Mrs S disagreed. She said she still maintained that BoS were liable. She also raised 
concerns about how BoS were able to review her pension in 2000 when they said they didnt 
have any of the advice paperwork from the time  she said a review of a pension isnt just a 
mathematical equation. Mrs S also indicated that she wanted to raise a complaint about the 
pension provider in an attempt to have all her outstanding questions answered.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, Ive decided to 
not uphold this complaint. Theres not much more I feel I can usefully add to what the 
investigator has already told Mrs S  but my reasons are set out below.
I understand that, as Mrs S has now reached retirement age shes discovered that her 
pension benefits are not what she says she was led to believe at the time of the advice and 
so she considers the advice to transfer her pension was wrong and unsuitable. I can also 
see that Mrs S has asked a number of questions, which our investigator helpfully tried to 
answer, but that in my view ultimately relate to the advice she was given in 1989 and what 
she says she was told by the adviser  including what bonuses she was told she would 
receive and what she could take by way of a lump sum at retirement.
But I think all of these things have effectively already been considered. This is because BoS 
has provided evidence, which in my view clearly shows that it has already reviewed Mrs S 
pension and the advice she received in 1989 to transfer the benefits from her DB pension 
scheme, as part of the industry wide Pension Review it undertook in 2000. Ive seen a letter 
from 15 June 2000 in which BoS says it carried out the required review and identified a loss, 
which it was willing to make good by offering Mrs S a payment of around £4,200. A 
subsequent letter of 4 July 2000 provided more detail about the breakdown of the offer  
something it appears Mrs S requested at the time. And then in February 2001 BoS sent 
Mrs S a letter, which says she had accepted its offer of compensation and that the redress 
would be paid.
Im mindful that the Pension Review was designed to be a one-off process, which was based 
on what the regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, using reasonable 
assumptions for future growth rates. Some of those assumption, in particular relating to 
expected growth rates, havent come to realisation. And this could likely be why Mrs S has 
raised her complaint now about the advice she received. But this isnt a reason to undertake 
the Pension Review once again. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a 
business like BoS was able to provide redress for instances of mis-selling. And also so that it 
knew it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in the future. 
This was important for the stability of the industry and consumer confidence in financial 
services more generally. But it was also designed to reassure consumers such as Mrs S.
So its the case that the issues relating to the advice Mrs S received in 1989, including many 
of the questions she has raised about what she says she was told at the time, have already 
been addressed by BoS when it carried out the Pension Review in 2000. It effectively said at this time that the advice Mrs S received was unsuitable and it offered compensation with the 
aim, as far as was practically possible, to put Mrs S back in the position she would otherwise 
have been in. And because of this, its not appropriate for me to consider things again. As 
the investigator said to Mrs S, there is nothing to indicate BoS loss calculation was incorrect 
and Mrs S has not raised any concerns here. Id add that generally businesses carrying out 
the reviews were subject to internal and external quality checks by the regulator, so I think 
its generally unlikely the calculations were incorrect. 
I can see that Mrs S is concerned that BoS doesnt appear to have retained the original 
advice paperwork and asks that if it didnt have this, how can she be sure BoS looked at 
everything properly, including the advice in 2000? But whether or not the advice paperwork 
was available to BoS as part of the review doesnt alter things here - its not a reason for me 
to look at things again. Its entirely possible for example that, if the advice paperwork wasnt 
available, this might be why BoS carried out a loss assessment and offered Mrs S 
compensation. But whatever the reason, Im satisfied that Mrs S accepted and was paid 
compensation in line with the regulatory guidance at the time, which as I said above was 
considered to be a fair methodology, using reasonable assumptions. So in many ways the 
review outcome was a mathematical equation  the reason why BoS deemed Mrs S lost out 
wouldnt alter how the loss calculation was carried out or the amount shed receive in 
compensation. 
Overall and based on the evidence presented in this case, I think BoS carried out the review 
of Mrs S pension correctly and as it was required to do by the regulator at the time  Ive not 
seen anything to persuade me otherwise. So although this isnt the answer Mrs S was 
hoping for, I dont think there are fair and reasonable grounds to look at this matter again or 
make a further award.
In closing, I understand that Mrs S has raised a complaint with her pension provider in an 
attempt to get answers to some of her outstanding questions. But Im satisfied that any 
questions relating to the advice and what Mrs S might or might not have been told during the 
advice process in 1989 have effectively already been dealt with and put right as part of the 
Pension Review - so theres nothing more for BoS to do in this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award in Mrs S favour.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman