DRN-4297799
The complaint
Ms D complains that Vanguard Asset Management Limited wont accept the trustees of her 
will trust as the nominated beneficiary on her pension. 
Ms D would now like Vanguard to either change their policy or pay her compensation for the 
trouble that theyve caused her, along with the time and future costs she says that shell now 
incur in putting this right because of them.
What happened
Ms D has held a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with Vanguard for a number of years. 
As part of the financial planning that shes put in place, Ms D arranged for a will trust to be 
set up so that her monies would fall outside of her estate for inheritance tax (IHT) purposes. 
Whilst her pension monies were already outside of her estate for IHT, she was keen to 
ensure that there was no risk that those funds would find their way back into her partners 
estate on her death and create an IHT problem for him. 
She therefore completed Vanguards nomination of benefits form, stating that she wished the 
trustees of her will trust to benefit from her SIPP funds on her death, so that they could then 
allocate the monies in accordance with her wishes.
After speaking to a Vanguard representative in February 2023, Ms D discovered that they 
would be unable to accommodate her death nomination wishes, as only named individuals 
could be elected. 
Shortly afterwards, Ms D decided to formally complain to Vanguard. In summary, she said 
that she was unhappy that shed only recently found out, by accident, of Vanguards 
restrictions on who they would be prepared to pay her SIPP death benefits to. In addition, 
she also explained that shed already submitted a nomination form that named her will 
trustees as potential beneficiaries to her pension fund and Vanguard hadnt flagged this to 
her as being problematic before.
After reviewing Ms Ds complaint, Vanguard concluded that they were satisfied that theyd 
done nothing wrong. They also said, in summary, they felt that their death benefit nomination 
form was clear as it only allowed named beneficiaries. They went on to explain that the 
problem wasnt spotted sooner because they dont verify the beneficiary names on a 
nomination form until an event arose that meant that they needed to get in touch with them.
Ms D was unhappy with Vanguards response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
In summary, she said that Vanguard had never made it clear that they would only accept 
named individuals as opposed to trustees as potential beneficiaries. She asked this service 
to make Vanguard change their rules.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Vanguard 
had treated Ms D fairly, as who they accept as a potential class of beneficiary is a business 
decision for them.
Ms D, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she said that 
Vanguards website and documentation was unclear about the restrictions they place on 
monies being left to trusts. She went on to say that given she had filled the nomination form 
in, and Vanguard never challenged it, she felt that she was being treated unfairly, particularly 
given as shed recently read that under English law, it was permissible to leave pension 
monies to charities and trusts. In addition, she felt that, had Vanguard asked her who she 
wished to leave her pension monies to, the issue wouldve surfaced earlier.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe that Ms D had 
presented any new arguments that hed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy 
with that outcome, Ms D then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to 
review that outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Ms D and Vanguard to reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but it is 
for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's more likely 
than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint and 
its largely for the same reasons as our Investigator. Whilst I appreciate that Ms D will likely 
be disappointed by my decision, Ill explain why below.
Its clear, from Ms Ds communications to this service, that she has taken great care and 
diligence in trying to plan her financial affairs in the event of her death in order to mitigate 
the impact of inheritance tax. So, I can well imagine how disappointed she must have been 
to find out that Vanguard werent able to facilitate her wishes in the manner that shed 
originally hoped.
Ive looked closely at Vanguards literature, which Ms D says isnt clear. Vanguard have 
already conceded that neither their SIPPs key features document, nor their client terms 
specifically cover the fact that trustees cant be nominated as a potential beneficiary 
following the death of the plan holder. However, I do think that Vanguards Trust Deed and 
Rules from 5 May 2018 set out who they can pay the pensions death benefits to. In section 
10. Lump Sum Death Benefits, it states that the Administrator, in its absolute discretion, 
may determine one or more of the following:
10.1.1 the individuals relatives;
10.1.2 any person for whom drawdown may be provided on that (whether actually 
provided or not);
10.1.3 (on the death of a Member) and person nominated for this purpose by the 
Member;10.1.4 (on death of a Dependant, Nominee or Successor) any person nominated for 
the purpose by the relevant Member (or, if the Member made no nomination, by the 
Dependant, Nominee or Successor, as the case may be);
10.1.5 a Successor; or
10.1.6 the individuals personal representative (but not if the payment would then 
pass as bona vacantia).
So, it seems to me that, given all of the references within Vanguards Trust Deed point to the 
Administrator being restricted to paying death benefits to individuals only, rather than a 
Trust, Vanguard are acting within the confines of the SIPPs rules.
Ive also looked at the nomination of beneficiaries form that Ms D completed. I think that the 
format of Vanguards form should have given Ms D cause to question with them, whether 
they were able to accept the trustees of a will trust as an acceptable class of potential 
beneficiary. I say that, because the death benefit nomination form asked the following three 
main questions:
Legal first name  which Ms D inserted The Trustees of
Last name  which Ms D then inserted my Will Trust
What is their date of birth?  which Ms D answered 1 January 2001
I think that, given the form didnt lend itself to include options other than naming specific 
people and particularly given that there was a need to include a date of birth, ought to have 
put Ms D on a path of discovery that she needed to check directly with Vanguard that the 
SIPP could meet her needs.
Ms D has highlighted a letter that she received from Vanguard, confirming that shed 
completed an expression of wish form, leaving her SIPP monies to the trustees of her will 
trust. Whilst I can appreciate that letter may have led Ms D to believe that there wasnt a 
problem with that instruction, I understand that letter is automatically generated once 
consumers have inserted the name of whom they wish to leave their pension funds to. In 
addition, Vanguard have also stated that the nomination form isnt generally referred to by 
their colleagues unless theres a requirement to pay death benefits from the plan, so I can 
see why it wasnt picked up when Ms D initially sent her form in.
When Ms D arranged the SIPP, she did so without any advice from Vanguard. So, it was up 
to her to ensure that the pension arrangement that she was entering into was suitable for her 
needs both at inception and on an ongoing basis. Vanguards responsibility is to administer 
and manage her monies in accordance with Ms Ds instructions. If Ms D was under any 
doubt about the suitability of the SIPP or its ability to accept trustees as potential 
beneficiaries, then she should have checked directly with Vanguard to satisfy herself that the 
plan would do as she wished. 
Ms D told our Investigator that she probably checked with Vanguard that she could nominate 
a trust as a beneficiary, but she thinks that shes likely thrown the evidence away. So, as Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that she actually did ask Vanguard whether that particular need 
could be met by the plan, Ive not been persuaded that theyve done anything wrong.
Its not within the remit of this service to instruct a business to alter their procedures  thats 
the role of the regulators, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Pensions Regulator. Were here to ensure that consumers have been treated fairly. As I cant say that Vanguard 
have issued unclear or misleading information to Ms D, I wont be upholding her complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint and as such, I do not require Vanguard Asset 
Management Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman