DRN-3687494
Complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her.
Background
In July 2019, Miss Rs savings account received a payment of £1,900.00. The funds were 
immediately transferred into her current account where £500 was withdrawn in cash and 
£250 was transferred on to a third-party. 
Lloyds subsequently received a notification from a third-party bank stating the funds had 
entered into Miss Rs savings account as a result of fraudulent activity. Lloyds reviewed  
Miss Rs account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close the account and 
record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss R complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Lloyds looked at Miss Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss R remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Rs concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss R unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss R disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Lloyds has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss R is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Lloyds must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Rs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Lloyds also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss R was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss R allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Rs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Rs account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Lloyds did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Rs 
account in July 2019, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss R was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss R has said she was invited to invest in crypto currency by others who had made money 
from doing so. She said that she was told that she was given the option of investing her own 
money and receiving all of the profits, or a third-party would invest their money and shed 
receive half the profits. Miss R said she didnt know this person who offered to help her with 
the investment but believed that the funds transferred into her account were her share of the 
profits. Finally Miss R says that it was only when she went to withdraw funds from her 
account and couldnt that she realised that something might be wrong. 
Ive thought about what Miss R has said. But Miss R hasnt provided anything at all to 
support what at face value appears to be an implausible version of events. Im also 
concerned that these accounts all appear to have been opened not too long before the 
fraudulent activity took place and the lack of other activity on the account is indicative of the 
account having been opened for illegitimate purposes. 
Im afraid Miss Rs inability to provide anything to corroborate being an unwitting participant 
in what took place, together with this having happened on accounts which had very little 
other activity on it and Miss R being unable to explain why she reasonably believed shed 
receive investment returns from someone she didnt know without investing any of her own 
money, means that I cant reasonably conclude she was an unwitting participant here. 
Instead, I think its more likely than not Miss R was complicit in her account receiving 
fraudulent funds.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Rs account. And it was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss R was complicit in 
this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss R. But even taking into account the 
impact Miss R says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that she appears to 
have been complicit in fraudulent activity. So I hope that Miss R will understand the reasons 
for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. Furthermore, 
Miss R might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long as she 
applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman