DRN-2626360
The complaint
Miss N says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma irresponsibly lent to her. 
She says that at the time of sale she had other credit she was struggling to repay. So she 
says the Satsuma loans werent affordable and Satsuma shouldnt have approved them. 
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans Satsuma provided to Miss N in August and 
September 2018. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in a 
table below. 
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedweekly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 28/08/2018 £100 13 16/11/2018
2 29/09/2018 £300 47 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Satsuma had made 
proportionate checks before approving each loan.
Miss N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and she asked that an Ombudsman consider 
the complaint. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt 
lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Miss N could repay her loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may 
come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that 
the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons.
For loan 1 Miss N needed to repay around £11 for 13 weeks. Loan 2 was started shortly 
after loan 1 and added around another £13 to this repayment. Loan two would run longer 
than loan 1 as it was scheduled to run for 47 weeks. 
Ive seen a record of the information provided when Miss N completed her loan application. 
Miss N said she had a monthly income of around £1,650. Provident recorded that she had 
regular monthly outgoings of around £950 for loan 1 and £650 for loan 2. 
Satsuma used a mixture of the information Miss N provided and what it obtained from a 
credit reference agency to arrive at her expenditure figure. And it saw that the amount of 
credit Miss N had outstanding fell between loans 1 and 2. But even using the higher 
expenditure amount for loan 1 the lending wouldve seemed affordable to Satsuma. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Satsuma was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss N mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to rely on the 
information it obtained and this showed Satsuma that these loans were affordable. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Satsuma did for these loans 
were proportionate. So I think Satsumas decisions to lend were reasonable and Im not 
upholding Miss Ns complaint about them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman