DRN-4004097
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC tried to put right the 
mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms S complained to Barclays about the sale of PPI on her overdraft. Barclays agreed it had 
been mis-sold and paid her some redress by bank transfer. They later recalculated the 
redress and found they owed Ms S around £2,000 more. They sent her a cheque.
Ms S said she didnt get the money from that cheque. Her bank also said she didnt get it. 
But Barclays said that from their end it looked like the cheque had been paid.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. They explained 
that they couldnt confidently say the redress had been paid, so they recommended Barclays 
reissue it. Barclays didnt respond, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is quite finely balanced. But based on the evidence Ive got and the balance of 
probabilities, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
In order to conclude that Barclays put right the mis-sale of this PPI policy, I would need to be 
satisfied that Barclays did indeed pay Ms S her redress.
I acknowledge that the money for the redress left Barclays internal account  though its not 
clear where it went after that. I also acknowledge that Barclays did not send a letter saying 
the cheque had voided  though that may have simply been an administrative error. And 
I acknowledge that Ms S received a similar amount in one of her accounts around the same 
time  though this was ultimately a different amount to the cheque, theres nothing to show it 
came from Barclays, and it arrived in Ms Ss account before the redress money left Barclays 
internal account.
On the other hand, the details for the receiving account on the cheque image not only do not 
appear to relate to Ms S, but do not appear to be valid details at all. Importantly, the cheque 
was marked as unpaid. And Ms Ss bank confirmed that as far as they were concerned, she 
had not received this cheque in any of her accounts.
So while I do understand Barclays point of view, it seems most likely that something went 
wrong with this cheque  for example, that it was not paid, or that it was paid to an account 
that was not Ms Ss. Either way, I am not satisfied that Ms S received her full redress here.
It follows that the most reasonable thing to do now is for the redress to be reissued. To avoid 
any similar problems, I think it should be done by bank transfer.
Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to reissue the redress to Ms S, by bank transfer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ss complaint, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman