DRN-3893777
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about the fees applied by Wesleyan Assurance Society (the
Society) trading as Wesleyan, referred to as the business or Wesleyan.
In short, they say they werent made aware of the Wesleyan Financial Services (WFS) fee,
and it wasnt disclosed within the paperwork.
To put things right, theyd like the fee removed from their statements going forward, and
some compensation paid.
What happened
In mid-December 2022, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below 
and forms part of my final decision. In the decision I said: 
subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I dont think it
behaved reasonably in this instance.
This case isnt just about what the WFS fee is and whether, or not, the business was entitled
to deduct this fee  Im not persuaded that the business has done anything wrong by doing
so, such that the complaint should be upheld on this basis.
This complaint is primarily about Wesleyans failure, at the point of sale (post IDD) to make
this fee reasonably clear to Mr and Mrs O before they went ahead with the investment. On
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I think it failed to
do so, at the point of sale and within the policy documentation.
However, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, given that it wasnt a fixed charge to
the policyholder, or a fee that they could opt out of, and given the (potential) cost versus
rewards of investing in the With Profits fund, I think its more likely than not they still wouldve
gone ahead with the investment, even if the business had made the WFS fee clear to them
at the outset.
In other words, on balance I think its unlikely that they wouldve done anything different  I
note theyre not unhappy with the investment. So, I cant say that theyre entitled to a refund
of the WFS fees paid.
However, in the circumstances, and on balance, I think the business should pay Mr and Mrs
O £200 compensation (£100 each) for the distress and inconvenience caused by the
businesss failure to make the WFS fee clear at the outset, resulting in subsequent confusion
and uncertainty lasting a relatively short period of time.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note Mr and Mrs Os
strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed submissions to support this
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that they wont take the
fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,
as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised either. My role is to
consider the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs O, and Wesleyan, and reach what I think is
an independent, fair, and reasonable decision, based on the facts of the case. Despite what
they say, its not my role to punish the business, thats the role of the industry regulator, the
Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA).
I note key policy documentation, which Mr and Mrs O received for each of the plans, made
reasonably clear the AMC (at 1.2%) and the IAC at (0.3%)  the latter isnt the subject of
complaint. I also note they opted out of the ongoing advice charge (OAC), so a fixed 0.5%
annual charge didnt apply to them. However, there was no clear mention of the WFS fee
within the key policy documentation, as a possible (additional) fee/deduction.
I appreciate Wesleyan says that this isnt an additional (fixed) charge to the policy holder, in
the same way that the OAC might be, instead the fee is taken out of the fund as a loss
(sometimes described as dampening of the fund performance). In other words, the WFS fee
is part of the funds profits and losses and is therefore variable, but not a direct charge to
the policyholder.
Whilst this might explain why Wesleyan didnt make the fee as clear as the other charges
(and why it wasnt on the Illustration), in this instance and on balance, I dont think this
necessarily justifies it not doing so.
Im conscious that the WFS fee is described as the Society paying WFS a fee for admin
services, so is arguably an agreement between the two entities  I dont seek to disagree or
challenge this. Im conscious that a business is (unilaterally or otherwise) entitled, in the
reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to set its own term of busines
and own fees  so long as the terms of agreement are made clear to its customers. Its not
for us to tell a business how it should run its affairs. But I dont think it did make clear the
WFS fees to Mr and Mrs O when it should have done.
That said, I dont think the business was required to specifically obtain Mr and Mrs Os
consent on it, before going ahead  its generally not required to in respect of everything it
can and cant do. So, on balance, Im unable to safely say that it has done anything wrong
by not specifically doing so in this instance. I also dont think it excuses Mr and Mrs O from
paying the WFS fee which the business was entitled to charge. Just because it didnt make it
clear, doesnt mean Mr and Mrs O arent obliged to pay it.
I note the WFS fee comes out as a loss/reduced return to the fund, for providing a service 
described by the business as transaction/dealing costs associated with trading within the
funds you are invested in  which I understand is arguably different to the OAC for example,
and one that Mr and Mrs O cant just opt out of, because its not a direct charge to the
policyholder.
Im also aware its a fee that has always been applied by the business where theres been a
loss, so it wasnt something that was added at the last minute. I appreciate it probably gave
Mr and Mrs O the impression that it was, when they received their statements in 2020 and
2021  I note they were only expecting to pay the AMC and werent aware of any other
deductions.
The WFS fee is nevertheless a deduction  described by the business as it is applied to the
whole With Profits fund, which subsequently reduces the value of a policyholders fund
value  and one that can (potentially) affect Mr and Mrs Os investment. Therefore (arguablypost IDD) the business ought reasonably to have made this clear to them, and at the very
least made them aware of it.
I note that Wesleyan had to disclose anything that could reduce the value of the policy on a
consistent basis  irrespective of whether it was a charge or a loss, so should have done this
at the outset with Mr and Mrs O. In the circumstances, I dont think reference to How our
with profits fund works justifies or excuses its failing to do so.
I dont think the businesss actions post complaint are wholly immaterial as suggested by Mr
and Mrs O. I note the business initially didnt think it made sense to show the profits in the
charges section  even though it offset some of the losses  so starting in 2019 it decided to
display the WFS fees on its annual statements. It had grouped the AMC, transaction costs
and WFS fees together under Product and fund management charges  but has since
addressed this. The AMC now covers the cost of the Society expenses incurred by the With
Profits fund as well as WFS fees  so, Mr and Mrs O wont see the WFS fee on future
statements. Nevertheless, I still think the business should pay them £200 compensation for
the distress and inconvenience suffered.
Despite what Mr and Mrs O say, I dont agree that the business has caused them a financial
loss or taken money/made adjustments that it wasnt entitled to, so I dont think theyre
entitled to any financial loss claimed or any further compensation. Im mindful that this wasnt
their primary objective in any case.
Ive also mentioned above that I dont think they wouldve done anything different even if
theyd been given the correct information. In other words, I appreciate that they opted out of 
the OSC, but the WFE fees werent something they could opt out of and it was a deduction
for a wholly different purpose which theyd have to pay through the fund going forward in any
event.
I appreciate that Mr and Mr O will be unhappy that whilst Ive reached a different conclusion
to the investigator and upheld the complaint, I still havent given them what they want. Whilst
I appreciate their frustration, Im unable to give them what they want and award more than
the £200 compensation Ive recommended.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision.
The business responded and accepted my provisional decision. In short, it said: I confirm 
that we accept the Ombudsman's decision.
Mr and Mrs O also responded and accepted my provisional decision but made a number of 
observations. In short, they said:
They wanted me to change the wording of the complaint to reflect the nature of their 
complaint better.  
They felt a lot of my references to what they wouldve (or wouldnt) have done was 
speculation, and at times unnecessary.  
They strongly feel that my final decision should include a directive to Wesleyan to list 
the WFS fee as a separate item on their annual statements and clearly describe it in 
its literature. 
Its not strictly correct that Wesleyan displayed the WFS fees in its statement 
beginning in 2019, as it lumps it in with other charges as Product and fund 
management charges. 
The businesss future plans dont hold any promise. They disagree with my decision that they havent suffered a financial loss. 
The above notwithstanding, they accept my decision for an award of compensation, 
by way of compromise. 
They are most sincerely grateful for my detailed familiarisation of their submissions in 
total and for my upholding the complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from Mr and Mrs O, my decision to 
uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for the same reasons as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
In other words, despite being given time to respond to my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that no new material points have been made that persuade me I should change my decision. 
In this instance, and on balance, Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and 
have been considered by me, above. 
As I said in my provisional decision, this case isnt just about what the WFS fee is and 
whether, or not, the business was entitled to deduct this fee  Im not persuaded that the 
business has done anything wrong by doing so, such that the complaint should be upheld on 
this basis.
This complaint is primarily about Wesleyans failure, at the point of sale (post IDD) to make
this fee reasonably clear to Mr and Mrs O before they went ahead with the investment. On
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says, I think it failed to
do so, at the point of sale and within the policy documentation.
However, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, given that it wasnt a fixed charge to
the policyholder, or a fee that they could opt out of, and given the (potential) cost versus
rewards of investing in the With Profits fund, I think its more likely than not they still wouldve
gone ahead with the investment, even if the business had made the WFS fee clear to them
at the outset.
In other words, on balance I think its unlikely that they wouldve done anything different  I
note theyre not unhappy with the investment. So, I cant say that theyre entitled to a refund
of the WFS fees paid.
However, in the circumstances, and on balance, I think the business should pay Mr and Mrs
O £200 compensation (£100 each) for the distress and inconvenience caused by the
businesss failure to make the WFS fee clear at the outset, resulting in subsequent confusion
and uncertainty lasting a relatively short period of time.
I note Mr and Mrs O arent entirely happy with the wording of my complaint summary, but its 
not something I feel I need to change, as it broadly reflects the nature of the complaint. 
In my provisional decision I said that despite what Mr and Mrs O say, I dont agree that the 
business has caused them a financial loss or taken money/made adjustments that it wasnt 
entitled to, so I dont think theyre entitled to any financial loss claimed or any further 
compensation.
I also mentioned above that I dont think they wouldve done anything different even iftheyd been given the correct information. In other words, I appreciate that they opted out of 
the OSC, but the WFE fees werent something they could opt out of and it was a deduction
for a wholly different purpose which theyd have to pay through the fund going forward in any
event.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs O feel like I was speculating about a number of issues, including 
whether or not they were happy with the investment  I was merely drawing conclusions 
based on what I thought was more likely (than not) to be the case. And despite their 
disagreement, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, on balance I still 
cant safely say that theyve suffered a financial loss. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs O dont think the businesss future plans hold any promise 
 the business will however be aware of their observations and feedback in respect of what 
they think it should do.   
Putting things right
Wesleyan Assurance Society trading as Wesleyan should pay Mr and Mrs O £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint.
Wesleyan Assurance Society trading as Wesleyan should pay Mr and Mrs O redress as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman