DRN-2913469
The complaint
Miss B complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds proposed 
settlement of her Pet Insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Red Sands have agreed to settle the claim under the terms and conditions of the 
Max Plus policy Miss B upgraded to around October 2020
The policy contains a benefit limit of £2,000 and following deductions of excess and a 
co-payment, has offered Miss B a total £1,520.80
Red Sands said their policy terms and conditions, and frequently asked questions, 
clearly confirm the policy excess and co payment are deducted from the condition 
limit
However, I dont think this goes far enough. Red Sands set out the policy covers 
£2,000 and as this is a significant part of the cover it needs to be set out clearer in 
the key fact documents 
Miss B would reasonably have expected that in return for her premiums, she was 
covered for up to £2,000 if she needed to claim. And I dont think its reasonable to 
expect her to need to look through the policy booklet to confirm whether this was 
accurate or not
Its long been our approach that the excess and co-payment should be deducted 
from the total claim amount before any policy limit is applied. In this instance, once 
those have been deducted, the outstanding claim amount is £2,369.48. So, this 
means Miss B would be entitled to claim the full £2,000 policy limit.  Red Sands has 
already made two payments to Miss B, so it will need to pay the outstanding balance 
of £479.20 to her, plus interest. I would also expect it to add interest to the second 
payment made, as this was paid later in the claim.
  
Putting things right
Red Sands says it has already paid separate payments of £720.80 and £800 to Miss B. The 
amount of £800 was paid later after Red Sands agreed to settle the claim under the new 
policy.
  
To put things right, I direct Red Sands to:
Pay Miss B the outstanding amount of £479.20
Pay Miss B 8% simple interest per annum on both the above amount and the £800 
payment, from the date the initial £720.80 settlement was made to Miss B to the 
date of payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint
I direct Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman