DRN-2567050
The complaint
Mrs M says Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank at the time) mis-sold
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold by phone when Mrs M took out a loan in 1999. 
Northern Bank says the monthly cost was £12.50 for a monthly benefit of £103 if a 
successful claim was made. The policy gave Mrs M accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that the costs and the
benefits werent made clear. If they had been clearer, then he didnt think Mrs M would have 
taken out the policy.
Northern Bank disagreed with this view, so the complaint was passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here) I have reached my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, in other words - on what I think is most likely given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Northern Bank agrees it advised Mrs M to take out the policy over the phone. So that meant 
it needed to make sure the PPI was suitable for her. And it needed to provide enough clear 
information so that Mrs M could make an informed decision about whether or not she wanted 
the policy.
Theres no call recording available so I cant know what Mrs M was told when she applied for 
the loan and the PPI. But thats not surprising or unreasonable given the sale was over 20 
years ago. Northern Bank says there would have been a structured telephone discussion 
where all aspects of the cover would have been fully explained to Mrs M. It says it has no 
doubt the adviser would have known the cost of the PPI and made Mrs M fully aware of this. 
But Northern Bank cant provide any supporting information to evidence how it carried out 
PPI phone sales in 1999  it doesnt have the sales process documented, call notes, or a 
copy of the script that the adviser would have followed. Without stronger evidence showing 
how the phone call was conducted I cant conclude that Northern Bank has shown that it 
made clear the cost and benefits of the PPI during the call - which is when Mrs M applied for 
the loan and bought the PPI.
Northern Bank cant provide Mrs Ms loan documentation but again thats not unreasonable 
as the sale was so long ago. It has provided some sample loan illustrations as well as an 
example of a credit agreement. The loan illustrations are from 2000 and 2001. The credit 
agreement is from 1996. Northern Bank says they are consistent in format and content to 
those provided to Mrs M. I have carefully looked at these forms.
The credit agreement doesnt mention the cost of the PPI or the benefit it offered. It sets out 
the cost of the loan but Ive found nothing on the form which would have allowed Mrs M to 
understand the value of the PPI to her. I understand this was sent out after the call. 
The loan illustrations provided set out quotations for loans. Again it seems this type of 
document would have been sent to Mrs M after shed already agreed to buy the PPI. At the 
bottom of the second page there is a section headed Payment Protection Plan. The cost is 
set out as a cost per £5 repayment on one sample and as a cost per £100 repayment on 
another, and the monthly premium is given. But the quotes dont set out the benefit of the 
PPI. And they dont make clear that a policyholder would need to keep paying premiums if 
they had to make a claim. So I dont agree that these documents show that Mrs M would 
have been given the cost and benefit information she needed.
I think this failure to provide clear and complete cost and benefit information would have 
mattered to Mrs M. I say this because from what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time 
she didnt have a strong need for PPI. Shes told us she was entitled to six months sick pay 
and after that six months she would have received 75% salary ongoing from her employers 
income protection scheme. So I dont think Mrs M would have thought it was worthwhile 
paying for the cost of the policy for the benefit it gave. For the same reason I dont think 
Northern Banks recommendation was right for her.
If Mrs M have been better advised and informed, I think its most likely she would have made 
a different decision. That means I think she has lost out because of the problems with this 
sale.
Putting things right
Northern Bank Limited should put Mrs M in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI.
It should:
Pay Mrs M the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Northern Bank Limited can
take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Northern Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest.
Northern Bank Limited must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one. 
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Northern Bank Limited should pay compensation as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman