DRN-4318971
The complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax blocked his Halifax and Lloyds 
accounts. Hes also unhappy about the lack of explanation provided about why his accounts 
were considered to be at risk, and about the fact that a compensation payment was paid to 
an account which wasnt his Halifax account.
What happened
Mr G holds accounts with Halifax and Lloyds. In November 2022 Mr G received a text 
message from Halifax advising that suspicious activity had been noticed on his account and 
asking him to contact them. Mr G tried to contact Halifax on the number given but was 
unsuccessful in getting through. Mr G checked his account and found no transactions which 
he didnt recognise.
Around a week later, Mr G became aware that his account wasnt working. He contacted 
Halifax and was advised that a block had been placed on the account.
Mr G complained to Halifax. He was unhappy that the block had been applied to not only his 
Halifax accounts but also to an account he held with Lloyds. Mr G was also unhappy that two 
letters hed sent to Halifax requesting that his credit card was cancelled hadnt been 
actioned.
Halifax responded and said it couldnt provide specific information about why it felt that the 
accounts had been compromised. It advised Mr G that although his Halifax and Lloyds 
accounts werent linked, they were with the same banking group (Lloyds banking group) and 
that it was common practice to block all accounts within the group in cases of potential 
compromise in order to protect the accounts. Halifax acknowledged that Mr G had 
experienced poor customer service. It upheld this part of the complaint and paid 
compensation of £100.
Mr G remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she was satisfied that Halifax had 
provided a sufficient explanation for the account restrictions. The investigator said she 
recognised that Mr G was unhappy that the compensation payment had been credited to his 
Lloyds account rather than his Halifax account but said she was satisfied that Mr G had 
received the payment.
Mr G didnt agree. He said that Halifax hadnt explained why it had paid the compensation 
payment into his Lloyds account. He also said he hadnt received an explanation as to why a 
potential compromise on his Halifax credit card account meant that his other accounts were 
at risk of compromise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the contact notes provided by Halifax. These show that Mr Gs accounts were 
blocked due to the banks security systems detecting a possible compromise. The block was 
applied to all Lloyds Banking Group products to protect Mr G from any potential fraud.
Ive looked at the final response letter. Im satisfied that this provides an adequate 
explanation as to why the accounts were blocked. I appreciate that Mr G wants more 
detailed information as to why his accounts were considered to be potentially compromised. 
Halifax has said that this is commercially sensitive information, which, if shared, would 
weaken its fraud prevention systems. This service cant ask a business to change its 
policies, but having considered the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that 
Halifaxs decision not to disclose detailed information was reasonable.
Ive looked at how Halifax treated Mr G when he contacted them to ask why his accounts 
had been blocked. Halifax has acknowledged that Mr G spoke to several different members 
of staff and that he wasnt provided with sufficient clarity as to what had happened. I 
appreciate that this mustve been a frustrating experience for Mr G. Ive thought about the 
level of compensation offered by Halifax for the poor customer service it provided to Mr G. 
Taking everything into account, I think the compensation paid was fair and reasonable, and 
in line with what this service would recommend.
Mr G has queried why the compensation was paid into his Lloyds account rather than his 
Halifax account. Halifax has said that when it was processing the compensation payment, its 
system showed all available accounts under the Lloyds Banking Group. It appears that the 
payment to Mr Gs Lloyds account (as opposed to his Halifax account) was a human error, 
with the Lloyds account being selected from the list on the system rather than the Halifax 
one. I understand that Mr G wouldve preferred to receive the compensation into his Halifax 
account. However, Im satisfied that the compensation payment was received. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Halifax has handled Mr Gs complaint fairly 
and reasonably. I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman