DRN-3767276
The complaint
The estate of Mr J has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
(Prudential) failed to settle his annuity contract into Trust, which has led to an inheritance tax 
(IHT) liability.
What happened
Mr J held a Retirement Annuity Contract (RAC) with Prudential. 
In 2012 Mr J sent Prudential a letter requesting his policys death benefits be placed into a 
Will trust hed created. Prudential acknowledged receipt of this request and replied with a 
letter dated 16 March 2012 only confirming it had updated Mr Js address.
Mr J sadly passed away on 17 September 2016. 
Mr Js estate submitted a death benefit claim under the policy and Prudential settled the 
policy with a value of around £76,000.
The funds were paid to Mrs Js bank account in her capacity as his spouse and one of the 
executors for the estate. 
Mrs J sadly also passed away on 1 August 2019.
The executors for Mr Js estate raised a complaint with Prudential because while they were 
in process of settling Mrs Js estate an inheritance tax liability arose due to the funds that 
were paid out from Mr Js policy with Prudential. 
The executors have said that Prudential shouldnt have paid the funds directly to Mrs J as 
Mr J had created a Wills Trust which they had been notified about previously. 
Prudential has acknowledged that it failed to assess the validity of the trust when Mr J 
contacted it in 2012 and only found it to be invalid in 2017 after Mr J had passed away. 
However, it noted that in 2017 no (IHT) liability was incurred due to this error as the funds 
were paid to Mrs J who was the surviving spouse. And it felt that there was sufficient time 
from when Mrs J received the funds until she passed away for her to have arranged suitable 
IHT planning to avoid any future liabilities for her estate. 
However, Prudential did offer £400 to acknowledge the impact its error in 2012 had caused 
and asked Mr Js executors to provide it with evidence to show what the inheritance liabilities 
were and how this specific pension payment was indeed the cause  for it to consider the 
matter further. 
The executors have stated that they are unable to evidence the individual pensions IHT 
charge due to Mrs Js other accounts being grouped together in the IHT calculation. And as 
no further resolution with Prudential could be reached, they brought the complaint to our 
service to consider. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and agreed that Prudential had no 
obligation to pay the policy proceeds into the trust because the policy hadnt correctly been 
placed inside the trust and Prudential didnt possess discretionary powers relating to how the 
death benefits were paid.
The executors disagreed with the investigators findings and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
I must make my decision by considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. And, in so doing, I am required to take into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what 
I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree the complaint cant be upheld.
Ive had to consider if Prudential should have paid the death benefit proceeds of Mr Js 
policy to his Will trust.
In examining this I have first considered whether or not Prudential made an error in 2017 
when it paid the proceeds of the policys benefits directly to Mrs J.
Prudential did assess the validity of the Will trust when the claim was first submitted in 2016. 
However, it found that it couldnt make payment to the trust, as the benefits listed did not 
specifically include or refer to this policy and so it was unable to find the benefits under the 
policy could be validly paid to the trust  this isnt unreasonable in my view.
Prudential also noted that as this was a S226 annuity it had no discretionary powers relating 
to how benefits could be paid and it could only pay the benefits directly to Mr Js estate. 
I am satisfied that the reasons Prudential has provided for how the benefits were settled 
were correct and I dont think it should have acted differently when processing the death 
benefit claim in 2017. 
I have also considered the impact Prudentials failure had in 2012 by not assessing the 
validity of the trust at that time. Prudential has said that had it reviewed Mr Js request as it 
should have in 2012 it would have been able to advise him that the request wasnt valid and 
he needed to take further action to secure this policy in trust. 
The executors for Mr Js estate have said that if Prudential had informed Mr J of the further 
requirements necessary to secure the policy in trust he would have taken the required 
actions and the benefits could have been paid to the trust avoiding the IHT charge which has 
now arisen.
In cases like this where one party has alleged a specific course of action would have taken 
place, but for the business error our service must consider the actions that the customer 
would have likely taken based on available evidence of previous actions and behaviours.
So while Im not discounting what the executors have said about the action Mr J would have 
taken, I cant ignore that at the time in 2012 Mr J was following the same process with two 
other businesses. Ive seen Mr J had sent the same letter requesting his policies benefits be 
placed in trust to these other businesses. But in those instances the businesses responded 
to Mr J and explained his request wasnt valid. Both advised he needed to submit further 
documentation or set up a different trust entirely, but Mr J appears to have never responded to either business nor did he take the additional steps they both suggested to proceed with 
his request to place the policies in trust. So based on this  his previous actions- I cant say 
that Prudentials failure to contact Mr J in 2012 has meant he would have indeed proceeded 
with placing this policy in trust - on the balance of probabilities it is unlikely that he would 
have taken the required action on this policy alone. 
Prudential has also correctly noted that in 2017 when it paid out the benefit to Mrs J no IHT 
charge arose as she was the surviving spouse to Mr J. And the charge only arose after 
Mrs J passed away. Again, our service has to take into account that we expect consumers to 
take steps that will mitigate any losses suffered due to a business potential error. 
And while I understand the reasons Mrs Js executors have given as to why she failed to 
take further action, I cant ignore that there was almost three years after Mr J passed in 
which she could have employed the services of a professional to help her plan and avoid this 
charge on her estate, knowing the amount her potential estate would be and charges it 
would potentially incur. 
Prudential did offer to review the matter if the executors could provide it with evidence of 
how this specific pension was the cause of the IHT charge and how much the charge was. 
Again, I dont think this is an unreasonable request, the policys value on its own would not 
indicate that a IHT charge would have necessarily applied. And even if our service had found 
that Prudentials error had meant it caused the IHT charge, before wed be able to make an 
award, wed also need to be satisfied what the cost of the error actually was. But this 
information hasnt been provided so in its absence I dont think Prudential need to do 
anything further.
Overall, therefore, I am satisfied that Prudential didnt directly cause the IHT charge and 
I disagree that it should have paid the proceeds of the death benefit into the Will trust.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman