DRN-3030894
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 2003. 
Mr J and Mr M say Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham and Gloucester at the time, (Lloyds) 
mis-sold them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, including Mr J and Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here. The 
cover was on Mr J only. Hes told us his sick pay wouldve reduced by half after six months. 
The PPI started around the time Mr J and Mr M took a further advance on an existing 
mortgage. Lloyds has told us the policy ran for two years before it was cancelled.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought Lloyds offer to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit 
share Mr J and Mr M paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr J and Mr Ms representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any 
new or additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments made previously. 
Mr J and Mr M also requested a decision and made further points, which Ive considered. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr J and Mr Ms. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr J and 
Mr Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Lloyds offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused, is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Mr J and Mr M have said the PPI was just included with their mortgage and that if theyd 
been given a choice about it they wouldve refused it because they never take a loan 
without knowing they can repay it if required  in this case using funds they had invested. 
Theyve said the PPI was sold without their knowledge or agreement  and they werent 
aware at any time that theyd signed an agreement to apply for PPI. Ive thought about all 
of this carefully.
Mr J and Mr M applied for the further advance online. From what Ive seen, it looks like 
they wouldve then got a printed copy of their application to sign. Ive seen an unsigned 
copy. It has an Insurance section which has a part that refers to PPI and says: 
If you applied for [the PPI] confirmation of your application is given at the end of this 
form. Please check the details, sign the form and return it to us. If you have chosen not 
to take [the PPI] you confirmed that you understood the consequences of not having 
protection 
Based on this, it looks as if the end part of the printed version of the loan application form 
would either include or not include an application for PPI, depending on the choice made 
during the online loan application process. The application Ive seen for Mr J and Mr M 
did include a PPI application on its end pages. This application is populated to apply for 
cover on Mr J only  saying he would be insured for 100% of the mortgage costs. 
I havent any copies of what Mr J and Mr M wouldve seen online when making their loan 
application but, as Ive noted above, the implication of the statement Ive quoted from the 
printed copy of form is that the way their form was populated reflected choices they had 
made when applying for the further advance online.
I also note Mr J and Mr M signed a declaration for the PPI, situated on the printed form 
after the PPI application, and they signed a separate direct debit to pay for the PPI. It 
looks like there was a separate declaration to sign for the mortgage loan itself. As well as 
the printed PPI application attached to the mortgage loan application, there was another 
PPI application form signed by Mr M on the same date. It has been crossed through with 
DUP DOC  indicating perhaps that this was a duplicate due to the other application.
I note that on both PPI application forms the box to opt out of marketing was ticked  
which tends to suggest Mr J and Mr M paid at least some attention to the forms before 
signing. The form attached to the mortgage application was headed Confirmation of 
your C&G Payment Protection Plus Internet Proposal  for your signature. The other 
was headed C&G Payment Protection Plus Proposal Form.  
In light of the forms Mr J and Mr M signed for the PPI and what Ive said above, while I 
give their recollections some weight what I have overall doesnt, on balance, persuade 
me that they didnt sign an application for the PPI or werent aware at the time that theyd 
done so  although given the time thats passed it wouldnt be surprising if they didnt 
recall this now. Also, the use of a separate declaration and a separate direct debit would 
I think have tended to indicate the PPI was something separate from the loan itself. Also 
the wording of the mortgage loan application suggests the PPI was something that would 
be either added to the application or not added according to Mr J and Mr Ms choice.
With all this in mind, although I dont have screens showing exactly how the PPI was 
presented, on balance what I have makes me think it more likely than not Lloyds made it 
clear Mr J and Mr M didnt have to take the PPI and they chose to take it.I note that Lloyds has told us some of its records indicate a telephone application for PPI, 
so it thinks it also spoke to Mr J and Mr M about it. Mr J and Mr M recall a discussion but 
about the mortgage loan and at a branch meeting, and they dont recall a discussion 
about PPI. None of this makes a material difference to my overall conclusions above.
Lloyds mightve recommended the PPI to Mr J and Mr M. If it did, it had to do more - so I 
think its fair to assess things on that basis. This means Lloyds had to check the PPI was 
right for Mr J and Mr M. That said, the evidence about their circumstances shows the PPI 
wasnt unsuitable for them at the time. For example, Mr J was eligible for cover and, from 
what hes told us, his work sick pay wouldve halved after six months and he was entitled 
to at least six but less than 12 months redundancy pay  so he wouldve suffered a loss 
of income were he unable to work for a longer time due to disability or unemployment. 
With this in mind, I think Mr J and Mr M had a need for the cover on Mr J  who was also 
the higher earner. Also I think the cover was affordable and nothing about Mr Js job or 
employment wouldve made it difficult for Mr J and Mr M to claim.
Mr J and Mr M have said they didnt need cover as they could repay the loan with funds 
theyd preferred to keep invested at the time. But the policy benefit would make it less 
likely theyd have to use those funds against the borrowing and, as theyve said, theyd 
chosen at the time not to use those funds to reduce or remove the need for the further 
advance. With this in mind, the existence of those invested funds doesnt make me think 
Lloyds recommendation of the cover was unsuitable.
The policy had no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems but, 
except in limited circumstances, Mr J and Mr M couldnt have claimed for work absences 
Mr J suffered if related to a health issue he knew of at the start. So its unlikely a claim 
could be made for work absences if related to the past health issues Mr Js told us about. 
But I dont think Lloyds ought to have considered Mr J so likely to suffer in future from 
those that the exclusion of related work absences made the cover not worthwhile or 
wrong for Lloyds to recommend to Mr J and Mr M, taking into account all they could still 
claim for. I say this having considered all thats been said about those health issues, 
including all Mr J has told us and how long before the sale hes said they took place. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr J and Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found they chose to take it, and I dont think they wouldve 
done so without at least a broad understanding of what was covered - so it looks to me 
like they wanted this type of cover. It wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr J and Mr M, as I 
concluded above, and it seems like it wouldve been useful for them if something went 
wrong in the circumstances it covered. Overall I dont think the cover was too dissimilar 
to what its likely Mr J and Mr M thought they were buying from the information its likely 
they were given  and, with this and all Ive said above in mind, on balance I dont think 
they wouldve declined the cover had Halifax done more.
Overall, I consider Mr J and Mr M wouldve still taken the PPI. Given their circumstances, I 
think at the time the cover couldve provided a useful benefit were Mr J to have become too 
sick to work or unable to work due to unemployment in circumstances the policy covered. I 
also think the cover was sufficiently close to what its likely Mr J and Mr M thought they were 
getting. And, in those circumstances, I think it likely they wouldve taken it in any event.Mr J and Mr Ms representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
Mr J and Mr Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr J and Mr Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr J and Mr Ms particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J and Mr M.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer, to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused, is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr J and Mr M about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in 
this case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr J and Mr M was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Lloyds didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case;
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr J and Mr M because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipredress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr J and Mr Ms representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary it has said Mr J and Mr M should get back all the money they paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr J and Mr M about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because it says 
that meant the policy was poor value, it says I should find that Mr J and Mr M wouldnt have 
taken the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr J 
and Mr M in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to them before they purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr J and Mr Ms representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr J and Mr M paid for their PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr J and 
Mr M with the policy Ive concluded above they would still have taken if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. Lloyds 
says it sent this by cheque in July 2018. If Lloyds has already paid Mr J and Mr M 
compensation on this basis, I wouldnt consider that it should do anything further. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr J and Mr Ms complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr J and Mr M an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable) - if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman