DRN-4325009
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sent a letter to the wrong address.
What happened
Mrs F initially complained about the alleged failure of Lloyds Bank to pay compensation 
awards by Ombudsman colleagues in respect of two cases. It appears that in both cases 
she rejected the compensation award, so, as our Investigator explained, it was a matter 
between her and Lloyds as to whether it would pay the suggested award. The matters are 
both closed from the point of view of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
As regards the letter being sent to the wrong address Lloyds has confirmed it was a keying 
error and only applied to one letter. It proposed compensation of £40, which Mrs F declined.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that Lloyds 
compensation offer was reasonable.
Mrs F didnt agree, and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Just to clarify, this decision concerns only Mrs Fs complaint that a letter to her was 
addressed wrongly. The other complaints are closed and we cant revisit those.
In respect of the letter, I can see this was sent to the wrong address. Lloyds has however 
confirmed that it has Mrs Fs correct address on file. Ive seen no evidence that any other 
letters were wrongly addressed. If Mrs F is concerned about a breach of the Data Protection 
Act, she should address that concern to the Information Commissioners Office.
Lloyds has offered £40, which Mrs F believes to be insufficient. This was a one off error, 
which, as far as Im aware, didnt have any ongoing consequences for Mrs F. Theres no 
indication that another party has read or seen the information in that letter. Nevertheless I 
can understand Mrs Fs anxiety. But I cant award compensation for something which might 
happen. Ive noted Mrs Fs health problems, but for this one error I think that Lloyds offer of 
£40 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mrs F the £40 offered.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £40 to settle the complaint and I think 
that offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £40.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman