DRN-2234673
The complaint
Mr B complains that Starling Bank Limited wont refund him for an ATM transaction that 
didnt dispense. 
What happened
On the 8 December 2019 Mr B attempted to withdraw $200 from a cash point in America 
owned by another provider Ill call Bank A. Mr B says he entered his card and PIN before 
receiving a message on screen informing him of the machine charge and exchange rate. 
Because of the poor exchange rate he decided to cancel the transaction, and his card was 
returned. Mr B explains waiting for around 30 seconds before leaving the ATM. 
Mr B noticed that the transaction appeared on his account but thought the money was on 
hold and would be refunded. But on returning to the UK he noticed this wasnt the case so 
complained to Starling. 
Starling raised a chargeback and contacted Bank A. Bank A contested the chargeback and 
provided evidence of the Journal Roll to show the transaction had been successful. Starling 
explained for this reason they wouldnt refund the transaction. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Starlings response so complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He asked Mr B and Starling for more information. 
Mr B provided evidence that other customers had money dispensed when theyd attempted 
to cancel the transaction and hed also contacted the ATM owner.
 
Our investigator asked Starling to provide evidence that the ATM balanced and when this 
was completed. But Starling explained they were unable to contact Bank A to obtain this 
information and could only rely on the information theyd been provided. 
Our investigator concluded that because of the lack of evidence Starling had provided 
showing the money had dispensed, and Mr Bs consistent account of events the withdrawal 
should be refunded.
 
Starling didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary they said that the Journal Roll 
shows that the money was dispensed and no issues were recorded with any of the 
transactions. 
As Starling didnt accept our investigators view its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. The information 
Starling have been provided by Bank A is quite limited and Ill be reaching my conclusions 
on the balance of probability and what I think most likely happened.
 
Firstly Ill talk about what I think happened prior to the funds being dispensed. Mr Bs 
explained that he entered his card and PIN and then on seeing the charges and exchange 
rate offered he cancelled this transaction. Mr Bs been consistent in this explanation  but Id 
find it surprising, even on seeing the evidence Mr Bs provided, if this was the case. I think 
its more likely Mr B accidentally pressed accept and this enabled the transaction to be 
processed. But I am in agreement with our investigator that Im not satisfied the evidence 
Starling have supplied shows Mr Bs money was dispensed and not retracted into the 
machine. I say this because:
-Ive seen evidence that $200 was processed by the ATM machine on the 
8 December 2019. And other transactions were carried out during that morning. 
Starling have argued this shows the money was dispensed, but Im afraid I dont 
agree with them here. Our investigator asked for evidence that the ATM machine 
balanced  in other words was there a larger amount of money in the ATM machine 
than Bank A expected, and could Mr Bs funds have been retracted or failed to 
dispense for another reason? Unfortunately this hasnt been provided. And for this 
reason Im not satisfied the evidence shows Mr Bs funds were dispensed.
 
-Mr Bs been consistent and plausible in his explanation of events. Hes explained 
making contact with the Petrol Station linked to the ATM machine and provided 
evidence of research showing other customers suffering similar problems.
 
-Mr Bs provided evidence of withdrawing $160 soon after this transaction indicating 
that he made a further attempt to take out funds after the $200 transaction wasnt 
successful. 
In summary for the reasons Ive explained above I think on balance Mr B didnt receive the 
money he attempted to withdrawn on the 8 December 2019. And therefore Starling should 
refund him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Starling Bank Limited to:
-Refund Mr B £154.92 
-Plus pay interest of 8% from the date of loss to the date of refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman