DRN-3691059
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Lendable Ltd (Lendable) irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Loan 1
Lendable provided Mr T with a loan in December 2020. The loan was for a term of 18 
months at an APR of 38.72% with monthly repayments of £142.54. The loan was repaid in 
full in October 2021.
Loan 2
Lendable provided Mr T with a loan in September 2021. The loan was for a term of 18 
months at an APR of 42.37% with monthly repayments of £235.87. The loan was repaid in 
full in June 2022.
Mr Ts complaint was reviewed by our investigator. He didnt think that Lendable had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly.
Mr T disagreed with the investigators view so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The approach taken by this service to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending is set out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ts 
complaint.
Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr T 
could afford to make the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses he also had 
to pay. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a loan after paying expenses, the lender should take into 
account the loan amount, the cost of repayments, the term of the loan and the borrowers 
credit history.
As I understand it, Lendables enquiries into Mr Ts circumstances indicated that he was 
employed and earning around £2160 per month. Mr T declared his income as being 
significantly more than this. I also understand that, prior to advancing the first and second 
loans, Lendable carried out a credit check which showed that Mr T had some existing credit 
commitments, with no history of arrears and no missed or late payments.
As there was no concerning information on Mr Ts credit file, and because the monthly 
repayments were relatively low for both the first and second loans in relation to Mr Ts 
income, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lendable to reply on the information provided. I 
think the checks which Lendable carried out were reasonable and proportionate. 
Even if Lendables checks werent reasonable, I dont think further checks wouldve stopped 
Lendable from lending. Normally, if I was concerned that checks hadnt been reasonable and 
proportionate, Id look at further information to see whether Lendable could have discovered 
something which mightve changed its lending decision. 
In this case, Mr T hasnt provided any further information  such as three months bank 
statements leading up to advancement of each loan - so I havent been able to consider his 
income and expenditure and/or other credit commitments at the time. However, based on 
the information Ive seen, it appears that Mr T repaid both of the loans early, which suggests 
that he could afford the repayments. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr T wasnt able to 
afford the loan repayments at the time when the loans were active.
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Lendable lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman