DRN-3895804
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, gave them unsuitable 
investment advice. They say they were advised to invest too much of their savings and that 
the investment didnt reflect their attitude to risk.
The complaint is brought on their behalf by a claims management company.
What happened
In October 2003, Mr and Mrs M met with a Halifax financial adviser. They were unhappy with 
the interest rate they were receiving on their bank deposits and wanted to invest a lump sum 
for the medium to long term.
Halifax recommended they invested £20,000 into a joint Personal Investment Plan (PIP) 
and £3,000 each in a mini-ISA. The ISA was invested in a corporate bond and the PIP was 
invested 50% in index linked gilts and 50% in gilt and fixed interest securities.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative complains that they were advised to invest 93% of their 
wealth in the stock market, which didnt leave them with enough cash reserves for their 
short-term needs. And that they were advised to invest in cautious risk investments, but they 
had been assessed as having a cautious to medium attitude to risk, so more shouldve been 
invested in medium risk investments.
Halifax thought the amount theyd been advised to invest was appropriate and left them with 
around £31,000 in deposit-based funds which, coupled with a monthly income surplus of 
around £500 was enough to cover any unexpected expenditure. Halifax said it was Mr and 
Mrs Ms decision not to invest in equities.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt 
conclude Halifax had given Mr and Mrs M unsuitable advice.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative asked for the complaint to be decided by an ombudsman. But 
it didnt provide any new information or comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
The fact find records that Mr and Mrs M had a total of £32,000 held in bank deposit 
accounts. The investment of £26,000 left them with a balance of around £6,000. Its clear 
from the suitability letter sent shortly after the meeting that the amount of money left on 
deposit for their immediate needs, planned and unexpected expenditure had been 
discussed. And that Mr and Mrs M agreed this was enough for their needs, bearing in mind 
their monthly income surplus. Mrs M also held around £25,000 in premium savings bonds 
which could have been quickly realised if they required extra money.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative complains that after the investment Mr and Mrs M had 93% 
of their wealth invested in the stock market, which was too much. But, from the information 
recorded at the time, I dont find this was the case. After the investment, Mr and Mrs M had 
around 60% of their wealth invested. I dont consider this to be inappropriate, taking into 
account their circumstances at the time.
Mr and Mrs M were assessed as having a cautious to medium attitude to risk. Its clear from 
the suitability letter that the advisor explained they would recommend some exposure to 
equities. But, whilst Mr and Mrs M wanted to achieve a higher return than their bank deposit 
account, they were also concerned that their existing shares had decreased in price. They 
made it clear they didnt want to increase their equity investment. Taking this into 
consideration, Halifax recommended the ISAs were invested in a corporate bond, and the 
PIP was invested in gilts and fixed interest securities. Im satisfied this was suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Ms needs and circumstances.
Overall, I think Halifax treated Mr and Mrs M fairly and I dont find the advice it gave was 
unsuitable, based on their circumstances and objectives at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman