DRN-3253970
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly
when it approved her loan. Mrs S also complains that Tesco Bank refused partial settlement
offers despite being aware shes in financial difficulties.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In October 2014 Mrs S applied for a loan of £24,990 over a 10 year term with Tesco Bank, in 
part to repay an existing loan. Mrs S gave her income as £2,600 a month but didnt declare 
any rent or mortgage. Living expenses of £320 were also given and Tesco Bank used a 
figure of £761 for existing loan repayments. Tesco says it assessed Mrs S as having around 
£1,230 surplus income once her expenses were paid.
The loan was approved and Mrs S maintained payments until 2017. Mrs S has told us she 
was reliant on borrowing and her total borrowings reached around £80,000. Mrs S has 
explained she suffered ill health which has impacted her income. Due to arrears, the loan 
was closed and a default recorded on Mrs S credit file.
Following advice from a third party debt service Mrs S has told us she contacted her 
creditors, which largely agreed to write the debts off. Mrs S says family members have 
helped maintain payments. Mrs S has told us shes asked Tesco Bank to accept various 
partial settlements but its refused.
Mrs S complained but Tesco Bank didnt agree it had made any errors. Tesco Bank offered 
Mrs S £50 for delays in dealing with her complaint. Mrs S referred her case to this service 
and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Tesco Bank had lent irresponsibly and 
upheld Mrs S complaint. Tesco Bank asked to appeal, so Mrs S complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional decision because whilst I agree with the 
investigator that Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly, they didnt comment on the other part of Mrs 
S complaint in their findings. As Mrs S has complained about both the decision to lend and 
Tesco Banks refusal to accept a partial settlement, I need to comment on both points. As we 
havent previously given a view on this issue, Im issuing a provisional decision to allow all 
parties to respond. Im going to talk about the decision to lend first.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Tesco Bank had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mrs S could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various 
factors like:
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement
- The costs of the credit; and
- The consumers individual circumstances.
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. In this case, 
Tesco Bank says it took account of the information Mrs S gave in her application along with 
details found on her credit file.
In my view, Tesco Banks checks didnt go far enough. Mrs S applied to borrow £24,990 over 
a term of ten years. Given the amount Mrs S wanted to borrow and length of the term, Tesco 
Bank needed to be sure she could repay it sustainably. I note the application includes living 
costs of £320, but thats a reasonably low sum. I think its important to note Mrs S gave no 
rent or mortgage figure either. I dont think it was realistic for Tesco Bank to accept Mrs S 
only living expenses for a ten year period would be £320 with no rent or mortgage 
commitment. Given the amount and term and lack of realistic long term living expenses, I 
think Tesco Bank shouldve assured itself Mrs S could afford repayments for the whole term. 
To that end, I think Tesco Bank shouldve carried out more comprehensive checks.
Mrs S sent us bank statements from around the time she applied for the loan. Ive looked at 
the outgoings and can see they were substantially higher than noted in the application. 
Taking all Mrs S outgoings for regular bills and credit into account, they appear to have 
been between £1,500 and £2,000. That doesnt take into account any normal day to day 
spending. Mrs S income was between £1,990 and £2,200 but not in line with the £2,600 
figure noted in the application.
If Tesco Bank had completed better checks, I think it wouldve been clear that Mrs S was 
unable to support further borrowing in the long term - I dont think it wouldve approved the 
loan application. I agree Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly in this case. As a result, I intend to 
uphold Mrs S complaint and tell Tesco Bank to refund all the interest, fees and charges 
applied to Mrs S loan from inception. I dont think its fair for Tesco Bank to report adverse 
information in relation to a loan that was lent irresponsibly, so I also intend to tell it to remove 
all adverse information reported.
Mrs S has also complaint that Tesco Bank refused partial settlements, despite other 
businesses agreeing to write off debts. I can see Mrs S circumstances have changed and 
that she has asked Tesco Bank for help. But I dont agree Tesco Bank has acted unfairly by 
declining Mrs S partial settlement offers. Whilst lenders are required to treat customers in 
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically, that doesnt mean Tesco Bank has to 
accept partial settlement offers.
Ive looked at how Tesco Bank has handled Mrs S account. I note its accepted repayments 
of £1 a month over a reasonably long period. Tesco Bank has also asked Mrs S to provide 
details of her income and outgoings as well as medical evidence to support what shes told it 
about her health. Further, Tesco Bank has confirmed it will keep discussing affordable 
repayment options with Mrs S to ensure she isnt making unaffordable repayments. I 
appreciate these are all sensitive subjects, but I think Tesco Banks requests are reasonable 
in the circumstances.Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I havent found anything that shows Tesco Bank has 
treated her unfairly. I understand Mrs S distress concerning the outstanding balance, but Im 
satisfied Tesco Bank has treated her positively and sympathetically in agreeing to accept 
reduced repayments and review her circumstances.
Tesco Bank also offered Mrs S £50 for delays in responding to her concerns. I think thats 
fair in the circumstances.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or points they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision. Mrs S responded and confirmed she accepted. We 
didnt hear back from Tesco Bank. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mrs S complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons.     
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Tesco Finance PLC trading as Tesco 
Bank to settle as follows: 
- Refund all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from inception to closure
- If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, 
Tesco Bank should continue to review Mrs S circumstances and explore a 
suitable and affordable repayment plan
- If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement
- Amend Mrs S credit file to remove all adverse information recorded about the loan
- Pay Mrs S £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman