DRN-2918050
The complaint
 Mrs M complains that Arval UK Limited didnt make her aware of the charge it would impose 
to replace a damaged windscreen.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I have some sympathy with Mrs M and her presumption that the repair to the windscreen 
would be carried out without charge. However, after due deliberation I have concluded that 
she should bear some of the cost and the offer by Arval of a 50% reduction is fair.
Her agreement details the fact that glass repairs are not covered and she will be liable to pay 
the cost. It would have been better had Arval told her that at the time she called. I say Arval, 
despite the call being routed by Arval to an agent which dealt with glass repairs. The agent 
was unaware of the terms of Mrs Ms agreement and was unable to tell her what the cost 
might be. However, Arval is responsible for the handling of the call despite it being 
outsourced.  
It seems that Mrs M was unaware that she was not dealing directly with Arval but had been 
transferred to an agent and presumed she would be told about the potential cost. However, it 
seems she didnt raise the issue of the cost. Had she done so and had she not been given 
an appropriate answer I may well have reached a different conclusion. However, as she 
didnt I cannot say that Arval was wrong not to have told her of the potential cost. 
I appreciate she could have claimed in her insurance and paid an excess of £75 though I 
cannot say if a claim would have had an impact on future premiums. Of course, not all 
insurance policies have windscreen cover and Arval wasnt to know what cover she had. 
In conclusion, Arval had told Mrs M that she would have to pay for the repair in the 
agreement documents, but it didnt remind her of this when she called. Mrs M didnt pick up 
on the terms of the agreement she signed and relied solely on Arval to advise her. 
Therefore, it seems only reasonable that the cost be split.
Putting things right
 The cost should be shared equally. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Arval UK Limited to forgo 50% of 
the cost of repairing the windscreen.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman