DRN-3735985
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC decided at a late stage that it would no 
longer offer them a mortgage, because they were trying to buy a property from a company 
they owned. But Mr and Mrs A said that Barclays had known about that from the start. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A applied to Barclays for a mortgage. They said they were clear from the outset 
that they were buying the house from their own company. They had a buy to let property 
owned by a company, which they in turn owned. They wanted to buy the house so they 
owned it directly. The application was going through, and Mr and Mrs A supplied further 
details, but they said Barclays then suddenly decided not to lend to them after all, because 
they were buying the house from their company, which Barclays had known from the start. 
Mr and Mrs A wanted Barclays to honour its initial offer. But if it wouldnt do that, they 
wanted it to pay the costs theyd incurred. They told Barclays these included £450 in 
accountants costs, around £1,200 in solicitors fees, and the costs of persuading their 
existing tenant to stay, after they had asked him to move out.
Barclays said this application should have been refused at a much earlier stage. It offered 
£200 in compensation, and £500 to cover Mr and Mrs As costs, but it wouldnt pay any more 
than this. 
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He felt that an offer shouldnt have 
been issued, because reasons for the application to be declined were known early in the 
application process. And it was reasonable to assume that an expectation was created by 
what Barclays had done. So our investigator could understand how this would result in 
expenses being incurred.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had to pay the costs of Mr and Mrs As accountant, or 
the costs they said theyd incurred in persuading their tenant to stay, because Mr and Mrs A 
hadnt been able to fully evidence those. But Mr and Mrs A had provided considerable 
evidence of £1,240 in solicitors costs, so our investigator thought Barclays should pay that. 
Our investigator thought Barclays offer of £200 in compensation fairly reflected the impact of 
this issue on Mr and Mrs A. He didnt think Barclays had to cover the costs of a more 
expensive mortgage, because no further application had been made, and given the details of 
the mortgage it wasnt certain an application would be accepted by another lender.
Barclays agreed to make this payment, but Mr A replied on behalf of himself and Mrs A, to 
say they didnt agree. They didnt say why. They did ask for their complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Like our investigator, I think its very likely that Mr and Mrs A will have incurred some costs, 
due to their mortgage offer being withdrawn at a late stage. So Ive thought about what its 
fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to pay.
Mr and Mrs A have provided an accountants invoice, but it doesnt specify what the work 
was for. Mr As accountant has since contacted us and said this was for work done in 
supporting Mr As mortgage application. However, Mr and Mrs A havent been able to show 
us payments of this amount being sent to an accountant. And this sort of cost isnt always 
part of a mortgage application. It does seem to me that at least some of the information that 
Mr and Mrs A may have used to support a mortgage application is also likely to have been 
work that they would need to commission in any event. 
Similarly, Mr and Mrs A have not been able to evidence the costs they say they incurred in 
persuading their existing tenant to stay in the property. 
For those reasons, I agreed with our investigator that its less clear that these costs were 
incurred, and were entirely attributable to Barclayss mistake. For that reason, I dont think 
Barclays has to reimburse these costs. 
But Mr and Mrs A have shown they made the following payments to a solicitor -
29 March for £700
21 June for £450
24 June for £90. 
Although these payments predate Mr and Mrs As application to Barclays, their solicitor has 
confirmed to us expressly that this money was used toward the legal fees for purchase of 
this property. So I think Barclays should refund these costs to Mr and Mrs A.
I dont think its reasonable to ask Barclays to reinstate this mortgage. Barclays has also 
noted that it had become concerned about whether Mr And Mrs A could afford the 
repayments, and for that reason, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to both sides to 
insist that Barclays lends Mr and Mrs A the money they wanted. 
Mr A suggested that alternatively Barclays should be asked to cover the costs of a mortgage 
obtained elsewhere, as rates had now risen. But as our investigator noted, Mr and Mrs A 
havent yet secured a mortgage, and I agree with him that it seems likely this is because of 
the particular circumstances of their purchase. I dont think Barclays is responsible for this 
further delay in securing the lending they wanted, and I dont think it has to pay additional 
costs due to rising interest rates in the meantime, if they are able to get a mortgage in future. 
Ive asked Barclays to pay some costs I think were incurred as a result of its late decision not 
to lend. But I also think that this application put Mr and Mrs A to some trouble, and then 
caused some upset when it was withdrawn. Barclays has offered £200 to cover the distress 
and inconvenience that this matter caused to Mr and Mrs A, and Im satisfied that this 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to that part of their complaint. It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs A accepted Barclays lower offer of payment, but Ill allow 
Barclays to count any payment it has already made to them for this complaint, in case they 
changed their minds about this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs A £1,240 to cover 
solicitors costs, and £200 in compensation. Barclays Bank UK PLC can count towards that 
amount any payment it has already made to Mr and Mrs A for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman