DRN-4136951
The complaint
Mrs C complains about how Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited settled a claim under a life 
insurance policy she held with the late Mr C. 
What happened
When Mr C sadly passed away Mrs C made a claim on their life insurance policy. Aviva 
agreed the claim however the amount was around £30,000 less than Mrs C was expecting to 
receive. 
Aviva said the sum assured had changed when Mr C amended some details on the policy 
after it was taken out. They said this was confirmed in the policy documents provided to 
Mr and Mrs C after the changes had been made. Also there had been other letters sent 
confirming the sum assured. 
Mrs C said that Aviva didnt do enough to let Mr C know about the change in the sum 
assured in the telephone call when some details were changed. Aviva said there was no 
mention of the sum assured in the telephone call, but confirmed the amount was in all the 
follow up documentation.
Remaining unhappy Mrs C brought the complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought the documentation from Aviva was 
clear about the sum assured so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs C disagreed and because an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This has understandably been a difficult time for Mrs C after Mr C suddenly passed away. 
Dealing with the policy issue has added stress and worry at an already emotional time.
A lot of information has been provided about this complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
Mrs C feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs C that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised 
some of the things that happened which reflects the informal nature of our service and no 
offence is intended.
All parties agree that the change in sum assured wasnt mentioned in the phone call Mr C 
had with Aviva. So Ive also considered the wider context of what happened with the policy.
The policy was taken out through a third party and not directly with Aviva who say it was 
chosen based on the premium amount rather than the sum assured. Mr and Mrs C were 
sent policy documents which they checked and saw there were some errors with the details 
for Mr C. This is why Mr C phoned Aviva.
After the phone call with Aviva Mr and Mrs C were sent a new set of documents. The 
confirmation of change letter provided a new policy number and said Its really important 
you check through this document to make sure the information shown is correct.  
Aviva provided details of the new policy with a welcome letter which said Please check your 
policy schedule and Personal Details Confirmation .. . The Offer acceptance document sent 
as part of the welcome pack showed a sum assured of £60,208. 
The policy had an increasing cover option. This means that each year Aviva wrote to say the 
sum assured was increasing as well as the monthly premium. Ive seen copies of these 
letters from 2019, 2021 and 2022 which show the sum assured increasing several thousand 
pounds each year from a starting point of around £60,000.
Whilst the sum assured wasnt mentioned in the telephone call, and all parties probably 
agree it wouldve been more helpful if it was, I think Aviva made Mr and Mrs C aware of the 
amount of cover on several occasions and asked them to check the details. Mr and Mrs C 
checked the details on the first set of documents as thats when they noticed the original 
problems. And on more than one occasion Aviva asked Mr and Mrs C to check the details 
again. 
Aviva didnt hear from Mr and Mrs C and so fairly assumed they were happy with the policy 
after the changes were made. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Aviva administered the 
policy and the claim in a fair and reasonable way. The sum assured paid for the claim was 
the correct amount under the policy that the premiums were paying for. 
What happened did cause Mrs C some distress and inconvenience and our Investigator 
recommended Aviva Pay £100 for this. Taking everything into account Im satisfied £100 is a 
fair and reasonable payment for the trouble caused. 
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay Mrs C £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
of what happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should take the action Ive outlined above and pay Mrs C 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman