DRN-2735889
The complaint
Mr and Ms P complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2005 with a mortgage.
The policy provided cover for Mr and Ms P if they couldnt work because of accident,
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. Ms P didnt have six months
continuous employment when the policy was sold. So the adjudicator considered it might
have been difficult for her to make a successful unemployment claim on the policy. She
didnt consider Nationwide wouldve made this clear to Mr and Ms P when the policy was
sold.
Nationwide disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint was passed
to me for review.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 15 February 2021 and said that I didnt 
intend to uphold it. Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
When the policy was sold, Ms P had been in her job for three months. As she didnt 
have six months continuous employment, the adjudicator considered it might have 
been difficult for her to make a successful unemployment claim on the policy.
Id thought carefully about the relevant provisions of the policy which say:
SECTION 2  UNEMPLOYMENT COVER
We will not pay the monthly benefit for any period of unemployment:
c) which has not been immediately preceded by at least 6 consecutive months of
employment.
Note: Exclusion (c) only applies for 12 months after the cover under this section
commences.
My understanding was that this meant Ms P wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful unemployment claim if shed been made redundant within the first three 
months of the policy being in place. After that, shed have had the required six 
months employment, and wouldve been able to claim.
I couldnt be sure that Nationwide pointed this out to Mr and Ms P. But I was mindful 
that the mortgage was a long term commitment. Even if Nationwide had pointed out 
the unemployment issue to Mr and Ms P, I thought it was unlikely it wouldve 
changed their decision to buy the policy. Thats because I thought they wouldve 
concluded that even if Ms P couldnt claim within the first few months of the policy, 
there were many more years of the remaining mortgage term when the policy 
couldve been useful to her.
The re-mortgage application set out details of the PPI, and Id seen nothing to 
suggest that Nationwide didnt make it clear to Mr and Ms P that the policy was 
optional. So I thought they wouldve realised they had a choice about buying the 
cover.
I couldnt be sure that the policy cost was made clear to Mr and Ms P before they 
agreed to buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
So I thought it was unlikely they would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
I didnt think Nationwide advised Mr and Ms P on whether or not to take the PPI. So it
wouldnt have had to check whether their existing arrangements meant the policy 
was suitable for them. But even if Nationwide had given them advice, Mr and Ms Ps
circumstances didnt suggest to me that the policy was unsuitable for them.
Overall, I thought Mr and Ms P agreed to take out the cover, knowing they didnt 
have to. And given it provided broadly what I thought they expected when they 
agreed to it, I didnt think they would have made a different decision (and decided 
against taking it out) if they had been better informed.
Mr and Mrs P didnt respond to my provisional findings.
Nationwide said it didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Ms Ps case.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman