DRN-3025757
Complaint
Mrs F has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to 
her current account. Shes said the charges added caused her financial hardship.
Background
Mrs Fs complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She didnt think that HSBC had 
done anything wrong as Mrs F hadnt said she was in financial difficulty and the charges 
were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So she didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. Mrs F disagreed with the investigator and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Fs
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCS charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs F if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs Fs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mrs F was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where HSBC didnt treat Mrs F fairly and reasonably. 
Ive looked through Mrs Fs statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
HSBC ought to have been aware that Mrs F might have been struggling during the period 
weve looked at. As far as I can see the charges on Mrs Fs account were incurred 
sporadically, which on its own wouldnt typically be a concern. 
Equally, while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs F 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions as well as transfers to another account going from the 
account too. Id also add the amount being credited to Mrs Fs account each month didnt in 
itself indicate that she might have been struggling either.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mrs F wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted HSBC to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances 
and in the absence of being told anything by Mrs F, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I dont think HSBC unfairly 
charged Mrs F in circumstances where it ought to have realised that she may have been 
experiencing financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that HSBC needs to refund any interest, fees and charges 
and Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for 
Mrs F  especially as she has been waiting sometime for this decision. But I hope shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman