DRN-2928326
The complaint
Ms D complains Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has incorrectly defined a claim shes 
made on her buildings insurance policy as subsidence.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive only provided a 
summary here:
Ms D had a buildings insurance policy underwritten by RSA
She contacted RSA in 2017 and 2018 when she noticed damage to her property
RSA recorded the first of these issues on The Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) as a claim for accidental damage but later provided Ms D with assurance 
references to it would be removed as it said it was recorded in error
The second issue was investigated by one of RSAs agents and it was concluded 
there was no subsidence and the likely cause was thermal movement which wasnt 
covered by the policy so no further action was taken
A subsidence claim was recorded on CUE detailing the £325 paid by RSA to the 
surveyor to investigate the potential subsidence 
Subsequently, Ms D took out a policy with another insurer and sometime after it got 
in contact to explain it was voiding the policy as she hadnt disclosed the previous 
claims which were recorded on CUE
Because of this, Ms D reluctantly took out a new policy with RSA but this cost her 
more than she had paid with the other insurer
Ms D complained to RSA and it apologised it hadnt removed reference to the 
accidental damage issue in 2017 but said it had correctly recorded the suspected 
subsidence issue in line with insurance company best practice
It acknowledged it had inconvenienced Ms D and paid her £127 which was the 
difference between the cost of the two policies
Ms D was still unhappy that a subsidence claim remained on her CUE record and 
with the stress she had experienced trying to resolve the issue
Our investigator agreed with Ms D that the CUE record shouldnt refer to subsidence 
as she considered this misleading. She also said RSA should pay Ms D £100 for the 
trouble and upset it had caused her
Ms D asked an ombudsman to make a decision
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Ms D says she knows how CUE works but I consider it important to explain 
what its for and the obligations it places on insurers.
CUE is a database used by insurers to identify misrepresentation and prevent fraud. Insurers 
that are signed up to CUE  including RSA - are required to make a record of any incident 
they are made aware of whether they lead to claims or not. They are also required to record 
any amounts they pay out in relation to a claim, whether accepted by the insurer or not.
Ill be mindful of this when considering this complaint while keeping in mind what I consider 
to be fair and reasonable to both parties.
The incident in 2017
RSA recorded an accidental damage claim following the reported issue in 2017. It said it 
had recorded this incorrectly and would arrange for it to be removed but it didnt. 
This meant Ms D had to remind it to do this several times but it still took some time to do 
this. I think this was an unreasonable amount of time and I understand why this caused 
Ms D trouble and upset. This will be reflected in the award I make.
The incident in 2018
Ms D says she would like reference to the incident removed from CUE. For the reasons Ive 
explained above, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to direct RSA to do this given 
that its obliged to accurately record incidences and expenses incurred.
Ms D then says if removing it isnt possible, she thinks it should be reclassified, removing 
reference to subsidence. RSA has now agreed to amend the classification to other and as 
this is what Ms D wanted I see no reason to consider this point any further.
The cancelation of the other policy
Ive not seen anything which leads me to conclude that the reference to a subsidence claim 
specifically was the reason the other insurer voided the policy. Ms D says it was because 
she hadnt disclosed a previous claim. 
I acknowledge here that RSA hadnt removed reference to the 2017 incident as it had 
promised to and so Ms D may have reasonably thought there was no need to disclose it.
But Im mindful the 2018 claim was correctly recorded on CUE but wasnt disclosed by Ms D. 
So even if RSA had removed the 2017 incident it seems to me likely the other insurer would 
have still voided the policy because of the undisclosed 2018 incident.
Its possible Ms D wasnt aware shed have to disclose this second incident as it wasnt a 
successful claim. But the requirement to make this disclosure would be dependent on the 
questions asked by the other insurer when she took out the other policy. So this isnt 
something I can consider here  nor something Id hold RSA responsible for.
So, while I empathise with Ms D, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me RSAs 
actions alone led to the cancellation of the other policy.
Putting things right
RSA refunded the difference between the cost of the two policies which seems to me to be 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive thought about this very carefully about this and Ive concluded that RSA should pay 
Ms D £100 for failing to remove reference to the incident in 2017 and for the trouble and 
upset this caused Ms D. I realise this is less than she thinks she deserves but Im satisfied 
its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
 My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc trading as More Th>n to pay Ms D £100 for the trouble and upset it caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman