DRN-2849747
The complaint
Miss G complains that Novia Financial Plc set up regular income payments from her 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) without her authority. And she complains that Novia 
failed to cancel those income payments when she instructed it to do so.
What happened
Miss G transferred pension savings from an occupational pension scheme into a SIPP 
administered by Novia in December 2016. She was provided with advice on that transaction 
by an advisor firm that I will call F. Following the transfer F instructed Novia, on behalf of 
Miss G, to pay her the maximum pension commencement lump sum (PCLS), generally 
known as tax free cash.
But the form that F completed to open to SPP failed to note that Miss G also wanted to 
receive an additional income payment from her pension savings at the same time. F advised 
Novia that this payment was required urgently by Miss G, and she also contacted Novia by 
email at that time. So, Novia agreed to accept the instruction from F without Miss Gs 
signature. And it later agreed to vary the amount that was being withdrawn  the advisor had 
originally requested a gross amount, whereas it should have been net of tax.
F requested, on Miss Gs behalf, that an ad-hoc income payment be made in May 2017. But 
the form that was originally submitted by F to Novia in December 2016 requested that 
income payment to be made annually. So a further payment was made the following year, in 
December 2017. In December 2018, Novia requested that F liquidate some of Miss Gs 
pension investments before it made that years income payment.
In July 2019 Miss G got in touch with Novia. She appears to have been trying, 
unsuccessfully to speak with F. But around that time she says she discovered that the two 
additional annual income payments had been made leaving her pension savings depleted. 
Miss G spoke with Novia on the phone on a number of occasions asking to both stop the 
commission payments being made to F, and cancel the annual income payments being 
made. Part of Miss Gs complaint relates to those calls and so I will deal with them in more 
detail later in this decision.
Novia says that it told Miss G that she would need to request the cessation of the annual 
income payments in writing. It says that Miss G failed to do that, so it paid a further income 
payment to Miss G in December 2019. Following that payment being made Miss G 
complained to Novia and asked that the payment be reversed. Novia explained that it didnt 
consider it had made the payment in error. So, under HMRC rules, it wasnt allowed to 
reverse the payment. Unhappy with that response, Miss G brought her complaint to this 
Service.
Miss Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that it had 
been reasonable for Novia to seek confirmation of Miss Gs instructions in writing. As he 
couldnt see that confirmation had been sent by Miss G, he didnt think Novia had been 
wrong to make the income payment to Miss G in December 2019. So he didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
Miss G didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Miss G and by Novia. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It seems clear to me that there have been difficulties in the relationship between Miss G and 
her financial advisor. But those problems havent been caused by the actions of Novia  
Novia has simply acted in good faith on the instructions it received from the financial advisor. 
I understand that the financial advisor has now entered liquidation, so Miss Gs complaint 
about its actions will be considered by the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS). So I wont be commenting any further in this decision about what 
happened between Miss G and her financial advisor.
Novia initially received the transfer of Miss Gs pension savings in December 2016. It 
immediately paid her the PCLS that she was entitled to receive. But the same day Novia 
received an email from F asking that an income payment also be made. F sent the required 
form to Novia, but incorrectly stated the amount that should be paid. Following further email 
discussions F amended that amount, and the correct payment was made to Miss G in a 
supplementary payment run on 20 December.
There seem to be no problems with Novias actions in December 2016. It made the 
payments to Miss G that she was expecting. So although Miss G wasnt asked to sign the 
income payment form  given the time pressures that were in place to make the payment 
before the end of the year  I dont think that Novia treated Miss G unfairly or the payment it 
made to her was unauthorised.
But Miss G not signing the form means that she wasnt aware of its contents. I have no way 
of knowing what she discussed and agreed with F when the income payment was set up  
that is no doubt something that the FSCS will need to consider. But Miss G says that she 
was expecting the income payment to be a one-off, whereas the form that F submitted was 
for a regular annual payment to be made.
So, in line with that instruction, Novia made further annual income payments to Miss G in 
December 2017 and 2018. It does appear that those payments were received by Miss G, but 
it seems they were sent to an account that she didnt regularly monitor. So, given some 
health problems she was also experiencing at that time, Miss G says that she was unaware 
that the income had been paid to her. I can see that Novia also issued annual payslips and P60 documents to Miss G, that were sent to her address at that time. But Miss G says they 
werent received, so she was unaware that the annual payments had continued.
But, since I dont think that it would be reasonable for Novia to be aware that the form that 
had been submitted by F was incorrect, and since Miss G hadnt queried the income 
payments that had been made, I dont think that it would be reasonable to conclude that 
Novia did anything wrong by making the annual payments in 2017 and 2018 either.
Miss G did become aware of the problem in the middle of 2019. And she discussed the issue 
with Novia over a series of phone calls in July, August and September 2019. Miss G doesnt 
think that we have received copies of all of the calls that she had with Novia. But I am 
persuaded that Novia has carefully searched its records and provided us with recordings of 
all the calls it made and received from the phone number it holds for Miss G. And the 
completeness of those recordings also appears to be supported by the notes that it holds on 
its systems of what was discussed on the phone calls it had. So I think it reasonable to base 
my decision on the phone calls that have been supplied by Novia.
I think the most relevant calls to Miss Gs complaint took place on 9 July. It is on those calls 
that Miss G sought Novias help to both end the monthly commission payments that were 
being made to F, and cancel the annual income payment that was next due to be made in 
December. Clearly, given the more frequent nature of the commission payments that would 
have been of the greater urgency to resolve.
On both calls, Miss G was reassured that she would be able to stop the commission being 
paid to F, and end the annual income payment. But she was told that Novia would need 
confirmation of her instructions in writing. And I can see that, immediately following the 
second call, that Novia sent Miss G an email providing a form to complete to stop the advisor 
commission being paid and confirming that she needed to send an instruction in writing to 
cease the annual income payments.
On a call around a week later, Novia agreed that if she preferred Miss G could instruct it to 
cease payments to F by just sending a letter  it told her that she didnt need to complete the 
form it had sent. But, importantly, it did still require something in writing from Miss G. 
It is up to Novia to decide the way it wishes to conduct its business, and that is not 
something that this Service would normally interfere with. It is entirely reasonable that a 
business would want instructions, to either start or cease payments, to be given in writing. 
Doing so reduces the chances of a misunderstanding, and provides a clear audit trail of 
when an instruction was given. So I dont think it was unfair for Novia to ask Miss G to 
confirm her instructions in writing, either by completing its forms or by her sending in a letter 
or email.
Miss G didnt give any written instruction to Novia following the phone calls and emails. So 
Novia didnt implement the instructions shed given verbally. Despite Miss Gs recollections 
I havent seen anything that makes me think Novia gave any assurances to her that those 
instructions could be given verbally or that they would be implemented without her written 
authority. So I dont think it was unreasonable of Novia to not take matters any further unless 
it heard back from Miss G.
As Miss G hadnt given written instructions to Novia the commission payments to F 
continued until the firm was liquidated. And the income payment that had been arranged for 
December 2019 was paid as scheduled. Miss G asked Novia whether the income payment 
could be reversed, but Novia explained that HMRC rules mean that such a reversal is only 
permitted when the payment has resulted from an error it has made. I share Novias 
conclusion that the income payment was correctly authorised, and so properly made. I accept that the payment was unwanted by Miss G, but I dont think that fits the HMRC 
definition of an error, and so Novia was correct in saying that it couldnt be reversed.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Miss G. But I think that Novia acted 
correctly in implementing a valid instruction provided on Miss Gs behalf by her financial 
advisor. I think Novia was clear that it needed written authority from Miss G to remove her 
financial advisor or alter the scheduled income payments. So when that written authority 
wasnt received I think Novia was correct to make the scheduled payment. I dont think that 
was an error that could be reversed under HMRCs current regulations.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Novia Financial Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman