DRN-2900901
The complaint
Mr G complains about a hard search which TSB Bank plc recorded on his credit file.
What happened
In 2019 Mr G applied to TSB for a loan. This was to buy a new car and also to consolidate 
an existing loan he had with a third party. TSB agreed to the loan in principle, but then was 
unable to process his application because Mr Gs repayments were going to be made from a 
bank account with a third party, and TSBs systems would not recognise a third party 
account which was over 15 years old. TSB accepted that this was its own error. It told Mr G 
that he could open a new bank account and then try again, but he declined to do that. So 
TSB apologised, paid Mr G £50 compensation and refunded the cost of his phone calls (£6), 
and told Mr G it would remove the search from his credit file.
Unfortunately, TSB failed to warn Mr G that it would take up to 14 days for the search to be 
removed. He applied elsewhere for a loan, and was turned down. He also says he missed 
the opportunity to sell his car for £500 more than he had expected. He complained to TSB, 
and TSB accepted that it should have told him how long it could take to update his file. TSB 
accepted that Mr G might have opened a new account and obtained a loan with TSB rather 
than waiting for 14 days, if only he had known, and so it paid him another £150. However, it 
did not reimburse him £500 for the missed car sale as there was no proof of this. Mr G 
accepted that resolution at the time.
The trouble since then has been that the search has still not been removed from Mr Gs 
credit file, after nearly two years, despite repeated requests by TSB to the credit reference 
agency (CRA) concerned. Mr G complained to our service, and our investigator upheld his 
complaint and recommended that TSB pay another £50 for the delay. After that, when the 
search still had not been removed, TSB offered to pay another £50. By this time it was 
February 2021. TSB provided evidence that it had asked the CRA to remove the search, and 
suggested that the problem must be at the CRAs end.
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I contacted the CRA directly and asked it to remove the search from Mr Gs credit file. I also 
showed it TSBs evidence that it had previously contacted the CRA about this. The CRA said 
it could find no record of any prior contact from TSB about removing the search, but it 
agreed to remove it. Mr G has since confirmed that the search has finally been removed 
from his credit file.
Even now, it is not clear whether the reason the search was not removed earlier was TSBs 
fault or the CRAs fault. But I accept that TSB asked the CRA several times to remove the 
search, so it was not for lack of trying. I do not know whether Mr G was just unlucky, or if this 
is a symptom of some wider communication issue between TSB and the CRA which might 
be affecting other customers too. They should probably investigate that further, but I do not 
think it would be productive for me to continue to investigate it, at least not in the context of 
this complaint against TSB. (We could look into it again if Mr G brings a new complaint 
against the CRA, but I do not think it would be worth keeping his TSB complaint open to 
await the outcome of that.)
Considering all the evidence I have seen, I do not think I could fairly conclude that the long 
delay has been TSBs fault. For that reason, I do not think I should increase the 
compensation in this case above what TSB has already offered  another £100, in addition 
to the £206 it has paid Mr G already.
I agree with the investigator that without evidence to corroborate the verbal offer that Mr G 
says was made to buy his car, TSB should not be required to reimburse him for the lost 
opportunity. So I think that the proposed level of compensation, which comes to £306 in 
total, is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank plc to pay Mr G £100, in 
addition to the £206 it has already paid him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman