DRN-3722451
The complaint
Mr W is complaining about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) 
sending him correspondence by post when he says hes asked them not to.
What happened
Mr W has a number of current and saving accounts with Virgin Money. Hes been receiving 
statements and letters from them in the post. He says hes asked for all his accounts to be 
paperless, so nothing should be sent to him by post. He says this has caused difficulties in 
his relationship with the other occupiers of his address.
Mr W complained to Virgin Money and they sent him their final response on 22 April 2022. 
They said that his accounts were set up as paperless, which means he will receive digital 
communications through the app or online banking - but they will still send out some 
correspondence by post, including important information about his account position. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint but didnt 
think Virgin Money had done anything wrong. She said, in summary, that Virgin Moneys app 
made it clear that some correspondence may still be sent by post even after switching to 
paperless. Virgin Money had given examples of the type of correspondence they will still 
send by post and she was satisfied the correspondence Mr W received fell into this category. 
She said Virgin Moneys records showed two of his accounts were still set to receive 
statements in the post, and the statements hed shown us he received in the post related to 
one of these accounts. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed asked for all his accounts to be paperless. So his 
complaints now been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Virgin Money have sent us a screenshot of Mr Ws accounts on the app which shows the 
accounts that are set to paperless. They explain that this means digital communications will 
be available online and not sent by post. But theyve also shown us a screenshot of the 
advice given to consumers when they switch to paperless, which says the following:
We may continue to send you some statements or documents by post. 
So I think its clear that selecting the paperless option doesnt mean that no correspondence 
will be sent by post.
Virgin Money have sent us copies of the correspondence theyve sent to Mr W by post. I can 
see theyve sent him notifications of unpaid direct debits and unauthorised overdrafts for 
three of his accounts which are marked as paperless. But I dont think theyve done anything 
wrong by sending him this correspondence by post, because they told Mr W this may 
happen. And I dont think its unreasonable for them to send these sorts of important 
notifications by post.
Mr Ws also shown us hes recently received statements in the post for one of his other 
accounts, and Virgin Money explained this was because two of his accounts are still set to 
receive correspondence (including statements) by post. I know Mr Ws told us he set these 
accounts to paperless, but Ive not seen anything else to show this is the case  these 
accounts arent showing on the list of his paperless accounts on the app, and Virgin Moneys 
records show the communication preference for these two accounts is set to post. So I dont 
think theyve made a mistake by sending Mr Ws statements for these accounts in the post.
I can see that Virgin Money have recorded that Mr W should be contacted by email as hes 
unable to speak on the phone. But I dont think this means that Virgin Money shouldnt send 
out any correspondence about the position of his accounts by post, or send statements by 
post for the accounts not currently marked as paperless.
Im sorry to learn of the difficulties Mr Ws been experiencing due to receiving post from 
Virgin Money, but I dont think theyve done anything wrong here. So Im not going to ask 
them to pay Mr W any compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman